ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 31st extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 58 and the second paragraph of Article 60 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by Mr Marijan Pojbič. I've invited the Prime Minister of the Magnificent Government to the meeting. Ms Alenko Bratušek as well as the candidates and candidates for ministers and ministers as of agenda item 1. I welcome all those present once again. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda for the 31st extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday, 15 March 2013, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals to withdraw the item from the agenda or to extend the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving to the vote. Please check the operation of your voting devices. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 63 votes against none. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 31st Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. At the end of the day, it is on the list of candidates and candidates for ministers and ministers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Pursuant to Article 112(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 229(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is mag. Alenka Bratušek proposed to the National Assembly the appointment of ministers and ministers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. She presented the list of candidates and candidates for ministers and ministers to the President of the National Assembly on 14 March 2013. The President of the Government of the National Assembly proposes that today the National Assembly appoints Dr. Uroš Čufer as Minister of Finance, Mr. Karl Viktor Erjavac as Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr. Tomaž Gantar as Minister of Health, Dr. Uroš Grilc as Minister of Culture, Mr. Igor Maher as Minister of Infrastructure and Space, Mr. Roman Jakič as Minister of Defence, Mrs. Tino Komel as Minister of State for Foreign Affairs and Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities between the Republic of Slovenia and the indigenous Slovenian National Community in neighbouring countries and between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenians around the world, Dr. Anjo Kopač Mrak as Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Dr. Jernej Pikal as Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr. Senko Plicanič as Minister of Justice, Mag. Stanka Stepišnik for Minister of Economic Development and Technology, Dr Gregor Virant for Minister of the Interior and Public Administration and Mag. Ms Dejan Jedhan as Minister for Agriculture and the Environment. In our midst, I also welcome the President of the Government of Mags. Alenko Bratušek and I give her my word for further explanation of the nomination proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u2	Your Honor! "Our anti-crisis strategy has four parts. Firstly, to restore financial stability, as it is the only way to restore consumer and business confidence. Secondly, by fiscal consolidation, restore the sustainability of public finances. Thirdly, short-term policies encourage youth employment. Fourthly, continue with structural reforms for greater competitiveness." Dear Members and Members, dear colleagues and colleagues, no, I did not quote our coalition treaty, but I have summarized four points from the European Council last week. Mr Janez Janša attended on behalf of Slovenia. That is what they said in the paper — that these four points are not contradictory but complementary. It will take some time for confidence, investment, and growth to return as soon as stability returns. But when growth returns, it will have to be a while before the positive effects of employment are known. Stability, trust, growth and positive effects – this is the shortest possible summary of our agreement on cooperation in the new government. We know that only normalisation of the political situation and stability of the financial sector can restore confidence in the urgently needed economic growth, and we know that the positive effects of growth and employment will only be demonstrated in time. Why am I starting today's presentation with the Brussels European Council? Because in the most eloquent way it says that in Slovenia we are an integral part of the European world, that we are Europe in good and bad. We are part of a great European story, but we have also been part of a great European mistake, how we will save ourselves and the world only by saving ourselves and the world. Now we must work together to find common solutions from the European problem. We've long since been alone, our world doesn't end at our borders. Examples and challenges can be found everywhere, but solutions will have to be found at home. We have them – in professional people, in good practices, in many experiences and in fresh ideas. And that's why my commitments from 15 days ago are more tangible today. Not only because the presidents of the new anti-crisis coalition have united around the priority, but mainly because we have translated priorities for each of our teams into concrete targets for each of the departments in this short period of time. It was from each partner that a number of experts participated. Therefore, the sectoral objectives are a good development of our core priorities. On this occasion, I would like to thank everyone for their serious and responsible work. Anyone missing a set of concrete measures for these purposes would be underestimating the ministerial team that I had gathered and selected at that time. They were chosen because they bring experience and concrete knowledge from the economy, banking, local level, reform efforts, universities, previous governments and also the National Assembly. Expertise is an important quality of each ministerial candidate, but it is not enough. Courage is also needed. The selected candidates and candidates showed it, and I am grateful for it. They have shown that they are willing to criticize the present government or to advise the future more than in a safe haven. I therefore rightly expect from each of them that they will be able to find and implement the most appropriate measures in order to achieve the agreed objectives. This is their task and responsibility. I don't believe in a coalition that would write down all its tasks in two weeks for one year. However, I believe in a government that has sufficient wisdom and energy to achieve its objectives. What are the priorities that will be our joint efforts for the good of Slovenia? The critical Slovenian public, citizens and citizens, will assess our work according to whether we will succeed in the following priorities. Firstly, we will allay political passions in the country by strengthening social dialogue and dialogue with civil society, professional reasoning of decisions, depoliticisation of staff and consistent involvement of the public in decision-making processes. In doing so, I expect that, with the key anti-crisis measures, the opposition will stand by us as we have supported pension reform and labour market reform. In two important areas, we have proved together that the right solutions in Slovenia can be found with reasonable support, for which I congratulate and thank my colleagues, especially Minister Visiak. Secondly, we will launch an economy with incentives for green development policy, faster deployment of infrastructure projects into the space, by facilitating employers' contributions to new jobs and first jobs and by helping small and medium-sized enterprises. Thirdly, we will consolidate public finances through rationalisation and prudent savings and as a last resort, if necessary, including by raising VAT, while budgetary planning will be carried out in cooperation with the public sector, taking into account social dialogue. It seems important to me to emphasise that we are still aware that our public finances need to be consolidated. It is also important to stress the need to draw up a real consolidation plan. You can't do everything in two years. This is now clear to all, including the most zealous advocates of savings. Fourthly, we will restore the public sector to the importance and the place in society and strengthen its development potential. Fifthly, in order to draw funds from the new EU financial perspective, we will prepare all the necessary implementing documents and the priority content will be aligned with the development strategy of Slovenia by 2020. It will also be necessary to ensure a successful conclusion to the existing financial perspective. Sixthly, accessible public health will be based on solidarity and justice and public health treasury will have to be stabilised and the Health Act clearly separates public from private. Seven, the Slovenian State Holding Act will be supplemented and corrected so that state property will not be transferred to holding and strategy-based management will be centralised. Competent and independent experts will be appointed and the revenues from the sale of at least one of the larger companies will be devoted to the start-up of the economy. For the management of assets in one place, which we have always stressed and advocated, the Slovenian State Holding is established. Eighthly, the measures to stabilise the banking system will be in line with the adopted law, which the Government will complement in accordance with the needs of practice and professional views. In implementing the measures, we will be careful to ensure that the State's exposure is as low as possible and that these measures will promote the financing of the economy and the Bank of Slovenia will be given more powers. How much more do all the partners in this project realize that the rehabilitation of our banking system is necessary, so we will continue to do so in a slightly different form. It is also or perhaps even more important that we provide fresh money to our economy. Here we are slightly different from our colleagues in the previous government, who understood that only the rehabilitation of banks would do everything. Ninthly, in order to combat economic crime and corruption, we will provide the conditions for the better work of the criminal police, the state prosecutor's office and the courts, and we will make the law governing the seizure of illegally acquired property more operational. For the tenth time, we will eliminate the backlog by applying the conditions for shortening the time limits of the trial and modernising the procedural legislation so that the proceedings are less bureaucratic. Eleventh time, through de-barbarcation, we will reduce the time limits for decision-making in administrative procedures, remove administrative obstacles to laws, regulations and administrative practices, all in order to make public administration a good and efficient service for citizens and businesses. Twelve times, we will take care of the sustainable use of natural resources by reducing environmental impacts, increasing the value of their use, banning the privatisation of natural resources that are public goods, and by maintaining rural settlements and enabling their development. Your Honor! On the website of one of the daily newspapers, people recently asked which of our priorities seemed most important to them. More than a thousand people responded, and almost 40% of them were listed as the first priority by the start of the economy and nearly 25% by the fight against corruption. People well know where to start — by creating new values and by making a more righteous arrangement of things. Financers know how important it is for both of us to have a stable, orderly and transparent public financial and banking system, but what I will do as Prime Minister of the Government is to continue to have a low percentage of awareness of how crucial the sustainable use of natural and energy resources will be every day in Slovenia. Just knowing that we are not only living for ourselves, but also for those who live with us and who are just coming after us, it is possible to seriously shape the future. Therefore, I will not continue to open the debate about what was wrong or offensive said about our programme and about my team, but I will rather discuss those policies of the future on which we will build our daily steps. The fact that we are engaged in a time-limited or self-limited mandate is not seen as a weakness, but as a great opportunity, since the only point of short-term action is that it has long-term consequences. What we're going to do tomorrow will be known in a year or two, and that's why our mission is so responsible. The Slovenian public has made two difficult demands before the new government, which we need to know together. On the one hand, there is a demand for serious economic and social transformation and the fight against corruption and, on the other hand, the earliest early elections. Within a few months, the economic and social transition is extremely difficult, virtually impossible to achieve, and some ministerial candidates have therefore given up their position rather than risked ending their mandate without noticeable results. But Slovenia no longer has the patience to build confidence in politics only on a long-term basis. Therefore, avoiding one-year verification would be far more problematic than this short mandate is required. In the Government, there are candidates and candidates who have been prepared to shoulder the burden of demanding results in the short term. This does not mean that we have lost top experts on the way. No, on the contrary, I will strive for their knowledge and their clear willingness to help us integrate into the professional councils that I will design as Prime Minister of the Government. These will not be debate clubs, but serious project groups that will cross the borders of a single department. As Prime Minister of the Government, I have this privilege to monitor the horizontal policies of several pillars and to seek and insist on their connections and intertwines. In addition to economics, there are at least three areas in which I will pay particular attention. The first is the situation of young people, both in the educational process and in the processes of first employment and the acquisition of basic conditions for the planning of young families. After all, we are the youngest government team so far – on average we are 45 years old. Other are investments in research and development, in all areas of social life – from university research institutions and innovative entrepreneurial initiatives to artistic creativity and new forms of democratic decision-making. The crisis forces us all together to look for new solutions, but if a country with incentives and investments is unable to help with their planning and initial steps, they are often left in drawers or in their heads. The third is the role of women in social life. Our time is coming. With female emancipation, we set an example for solving many social issues, since we make a difference between the benefits of both sides, not the subject of a dispute or even the conflict. This lesson is yet to be learned by already dangerously social and generation-wide Slovenia, both in family policy and in the fight against unemployment, both in accessibility to the educational process and in the enjoyment of a well-deserved pension. In order to realize our common coalition priorities, we have already reformed the government law, and for the priorities just mentioned, I will also introduce some innovations in the work of the cabinet of the Prime Minister. So let me put these two together in a joint presentation. By re-establishing the Ministry of Culture and bringing the prosecution back to justice, we have not only corrected the two obvious mistakes of the previous government, but we want to show that the rule of law and culture are the key dimensions of modern democratic society. On the one hand, people have to assume that there is a completely independent judicial branch of power, before which we are all truly equal, no one privileged and no one outside the law. On the other hand, it is precisely because of this fundamental legal certainty that an unstoppable, open and critical dialogue on all aspects of our development can take place in society. That is why we have moved the initial reference of civil society from the Ministry of Culture to the cabinet of the President of the Government, where the Secretary of State for Citizens' Initiatives will not only monitor and adopt initiatives but will have sufficient powers to help develop the best initiatives into concrete, feasible projects. It is not another open line for messages to the government, too often without an answer and without responsibility, but rather, in the light of some Scandinavian countries, for concrete government, inter-ministerial assistance in the implementation of the best initiatives. This will only be one way to re-open power to its citizens and citizens. The best way to open the door is through parliamentary elections. In this place, let me repeat the commitment I made at the first performance and which I, in the meantime, supported by three other coalition partners' signatures, have written in our agreement. I pledge that within one year I will invest in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia a confidential one and thus check the support of our government. Whoever's asking me today my determination to do this doesn't know me enough! It is true that 16 months ago we won the elections and it seemed for a moment that this coalition of ours already exists, but this time has passed irrevocably and cannot be melted twice into the same river. The mandate of the government without democratic elections is an extremely limited mandate. We're not a year ago, but it's a year ahead of us. In this year many new and old forces can be strengthened, but our governmental responsibility is elsewhere — to strengthen trust in people, to go to elections, and to be able to choose the best and to influence change for the better. This can be done with appropriate amendments to electoral legislation, and much more so with responsible and transparent work. We will not be alone in these efforts, as the recommendations of the European Parliament go to all Member States before the elections to the European Parliament next year in the direction of raising electoral participation. It is worrying that only 43% of people have voted on average throughout Europe in recent elections to the European Parliament. Less than half of them decide on the rights and duties that affect all of us. We have to change that. As of 2012, the European Parliament had adopted a resolution on the planned May elections in 2014. It calls, inter alia, for as many members of the new Commission as possible to be elected from Members of the European Parliament in order to reflect the balance between the two legislative bodies and calls on the future President of the Commission to be balanced in both genders in the next Commission. Under the new rules, the European Parliament is also responsible for the election of the President of the Commission. It is proposed by the Heads of State and Government participating in the European Council and we must take into account the results of the European parliamentary elections in our proposals. Why is my turn through the European elections? Because we share the same desire for greater participation of citizens and citizens in elections. For it, voters require stronger influence, better transparency and clearer information. One of the criteria by which the work of our government can be assessed is therefore paradoxically how many voters we will be able to attract to voters when our one-year commitment is realized. With this, honourable Members and Members, I come to the essence of my performance today. Why are we even doing this? Not because, as some of our colleagues have said, they would have kept your mandate until yesterday. Not because, as others say, they would only want to overthrow the government of John Janša. No, no, no. We are going because we believe, most strongly, that in every, even difficult historical situation, there is a possibility of a new, better. The key thing is, we're not gonna make it if we're just against it. We need to build a positive alternative to the crisis. Therefore, in the details of the coalition agreement, you will find many alternative practices, from social entrepreneurship to energy renewal, from smart use of renewable energy sources to new entrepreneurial incentives, from promoting the developmental specialisation of individual municipalities to alternative ways of resolving judicial disputes. A big mistake would be to see our limited anti-crisis mandate only as a fire extinguisher. We don't want to be firefighters, because we burned and we didn't. We want to be the one who builds, because the only way to find new solutions can help us get out of our old problems. But just as we will not be referring negatively to the outgoing government ourselves, but as we will be pursuing positive alternatives, it would be just as disastrous for all of us if people only wanted negativeism. That is why we have placed as our first priority the calming of political passions and the re-implementation of tolerant social dialogue. Even today, respectable citizens and citizens, I appeal again to him from this city – to respect his interlocutors, to give opportunities, to the principle of hope, not to pre-trust. I know there will be no peace. It can't be because it's time and the world. But in the midst of an uproar, which is a creative unrest, it is encouraging, even though heavy and tense, and in the midst of a running, anxious unrest, which is cramping and stricken, there is a difference between day and night. I will do my best to ensure that our government is a creative unrest that will not hesitate to address things with real names, but will never resort to empty speech or hate speech. Even in those days, when I was meeting with candidates and candidates for ministers or ministers, all the talks were marked by two things: we are aware of the difficulty of the situation, but we have clear goals ahead of us. Let me therefore present them to you with ministerial names in more detail. Dr. Uroš Chufer as Minister of Finance takes over the most risky position in the government, which also kept the search as long as possible. I know the budget well enough to be able to request an expert in banking here. On the one hand, if the budget deficit is reduced by rationalising public spending, it will unfortunately be increased by intervention to remedy the banking system and help the economy. This rehabilitation is our emergency and our priority. We're the only ones with economists and economists. Without this, there will simply be no stable business environment without people's trust. I expect from the Minister such consolidation of public finances that it will not reduce economic growth. I have already talked about holding, but it seems important to me once again to stress that holding will be the manager of our assets in one place and the owner of the property will remain the country. Mag. Stanko Stepišnik, as Minister for Economic Development and Technology, will take care of the greater resilience of the Slovenian economy to the effects of the economic and financial crisis. To this end, we plan a support scheme for small and medium-sized enterprises with guarantee schemes and recapitalisation funds, microfinance schemes to support innovative companies and to open new jobs, incentives to internationalise micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, facilitate employers' contributions to new jobs and first jobs. We want to reduce the procedures for confirming the necessary tender documentation for European funds from the current average of 6 to 9 months to the target of 3 months. The aim is to create new green jobs and develop those industries based on the efficient use of sustainable natural resources and our comparative advantages such as wood, geothermal energy, sea and wind. As Minister of Infrastructure and Space, Igor Maher will have to give priority to projects to revive economic growth and improve the quality of life. His ministry will therefore have to simplify administrative procedures and legislation in the energy, environmental and spatial fields in the installation of road, rail, maritime and energy facilities. Projects involving as many Slovenian suppliers as possible will take precedence over the accelerated absorption of cohesion funds. Key projects in this area are the construction of hydro power plants on Sava, the completion of the B6 project in TES, the immediate continuation of the restructuring of energy in Zasavje, the deepening of the seabed and the extension of the second, or the construction of the third pier in Luka Koper, the energy rehabilitation of buildings, wind power plants and the construction of tourist infrastructure. We want to relieve the Slovenian industry by reducing electricity prices by 10%, and we will also work to reduce natural gas prices as an important primary energy for the needs of the Slovenian industry. With the adoption of the National Programme for the Development of Public Railway Infrastructure, we will set priorities and objectives for the development of rail transport. We will find tenants or owners in built apartments by requiring at least a third of the housing fund owned by banks receiving remedial measures to be sold by the end of 2013. In doing so, we will focus on solving the housing problem of young families. As Minister of Justice, Dr. Senko Plitčanič will continue to take measures to increase the efficiency of the courts by setting measurable objectives, increasing the powers of the Presidents of the courts and their responsibilities for quality and efficient work, simplifying procedural legislation and reducing the costs of the courts by renovating the system of free legal assistance. For a more rational organisation of the judiciary, we will propose the establishment of a judicial district as a basic organisational unit. We will analyse the possibility of abolishing district courts and the possibility of gradually reducing the number of judges, strengthening their independence, expertise and efficiency. We will promote alternative dispute resolution by extending the possibility of out-of-court and judicial mediation and arbitration and simplifying the disposal of illegally acquired property. As Minister of Health, Tomaž Gantar will have to intervene in order to stabilise the public health treasury and clearly separate public health from private health by means of the Health Act. It is awaiting the establishment of a public health service network and the strengthening of healthcare at the primary level by continuing the introduction of reference and teaching outpatients. It will also have to prepare a public health strategy focusing on preventive programmes and the promotion of a healthy lifestyle and systematic measures to increase the financial sustainability of the healthcare system by amending the Health and Health Insurance Act. Dr. Gregor Virant, as Minister of the Interior and Public Administration, will have a number of challenging tasks. On internal matters, it will have to provide organisational, human and material conditions for the effective prosecution of economic crime and corruption, while police administrations and stations will have to focus more on ensuring security and not on increasing the amount of repressive measures. In the field of public administration, it is expected to remove administrative barriers and simplify the environment for the development of the economy, including the renovation of VEM physical and online points for effective support to small and micro enterprises. The introduction of targeted management and performance measurement systems, the renovation of administrative statistics and the rationalisation and optimisation of administrations through the introduction of administrative centres can improve the work of public administration as a service to citizens, and we return Slovenia to the European summit itself in the area of e-government. The commercially unnecessary real estates, whose operators are state authorities, will be transferred to the municipalities for development purposes or disposal, and will ensure financial stability for the municipalities and rationalise their operations so that they can service all financial obligations arising from legally defined activities. We will promote the specialisation of the developmental orientations of the municipalities according to natural heritage, cultural heritage, cultural landscape and geostrategic position of the region. This can significantly reduce regional differences in the development of Slovenia and will lead to national development priorities. For the functioning of the non-governmental sector, it will be necessary to amend some outdated laws and adopt a new law on non-governmental organisations which will define the concept of a non-governmental organisation and the state of operation in the public interest as the basic basis for public funding for programmes and projects. Dr. Anja Kopač Dark will also have many opportunities as Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs. Measures to reduce unemployment are certainly a key priority of its ministry. This will be achieved through the development of social entrepreneurship, the promotion of employment for vulnerable groups, young people, first-time job seekers and older people, but also through measures against the grey economy and black work, and more effective supervision of the labour market and the reform of inspection with stronger sanctions for violators of labour law. We will explore the possibility of creating a retirement fund and a temporary unemployed fund, taking into account the state of public finances and the burden on employers and employees. When the Pension and Disability Insurance Act was adopted and implemented, there was an increase in contributions in the area of voluntary pension and health insurance. The Ministry's commitment was to put in the legislative procedure the amendment of the ZPIZ, which will ensure a gradual increase in the contribution. It will also be necessary to regulate the scope of the scholarship and to draw up a resolution on family policy and to regulate personal assistance in the field of disability policy. Mag. As the future Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, Židan has as its strategic objective in agriculture an increase in the production of quality, safe and affordable food and the provision of jobs in agriculture, food production and forestry, and in environmental policy a low-carbon and natural resource for the care economy, biodiversity conservation, good environmental conditions of water and air and the reduction of the adverse effects of waste generation. Its tasks therefore include the Rural Development Programme 2014-2020, the protection of agricultural land by establishing permanently protected agricultural land and improving the management of agricultural and forestry land owned by the State, the promotion of Slovenian food and support for local food systems, and the prioritisation of the provision of food for public institutions to local care. We intend to improve the use of the forest as the richest natural resource in Slovenia and to encourage the recovery of the wood-processing industry and the establishment of the forest-forest chain. It will need to speed up the implementation of environmental infrastructure projects and draw up EU funds for these purposes, to reorganise water management more effectively, to launch flood safety projects and to speed up the procedures for the award of concessions and water licences for water use. We will plan all the development documents so that green sustainable development will be a key horizontal content of sectoral policies and measures, thus following the objectives of the European Union's general environmental action programme by 2020. As future Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Jernej Pikalo knows that the key prerequisite for the development of Slovenian society is equal opportunities for public education, so care for a quality and accessible system of education and education that will ensure an autonomous and global neutral environment and enable students to develop their skills, innovation and creativity fully. In its dialogue with the professional public, it will have to prepare a vision for the development of pre-school activities with the aim of maximising the involvement in organised forms of public pre-school education, in particular of children from socially less enabling environments and socially disadvantaged groups. We owe stable funding to higher education institutions, and from public funds we will co-finance only those programmes of private higher education institutions that fill gaps in public institutions’ programmes or provide an over-quality implementation. We will encourage a meaningful revision of the system of quality criteria for scientific research in research areas. In the field of sport, we will promote mass sport as a way of healthy life and the involvement of top athletes in programmes aimed at sports education for children and young people. The National Sport Programme in Slovenia will, inter alia, create more flexible management of sport activities in the state administration, and by amending the Sports Act, we would like to give more competence to the civil sports sphere in the management of Slovenian sport. Karl Erjavec will continue to be Foreign Minister. It will strive to maintain and upgrade excellent relations with all its neighbours, and by including the Western Balkans in Euro-Atlantic integration, the vital interest of the Republic of Slovenia will also be realized, and one of the key elements of this process must be full respect for the commitments enshrined in the Agreement on the Succession of the former SFRY. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs will, through its network of diplomatic representations and consulates and with the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia to promote entrepreneurship, innovation, development, investment and tourism, and the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, work towards a more effective enforcement of the interests of the Slovenian economy in the world. With a career diplomatic system, we will ensure that Slovenian diplomacy is further professionalised and the existing scope of the DKP network will not be reduced at the expense of the effective functioning of Slovenian foreign policy. Dr. Uroš Grilc is a candidate for the leadership of the newly established Ministry of Culture. It has excellent experience in modernising public institutions with greater responsibility for governance, governance and control, while reducing the role of the State in governance bodies. Non-governmental organisations and self-employed people in the field of culture will need to be able to ensure more equitable conditions for quality creation through structured dialogue through the provision of spatial and financial conditions for work. The national programme for culture by 2016 will define more clearly the strategy, objectives and priorities of cultural policy, time and method for their implementation, financial implications and performance indicators. The future emphasis will include cooperation between cultural and educational institutions, networking of creators and institutions, creative and cultural industries and cultural diplomacy. The National Programme for Language Policy 2012-2016 will also need to be adopted to update the media law in order to respect the autonomy of the journalistic profession and protect public interest and the right of citizens and citizens to information and access to content. In developing the defence system, Roman Jakič, a candidate for the Minister of Defence, will have to take into account the state of public finances and, within such limited frameworks, ensure the defence capacity and functioning of the system of protection against natural and other disasters and the fulfilment of international commitments under Article 5 of the North Atlantic Treaty. In such circumstances, it will have to optimise the civil and military part of the defence system, continue to professionalise the Slovenian Armed Forces, explore its capacity to implement the Strategy for the participation of the Republic of Slovenia in international operations and missions, and rationalise its capabilities with respect to arms and equipment through international defence and military cooperation. Another important task is to further strengthen volunteerism and solidarity in the system of protection against natural and other disasters. The youngest member of the Government of Tina Komel will be the Minister without a portfolio in charge of relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the indigenous Slovenian national community in neighbouring countries and between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenia around the world. On this occasion, let me say that I have not responded to any criticism of my candidates and candidates, but this time I would like to make an exception. I would like to tell previous Minister Ljudmila Novak how unacceptable and beyond all civil standards is what has been said to her about Tina Komel. In a neighbouring country, a future member of the European Union, the rule of law responded to a similar observation by a bitter man about the current minister, and this zealous man also made a public apology. That's why I'm telling you publicly that in my government we will never, but we will never judge anyone by birth, but by what he does and how he does! The work of Tina Komel will build a partnership with Slovenians in place and around the world without ideological differences, both by maintaining and developing language and cultural identity as well as economic cooperation. Special attention will be given to working with young people and to implementing a series of international treaties defining the status and rights of Slovenian minorities in substitution and actively working at bilateral level with regard to the preparation of legal acts on the status and rights of Slovenian minorities in substitution. Allow me, on this occasion, to place particular emphasis on the fact that coalition partners will respect the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the international treaties guaranteed the rights of members of the Italian and Hungarian national communities and strive to build on existing legislation in this area, in particular in terms of the transparency and effectiveness of the exercise of the rights guaranteed or the preservation and development of the identity of both national communities. Ladies and gentlemen, this is my government team, optimal at this very moment. For more information on their life and career paths, see the written presentations I submitted to the National Assembly by means of an official proposal for the distribution of resources. Over the past two days, everyone has presented themselves on competent parliamentary committees, where you have had the opportunity not only to get to know them personally, but also to learn about their in-depth reflections on the policies they will be leading in their departments. The media have also reported enough unrelentingly about everything, so today the ministers and ministers are also known to the general Slovenian public. I sincerely hope that today's vote will give them your support. We're on the team of three women, three masters and six doctors of science. We're old enough to know how the world spins, and young enough to still believe that we can change it. It only makes sense to change it for the better. If he doesn't, we better leave him alone. It would be a great honor and pride to be able to lead such a team. I'm going to work on those co-words from the last time I add one more, perhaps the hardest – consensus. Taking into account each individual, experienced and professional voice, including the political voice, and with all the consensus of the current crisis moment, I wish that we could find in the Government an encouraging consensus that will enable us to work with our defences and to carry out our responsible and difficult task together. On this occasion, let me express my desire and readiness to be able, with key solutions concerning our common future, to reach beyond the borders of the coalition and the opposition. I will strive for such solutions, not because of future coalitions, but because of the coalition for the future. The last time I swore, I thought very seriously and sincerely that I would respect constitutional order, follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. With this commitment, I have coordinated the formation of our agreement, with such a commitment in mind, I have formed a government team, and with such a commitment I come before you today with a complete government team and recommend it for your trust. We will see it as a great incentive, but we can only justify it by carefully managing our precious country, country and country, European Slovenia. It's about her and all her citizens and citizens. We're responsible for them. Dear colleagues, thank you very much for your attention and confidence. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u3	Thank you also to the President of the Government for further explanation of the nomination proposal. We are moving on to the consideration of the reports of the home work bodies, as in accordance with Article 230 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, candidates and candidates presented themselves to the competent working bodies and answered questions from members and members of committees and the Commission. You have received reports from competent working bodies with opinions. I call on Mrs Patrijo Šulin, President of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, to present the report of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u4	President, thank you for your word. Greetings to all present! On 14 March this year, the President of the Government forwarded the List of Candidates and Candidates for Ministers and Minister of Government to the President of the National Assembly. She proposed to be a candidate for the Minister of Finance, Dr. Uros Chufer. In accordance with Article 112 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the first and second paragraphs of Article 230 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Dr Uroš Cuffer presented himself to the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy on 19 March this year and responded to questions raised by members and members of the Committee. In its opening presentation, the proposed candidate for minister presented two priorities in his work, namely the start-up of the economy and the consolidation of public finances. He said that it was crucial to identify the main imbalances in the Slovenian economy. He presented his vision of four sectors in the economy, namely the population, businesses, the banking sector and the public sector. He said that the population sector as such is not problematic because the people of Slovenia are not over-indebted, as in some Member States of the European Union. Regarding the business sector, he said that Slovenian companies are very indebted, even in the summit of the Member States of the European Union. The problem is that businesses that are currently not indebted and can repay their credits do not have available loans or additional funds that could be earmarked for investment and development. They are also forced to reduce costs, which has an additional negative impact on lower investment in development. Regarding the banking system, he said that banks are not in themselves indebted in Slovenia, but have bad claims that prevent them from offering capital, which is of great importance for offering credit to companies. We need to solve the banking sector problem together with the problem of corporate over-indebtedness. Regarding the public sector, he said that it was not over-indebted but had a very poor trend of deterioration, which was not sustainable. Members and members of the committee asked some questions in the debate to the candidate for Minister Urosch Cufer, stressing the need for clear, concrete measures to get out of the crisis and to create a time dimension of the exit, the need to continue working on the bad bank and the Slovenian State holding company, the need for effective and transparent management of public property, the issue of convincing investors to invest in Slovenia or purchase Slovenian bonds, the need to achieve the target deficit for the current year, which is foreseen for approximately 3% of gross domestic product, as it is an obligation for Slovenia to adopt a new rebalancing which will reflect the state's actual economic situation and capacity, the role of fiscal rule and its introduction into the constitution for the long-term sustainability of public finances, the importance of measures in the tax area, in particular the promotion of economic activity, the necessity of measures to prevent tax evasion of the public authorities and the accountability of the tax administration. The proposed candidate for minister answered the questions raised and the members of the committee and members of the Committee on some of the issues, taking a closer look at their views, views and opinions. Regarding the bad bank, he said that the objectives of the bad bank are primarily three, namely clearing bank balance sheets, launching the economy and pursuing bad practice. He felt that it would not be possible to achieve all the objectives of this law. He said that it was not necessary to redeem the company’s claim to investigate those responsible. It also considers that the time frame for the bank to become operational is at least another year. With regard to achieving as low a deficit as possible, he said that the target of around 3% of gross domestic product due to new economic downturns is unlikely to be achieved. With regard to the implementation of the fiscal rule, he said that the entry supports the long-term implementation, since he believes that Slovenia must behave responsibly in terms of fiscal sustainability. Following the completion of the presentation of the proposed candidate, the Committee adopted the following opinion: the presentation by Dr Uroš Čufer, the candidate for the Minister of Finance, was appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u5	Thank you, too. The report of the Committee on Foreign Policy will be presented by President Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Prime Minister of the Government Mrs Alenka Bratušek! I will report on the presentation of Karl Viktor Erjavac as the candidate for the Minister for Foreign Affairs at yesterday's Foreign Policy Committee meeting. In accordance with Article 112 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the first and second paragraphs of Article 230 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a candidate for Foreign Affairs Minister Karl Viktor Erjavec was presented yesterday to the members of the Committee on Foreign Policy. In the opening presentation, the candidate presented his views on the international position of the Republic of Slovenia and on the setting up of priorities in the field of Slovenian foreign policy, stressing that it is an essential element for the continuation of the foreign policy. He stressed the values that foreign policy must aspire to. These are the right to self-determination, peaceful conflict resolution, conflict prevention, respect for human rights, the exercise of democracy and the rule of law, development and humanitarian action. It is important that the Republic of Slovenia respond quickly and act as an active partner on the basis of the above-mentioned values and legal bases. As a matter of priority, he highlighted the maintenance and strengthening of good neighbourly relations, where he said that an important agreement had been reached on the issue of Ljubljana Bank and that all the conditions for ratification of the accession treaty of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union were therefore laid down. The candidate stressed that Slovenian foreign policy supports all Western Balkan countries in their efforts to integrate into Euro-Atlantic integration. On the world of foreign ministers, he has always sought to keep the issue of enlargement of the European Union on the agenda of meetings. He continued to focus on the role of Slovenian foreign policy in strategic partnerships with the United States of America, with the Russian Federation and with countries that are becoming increasingly important economic and financial centres – Turkey, the People's Republic of China, India. As a priority country for economic diplomacy, he also mentioned Azerbaijan and Kazakhstan. He felt that economic diplomacy should be targeted, because it would only be more successful and would provide a good basis for cooperation and could have a decisive impact on the exit of the Republic of Slovenia from the economic and financial crisis. The minister's candidate also said that the collapse of the diplomatic-consular network did not bring large savings into the state budget – about EUR 2.5 million. In addition, he said that he was aware that there would be a need for careful financial management in the future, but not at the expense of the further collapse of the DKP network. In the debate, members of the Committee raised several issues relating to the external action of the Republic of Slovenia, stressed the good cooperation between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Committee so far, in particular in resolving open issues with the Republic of Croatia, and highlighted the fact that the main strategic orientations of the Slovenian foreign policy must remain the same regardless of the composition of the government. It is also important that consensus is reached on key issues and, above all, they commended the unanimous decisions taken on the Committee on strategic foreign policy issues. The Minister's candidate responded to questions raised and comments raised by members of the Committee and expressed hope for further good cooperation. Following the completion of the presentation of the proposed candidate, the Committee adopted an opinion with 12 votes in favour and 5 against that the presentation by Karl Viktor Erjavac as the candidate for the Minister for Foreign Affairs was appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u7	Thank you, too. The report of the Health Committee will be presented by the President of the Mag. Leila Hercegovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u8	Dear President, distinguished Prime Minister of the Government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Mr Tomaž Gantar, candidate for Minister of Health and current Minister, is in accordance with Article 112 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 230, first and second paragraphs, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 18. 3. 2013 presented to the Health Committee and responded to questions raised by its members. In the opening presentation, the proposed candidate for a minister first presented a few basic points of view in the field of health care and his views on the health situation in the healthcare system, which has raised a number of problems. For Slovenia, data indicate improvements in the health of the population, but we face many challenges if we look at it in more detail. Public health, prevention, and chronic non-communicable diseases are the main problems — obesity, diabetes, and cancer. In Slovenia we want to have public health, which means widely accessible, quality based on solidarity and justice. Most of the money still comes from compulsory health insurance, but the share of private funds is also increasing. The financial sustainability problem we are facing and, as a result, the economic and financial crisis has made the situation much worse and worse. We are also facing a crisis of values and problems due to corruption, which is also very much present in this area. There are also reasons: an unfair and non-stimulating payment system across the public sector, which also hampers effective work in health care, the crisis of managing and ensuring accountability and the public procurement system. We meet again and again with individual interests and lobbyists who do not want to change, because in the health field they see the possibility of earning and profit and excellent business, so far all reform legislation has not been able to change and comply with our options and needs. Total expenditure on health since 2009 is decreasing. The decrease in the prices of health services resulted in an increasing loss in hospitals. Hospitals are no longer able to remedy losses and the situation that has arisen, so stabilisation measures will have to be taken. In particular, the short-term measures are those that would ensure the flow of additional money into the health treasury and will require a health reform in the long term. Below, the candidate for the Minister of Health and the current minister outlined some possible short- and long-term measures listed in the presentation by the Prime Minister of Magi. Alenka Bratusek, so I won't repeat them. Some materials and measures are already being prepared at the Ministry, some of them in public treatment, including the primary level network, the introduction of apprenticeships, and the expanding reference clinics. There will also be an e-ordering and e-reception by the end of the year. Mr Tomaž Gantar further answered a number of questions and answered all the questions raised. In doing so, he informed the members and members of the Committee of his views, views and opinions, as well as of the proposals for action in specific areas of action within the Ministry, including the role of Minister of Health. At the end of the presentation, the Minister's candidate stressed that he would continue to support the Ministry of Health and Policy and Health in Slovenia. Following the completion of the presentation of the proposed candidate, the Committee adopted the following opinion: Mr Tomaž Gantar's presentation as a candidate for the Minister of Health was appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u9	Thank you, too. The next report is the report of the Committee on Education, Science, Culture, Sport and Youth. The report will be presented by the President of the Magi. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u10	Dearly beloved also on behalf of the Committee on Education, Science, Culture, Sport and Youth, which conducted the hearing of two candidates! The first one was introduced by Dr. Uroš Grilc, who was proposed Minister of Culture. In his opening presentation, the candidate stressed that he sees culture as a factor of development and not as a cost, and specifically committed himself to the following cultural priorities – that he will, within two months of the launch of the mandate, submit to the public debate a draft amendment to the Fundamental Law on Culture and the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture, with a view to introducing a resolution on national language policy immediately into the legislative procedure, that he will submit a draft amendment to the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage and the draft urgent amendments to the Law on Archives, in order to complete the Law on the Public Agency for the Book of the Republic of Slovenia within a period of six months, and that he will examine the need to create regional laws such as the Act on Performing Arts, the Law on Museums and Other Areas. In the debate, the debaters asked a number of questions. Among them, questions related to a public letter from the Association, which in a public letter addressed to the Commissioner, pointed out that Dr. Grilc, as Head of the Department of Culture in the Municipality of Ljubljana, had expressly neglected the position of NGOs in the field of culture in Ljubljana, that he had not been elected to the Ministry post in the dialogue with civil society, but, according to the key of client membership, but also received corruption in connection with the tenders. The question was also raised with regard to the envisaged amount of resources to promote the development of language technologies for the Slovenian language, which includes the establishment of the necessary infrastructure and the production of as freely as possible resources and tools for their use, on the basis of the consolidation of public institutions at local level, on measures to ensure the implementation of cultural programmes in relation to the decline in cultural resources, on the basis of the basic project on culture and science, on the construction of the central Slovenian library of the NUK – to extend and build laws on the provision of funds for certain urgent programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in a culture that expire this year, on the future efforts to register cultural heritage such as the entry of the Škofielski Pasijno into the list of UNESCO, on the question of the management of the public institution of RTV Slovenia, on the plurality of media reporting, on intercultural dialogue and on the production of banners for protesters and on the demonstration of films in the field of civil society, on the management of the work of the Ministry of Culture, on the Ministry of Culture and on the implementation of Culture, on the basis of Culture of Culture, on the basis of Human Resources and on the implementation of Culture of Culture, on the implementation of the implementation of the implementation of the Ministry of the implementation of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of Culture, on the Ministry of Culture of Culture and on the subject of Culture of Culture of Slovenia, on the implementation of Culture, on the construction, on the production of Culture of Culture and on the production of Culture and on the production and on the production of the production of the production of the production of Slovenia on the production of the production of the production of Culture of Culture of the production of Culture of Culture and on the status of Slovenia on the production and on the basis of the production and on the production of the status of the production of the production and on the production of the production of the production of the production of the production of the status of the production of the production of the production of the Ministry of Slovenia on the production of Slovenia on the production of the production of the European State of the production of the Ministry of Slovenia on the basis of the production of the production of the production of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of Culture of Slovenia on the production of Culture and on the production of Culture and on the production of Culture and on the production of the production of the With regard to society, the Association replied that it had spent many hours with them and that, according to his opinion – EUR 2.4 million – this segment or the situation in that segment had not deteriorated. Regarding the construction of the new NUK explained that this is an investment that is important for the development of Slovenian librarianship, which we have been waiting for for a very long time, but the question is whether it will be feasible in the short time available to it. He considered UNESCO to be a priority and expressed his joy that the mercury mine did not go on sale and mentioned his efforts to include Jožet Plečnik's works on the list of his cultural heritage. Regarding JAK and the Slovenian Film Centre, he stressed that they are currently highly undernourished and that the staff will need to be sought within the Ministry and its bodies. This also applies to his associated services. Following the completion of the presentation of the proposed candidate, the Committee adopted the following opinion by 11 votes to 7: the presentation by Dr Uroš Grilca as a candidate for the Minister of Culture was appropriate. The second was presented by Dr Jernej Pikalo, who is proposed as Minister of Education, Science and Sport. In its opening presentation, he stressed in particular the continued or efforts to maintain the existing system, in particular in the areas of pre-school activities, primary and secondary schools, the commitment to improving quality and the importance of quality in science and higher education. In sports he stressed the quality of Slovenian sport, which already has an extremely large number of recreational athletes, while at the same time the most successful top athletes. By the way, let me mention that it was quite symbolic that this was happening at a time when we recorded the greatest success of Tina Maze's victory, which I congratulate her on her behalf and on behalf of the entire committee on this occasion. He explained for the youth area that a roof law had been passed on the realization of public interest in the youth sector and, at the end of the presentation, stressed that he had decided to apply because he felt responsible for the country. He thinks it's impossible to maintain your position if you don't do anything. The chairman of the committee pointed out that he had completely missed out on the issue of values in the educational system and that, in his view, the common human and democratic values of a modern united Europe, including the value of patriotism, were a key component of the education and education system, at least as important as the parts specifically mentioned by the candidate in his address. The Minister's candidate apologized in this regard for missing this important part and stating that the values listed are also its values. A number of questions have been put forward for the term of office, including, in short, the future relation to the proposed legislative proposals, which do not have sufficient support in the public, to the future of the school network, to the preservation of the music education programmes in our country, to the research and innovation strategy, to the measures to accelerate the activities needed for investment and development, in relation to the basic project on culture and science – the construction of the Slovenian scientific library of the NUK – to the possibility of including chess as a sports sector in addition to the third, to the first triad of basic education, to the possibilities for a more effective identification of plagicism, to the recommendations of the Commission on the prevention of corruption and the Court of Auditors on the Sport Foundation, to the envisaged changes in the field of education, to the nature and introduction of home education as a subject, to the status, to the appropriate candidates for entry into the faculty of pedagogues and to the future, and to the priority of the National Sport Foundation, to which it is expected to take on this issue. The proposed candidate stressed in his replies that legislative proposals should be reconsidered, the situation calmed down and looked at what would be gained from them. Regarding music education, he said that he supported the decision to include chess as a sports industry in the first triad of schooling and that the decision would be linked to the decisions of experts. With regard to kindergarten prices, he stated that this was a heavy burden for families, and in his view it was a solution to the single methodology for charging prices. He stressed that in the future it will be necessary to favour technology and science, because these are, I quote, "calls and knowledge of the future". It is important that vocational education is strengthened at lower levels and that appropriate engineering personnel be strengthened, which he said should not go to the detriment of society. He considered that the procedure for determining plagiarism was the responsibility of the dean because it was laid down in the university statute. There are different text-checking programmes, but in the end, the mentor is the one who can make a competent decision whether or not something is in line with the criteria. In decommissioning entrepreneurship into the education system, he agreed that this was a value and that he must find his place in the curriculum. With regard to the establishment of the University of Gorenje, he sees no problems and explicitly stated that if it is public and in the public interest, he is in favour. Finally, he considered education and science to be the path leading the country to a developed society and to what enhances the competitiveness of the economy. Following the completion of the presentation of the proposed candidate, the committee adopted the following opinion with 11 votes and 6 against: the presentation by Dr Jernej Pikal as the candidate for the Minister of Education, Science and Sport was appropriate.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u11	Thank you, Mag. Branku Grims for presentation of the report of the committee. The report of the Infrastructure and Space Committee follows. The report will be presented by President Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u12	Dear President, Honourable President of the Government, colleague and colleague! Igor Maher, a candidate for Minister, is in accordance with Article 112 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 230(1) and (2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. 3. 2013 presented and answered their questions to the members and members of the Infrastructure and Space Committee. At the beginning of the opening presentation, the Minister's candidate pointed out that he worked mostly on the team or in various project groups in his career, so it is common to exchange different views on individual issues. According to his experience, this is the most effective way of working, and he will therefore endeavour to exchange views with the members and members of the competent working body of the National Assembly on all important matters and decisions in his field of work. In order to successfully implement individual projects, he also highlighted the importance of good inter-resort cooperation, in particular with the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment and the Ministry of Economy, as the lack of coherence in the past was one of the key reasons for delays in the implementation of important infrastructure projects. In addition, the applicant presented the basic guidelines for individual work areas of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space arising from the existing state and coalition contract. In the area of construction of infrastructure projects, he stressed efforts to implement already established and launched priority projects to be financed from the financial perspective 2007-2013, highlighting the completion of the block 6 project in the Šostanj Termoelectrica power plant, the immediate continuation of the restructuring of energy in Zasavje, including the launch of research in the Barnica area and the decision to continue the work for the renovation of boilers in the Termoelectrica Trbovlje, the construction of gas plants as domestic and tertiary reserves, the deepening of the seabed and the extension of the first and second ports in Luka Koper, the energy rehabilitation project for buildings and the construction of wind power plants. In the area of transport infrastructure: adoption of a national programme for the development of public rail and road infrastructure, setting out priorities and objectives for the development of rail and road transport, investment and maintenance, with forward-looking plans and evaluated measures. In the field of energy: the preparation and signing of concession contracts and the development of an ideal design for the construction of hydroelectric power plants in the Central Sava, the analysis of the adopted renewable energy targets and, on the basis of this, the adoption of decisions whose production resources the State would also encourage in future, the provision of tertiary reserves within domestic power plants, the decommissioning of final electricity consumers, in particular industry, by reducing the transmission network tariff by 8 %, the return of the contribution to renewable energy sources to levels before 1. 2. 2013, efforts to reduce natural gas prices. In the area of spatial policy: a change in spatial legislation that will simplify and significantly reduce the placement of facilities into space, and in this context an examination of the possibility of implementing a two-phase procedure for obtaining a building permit, the Public Spirit Agency shall adequately strengthen its human resources in the area of spatial regulation and financial management of investments. In the area of housing policy: the adoption of measures to accelerate the procedures for the acquisition of tenants or owners of built dwellings, the preparation of a new housing policy focusing on the resolution of the housing problem of young families, the establishment and regulation of the area of rents with appropriate incentives, the regulation of real estate records and the supervision of empty dwellings. On the basis of the candidate's presentation, the members and members of the committee asked several questions and also expressed their concerns and opinions. The proposed candidate for the Minister of Infrastructure and Space answered the questions raised by the members and members of the Committee and informed them of his views, opinions and views, as well as of the proposals for action in the individual areas exposed to his future activities at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space. After the presentation, the Committee adopted the opinion by 9 votes to four with four votes that Igor Maher's presentation as a candidate for the Minister of Infrastructure and Space was appropriate.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u13	Thank you, Mr Daniel Krivec, for presenting the report. The Committee on Defence's report will follow and will be presented by the President, Mr Franc Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Nice greetings to the president, the candidates for ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Roman Jakič, proposed as Minister of Defence, presented himself to the members and members of the Defence Committee on 18 March 2013 and answered their questions. Let me summarize some of his views and views. The substantially changed situation in society is due to the fact that the Ministry of Defence has also begun to respond intensively and the initial degree of integration of the Ministry of Administration and the General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces has remained largely at the declarative level. The development of the Slovenian Army has been virtually halted. In practice, there is an ever-increasing gap between commitments undertaken under the Alliance and actual capacities. The transformation of civil defence into a modern crisis management system has not been sufficiently implemented. The crisis management solutions of the European Union and NATO were only partially implemented. In the area of protection and rescue, the rationalisation of investments in infrastructure systems and protective equipment for the operation of the security and rescue forces and assistance was carried out. The trend towards reducing the defence budget requires a transformation in order to achieve the most rational and efficient use of existing capacities. For this reason, the administrative part of the Ministry and the General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces will have to be procedurally integrated. Support processes carried out in both parts of the Ministry will be systematically transferred to the administrative area and will relieve the Slovenian Army. The scope and structure of the Slovenian Army will, according to the candidate, adapt to the actual mission and tasks and needs. The candidate pointed out that the transformation of the civil defence system should also continue. In view of the above, the candidate believes that it will be necessary to draw up a White Paper for which the candidate would like to be the basis for the discussion and drafting of a new Defence Act. In the context of protection against natural and other disasters, a programme will have to be drawn up which, despite extensive austerity measures in this area, will provide sustainable resources to voluntary organisations under the protection, rescue and assistance system. The measures will ensure that the defence system and the system of protection and resolution are adapted to the actual state of society. At the end of his presentation, the proposed candidate also responded briefly to some of the public statements that appeared on his appointment as Minister of Defence candidate and appeared in public. The members of the committee asked the proposed candidate for Minister the following questions. Whether it is acceptable for the candidate to send the Slovenian Army to peacekeeping operations and missions to crisis areas, in what way the candidate intends to amend the applicable legislation relating to the procedure for the deployment of Slovenian soldiers to peacekeeping operations and missions, how the candidate intends to undertake structural discrepancies in the Slovenian military between soldiers, under-ranks and officers, whether the candidate will terminate one of the regional information centres and where he will devote the funds remaining, whether the candidate will respect the commitments made by the Republic of Slovenia at the time of full membership of NATO and the European Union, whether the candidate as a member of the government will seek to prevent and remedy the consequences of the natural disasters of more money, how the candidate will achieve the strengthening of volunteerism and solidarity in the system of protection and resolution, how and how the candidate will defend the defence budget of the Slovenian government, or whether the number of professional soldiers that we have in favour of the international military operations – the future – through the Slovenian presidency – will continue to become a candidate for the future. There were several other questions that the candidate for minister had answered. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted an opinion: the presentation by Roman Jakič, the candidate for the Minister of Defence, was appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u15	Thank you, too. The Commission's report on relations with Slovenians, both in place and worldwide, will be presented by President Franz Puksic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u16	Very nice greetings, colleagues, colleagues, president of the National Assembly, mandate-holder! I will give an opinion on the presentation of the candidate Tina Komel as Minister without a department for relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the indigenous Slovenian National Community in neighbouring countries and between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenia around the world. Tina Komel shall comply with Article 112 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 230(1) and (2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. 3. 2013 presented and answered their questions to the members and members of the Commission for Relations with Slovenians in Replace and Worldwide. Following a short personal presentation, Tina Komel, a candidate for a minister without a department for relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the indigenous Slovenian national community in neighbouring countries and between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenia around the world, focused on the experience she had so far with the knowledge of the subject of Slovenians living outside the borders of the Republic of Slovenia, and stressed that she had gained this experience as Vice-President of the Commission, having had an excellent teacher as chairman of the Commission. She stressed the importance of intergenerational integration, learning the language of the new multicultural generation, eliminating ideological differences, connecting and maintaining contacts based on culture, language, science, economy, education, sport and other areas of Slovenian society. It will also pay special attention to Slovenians in place, political and economic immigrants and their descendants and also to new immigrants who have left Slovenia either because of new job opportunities or study obligations. Members and members of the Commission have put forward a number of questions, including the position on the notification of the Austrian State Treaty, on solutions that would enable individuals of the Slovenian family to facilitate economic and scientific cooperation with partners in the Republic of Slovenia, on the current issue of the recognition of indigenous national communities within the European Union, on efforts in the field of cooperation between young people – the refugee – on the initiative of constitutional change to elect two representatives from Slovenians in exchange and Slovenians worldwide as members of the National Assembly – this is a long-standing requirement of our fellow citizens – on good cooperation and information on the situation and development of Slovenian communities outside the borders of the Republic of Slovenia and on the continuation of the successful strategy of its predecessors, Dr. Jakš and Minister Novak, on the budgetary provision of resources for the functioning of the Slovenian community outside and around the world, on the role and development of the Slovenian community outside the borders of the territory of the Churches and on the importance of other issues. The proposed candidate answered the questions raised below. First, she said that the notification of the ADP was under the responsibility of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, but would point to the consistent implementation of Article 7 of the Austrian State Treaty. With regard to easier cooperation with interested Slovenian investors, she said that it was necessary to take care of a more friendly environment, legislation and the like, as this group of investors represented great potential and would therefore promote economic cooperation and integration through different forms – business clubs and so on – which the Slovenian Government for Slovenia has already funded in place and in part around the world, especially with regard to young patent offices, start-ups and others. The candidate highlighted the importance of education, the promotion of Slovenian language, culture, especially in the younger population segment, and said many more. Following the final presentation of the proposed candidate, the Commission adopted the following opinion by 9 votes in favour and 3 against: the presentation by Tina Komel, a candidate for a minister without a department for relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the indigenous Slovenian National Community in neighbouring countries and between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenia around the world, was appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u17	Thank you, too. The report of the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons follows and will be presented by the President, Mrs Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u18	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! In accordance with Article 112 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the first and second paragraphs of Article 230 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Dr Anja Kopač Mrak presented herself to the Committee on Work, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons on 19 March and responded to questions raised by members and members of the Committee. In the opening presentation, the candidate presented herself first and briefly presented her CV and work experience. She said that her entire professional life dealt with social policy issues, in particular the link between the functioning of the market and the country and the search for a proper balance between security and flexibility and effective social security and prosperity. After completing her studies at the University of Ljubljana, Faculty of Social Sciences, she became a young researcher at the same university and enrolled in an international master's degree. At the age of 26, she obtained the scientific title of Master of Science and immediately continued her Ph.D. study, dealing with the reform of state welfare and the role of social policy. She was a Ph.D. in 2004. He sees his candidacy for a minister primarily as a responsibility to the people and their expectations related both to the social state and to the functioning of the rule of law. She presented her priorities in the first year. The Ministry's priorities will be in line with the government's general priorities, notably the reduction in the number of unemployed, with particular emphasis on reducing youth and older people's unemployment. She said that in January 2013, we reached record values in the area of the number of unemployed persons similar to those in the mid-1990s. In particular, the rapid increase in unemployment among job seekers and the increase in the proportion of older people and their long-term unemployment is problematic. More than half of the unemployed were unemployed for more than 12 months in 2012. She said that she would focus attention on strengthening social entrepreneurship as a form of an active and sustainable approach to addressing social problems and the generator of new jobs, particularly green jobs. Another important priority in the light of strengthening the rule of law institutions will be to increase the efficiency of the Slovenian Inspectorate for Work. In order to prevent violations of the rights of workers we have witnessed in the past, it is necessary to approach changes in the legal matter, the Labour Inspection Act and the Inspection Act, and to provide an additional labour force, which will be able to exercise more effective and more effective control on the ground. The third priority will be to reduce the scope of the grey economy, which is estimated at between 17% and 25% of GDP in Slovenia. In the social field, she stressed that, on the basis of the evaluation of the new social protection legislation, it would be necessary to accede to the urgent changes in both laws, the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds and the Law on Social Protection Benefits. In the field of labour market and employment, the partners will take a closer look at agency work and will pursue the objective of promoting or increasing employment opportunities for vulnerable groups, young people, first job seekers and older people. They will regulate the field of student work with the aim of achieving the principle that each work counts. It also drew attention to changes in the scholarship policy, which is in progress anyway. They will also proceed to draw up a resolution on family policy. Special attention will be given to the area of equal opportunities because it believes that the only society that recognises gender equality can be successful in all segments. Some questions were raised concerning the management of social dialogue, which was very successful in the mandate of Minister Visiak, while four referendums were under the mandate of the Secretary of State because of inadequate dialogue with the social partners. We asked about the measures to be implemented on the basis of the evaluation of the social legislation adopted, which is also the result of the previous Government of Pahor. The area of unemployment and its policy of halting the trend of rising unemployment – including unemployment, doubled at a time when the State Secretary was in the same ministry. She stressed that there would be a need for a budget rebalancing in order to increase funding for social programmes. It will continue to reorganise social work centres. She promised to cooperate with the opposition, to answer questions about the compensation fund and the fund for the unemployed, although some discussers did not feel that the fund for the unemployed was necessary. After the presentation, the Committee adopted by majority the opinion that the presentation by Dr. Anja Kopač Mrak, the candidate for Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, was appropriate.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Alenki Jeraj. The following is the report of the Committee on Justice, Public Administration and Local Self-Government, and the report will be presented by President Eva Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u20	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The President of the Magnificent Government. Alenka Bratušek presented to the President of the National Assembly Janko Webru a list of candidates and candidates for ministers and ministers of the Government, in which she proposed to the Minister of Justice Dr. Senko Plitčanič. Dr. Senko Pličanič presented himself to the Committee on Justice, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the competent working body for the judiciary, with the exception of the State Prosecutor's Office, and to the Committee on Home Affairs as the competent working body in the field of the State Prosecutor's Office, and responded to questions raised by members and members of both committees. At the beginning of the opening presentation, the minister's candidate for the Minister of Justice was represented after one year to MEPs and Members, as he is accustomed to working in such a way as to keep his promises and that the work he started always finishes. He therefore accepted the challenge of once again serving as Minister of Justice in the proposed project government. Above all, he wants to continue and complete the work he has started in the last year as Minister of Justice and Public Administration and at least start the necessary projects in the field of justice for years. His presentation continued with the presentation of six programme priorities in the field of justice, which also represent his work programme as a candidate for the Minister of Justice. First, increase the efficiency of the work of the courts. The mechanisms of the new judicial management should be introduced. More clearly, objectively measurable objectives should be set and the responsibility of the Presidents of the Courts for the quality and efficiency of the Courts must be consistently enforced. Particular attention should be paid to the position of judges. The judges are officials of the judiciary, they are independent, so we cannot compare them with public officials. Secondly, simplification of civil and criminal procedural legislation. Thirdly, a more rational organisation of courts and courts. A smaller reorganisation of the courts, digitisation and formalisation of their operations and a reduction in the costs of their operation should be carried out. In this context, judicial districts as basic organisational units shall be established and it shall be verified that all district courts are still necessary. At the level of the micro-organisation of the judiciary, the process of informing and digitising the business of the courts should be continued. Fourthly, the implementation in the previous term of the prepared amendments to insolvency, bankruptcy legislation. The effectiveness of these procedures is of paramount importance to the economy. Although the law in force is rather imprecise and often difficult to understand, the system works at least for force. Therefore, under the given circumstances, it would not be wise to make a complete replacement with the new system, with all the risks posed by such a transition. It is therefore necessary to change quickly what is most urgent. Greater transparency, simplification and efficiency of insolvency and bankruptcy procedures should be ensured by increasing the role of creditors in these procedures and by increased and more effective supervision of the work of bankruptcy managers. This is one of the most important programme priorities in the field of justice, as the economy fully agrees with these changes and is looking forward to them. Fifthly, the users of justice are offered a wider choice and decisive influence. Sixthly, the launch of three construction projects in the field of justice. It begins with the construction of a new judicial building and a new prison in Ljubljana. It also starts with a project to renovate all judicial buildings in Slovenia, notably through the use of EU funds and through a public-private partnership. At the conclusion of his introductory presentation, the candidate for a minister stressed that the greatest responsibility for the changes in the state of the judiciary lies with the judiciary alone. The debate between the members and members of the Committee or both committees focused on the necessity of restoring people's trust in the rule of law and the announced reform of the judiciary, with the MEP of the Slovenian Democratic Party expressing the view that the new coalition treaty was mainly written in the field of justice too general and indeterminate. The following sets of questions have been raised by Members to the Minister's candidate. In view of the increasing demands of the people, the protestors and the economy after the re-establishment of the rule of law and confidence in the law, Members asked how quickly the reform of the judicial system would be announced in the legislative process, which would help to increase the reputation, independence and efficiency of the judiciary. In this regard, amendments to insolvency law were also considered necessary in order to increase the effectiveness of the judiciary. They expressed their wish to participate as often as possible in the meetings of the national working body. The Members also asked how the candidate would approach the reduction and elimination of judicial backlogs, in particular in the area of the most serious or most serious crimes, and how an alternative solution to legal disputes could help to remedy judicial backlogs. The Members were also interested in the candidate's opinion on the legality or illegality of the meetings of the protestors, as regards the intended sound recording and the public presentation of the proceedings, and his position on the permanent mandate of the judges. They also asked what are objectively measurable criteria for determining the effectiveness of the courts and judges and what measures are envisaged in the event of inefficiency. The Minister's candidate responded to the opinions and questions raised and highlighted in particular the following. In his view, the Coalition Treaty sets priorities in the field of justice, which are enforceable within one year, and therefore cannot agree with the indications on their generality. Changes in the field of justice must not be swift, but must be weighty and thoughtful. They should also be coordinated with other stakeholders, particularly in the field of justice, as well as with the widest possible range of professional and other public, as stipulated by the Resolution on Regulatory Activities. In his previous mandate, as minister, he first approached the changes by analysing the situation and the necessary changes in the field of justice and by establishing communication with the judiciary. To a large extent, he was also engaged in negotiations with trade unions in the field of public administration. The proposed amendments, which in his view were aimed at the benefit of the judiciary, were reacted negatively by the judiciary. Therefore, in December 2012 they prepared and sent a package of around 10 laws to the Ministry for inter-departmental coordination. The amendments to insolvency law are also ready, stressing that there are not enough experts at the Ministry of Labour in this area and that the amendments have been prepared with the free assistance of external experts who are willing to participate in the future. He explained that the opening of a public court was a necessity in his view and personally believed that it would be appropriate to introduce an experimental mandate for judges. In view of the need for constitutional changes, the reform of the judiciary will propose the introduction of a school for judges, in which judges should also learn the other skills needed for confident and upright judges. A division of the legal examination will be proposed with a special examination for the judge. For the time being, the situation of existing judges remains unresolved. Objectively measurable criteria for determining the effectiveness of courts and judges already exist. He'll stand up for their tightening and cleaning. He said we already have mechanisms to determine the disciplinary responsibility of judges. There is also an opportunity to terminate the term of office of the President of the Court, which does not reach the objectives set within a certain period of time. Upon completion of the presentation, the Committees voted on the appropriateness of the presentation of the candidate, each in the work relating to its field of work. The Committee on Justice, Public Administration and Local Administration adopted the following opinion by 12 votes to four with four votes in favour: the Committee on Justice, Public Administration and Local Administration assesses the presentation of Dr. Senko Plicanič as a candidate for the Minister of Justice in the work relating to the field of justice as appropriate. The Committee on the Interior adopted the following opinion by 7 votes to 3, with 3 votes against: The Committee on Internal Affairs assesses the presentation of Dr Senko Plitčanič as a candidate for the Minister of Justice in the work relating to the field of the State Prosecutor's Office as appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u21	Thank you, too. The next report, the report of the Committee on the Economy, will be presented by Mr Matjaž Han, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! I'm sorry if we're going to repeat ourselves in the first part, but still. On 14 March 2013, the President of the Government proposed to the President of the National Assembly that the National Assembly for the Minister of Economic Development and Technology be appointed mag. Stephen's station. Mag. In accordance with Article 112 of the Constitution and the first and second paragraphs of Article 230 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the stepmaster shall be 18. 3. 2013 presented to the members and members of the Committee on the Economy and answered their questions. Following his initial personal presentation, the proposed candidate for minister highlighted the following priority areas of the ministry. For the first time, a rapid drawdown of European funds and preparation for the 2014-2020 financial perspective. Secondly, the resolution of the indebtedness of the Slovenian economic system and also of the banking system. Thirdly, rapid action in the field of legislation. He also presented other areas and measures for which he would take the role of minister: strengthening the competitiveness of the economy through investment in knowledge, research, development, innovation and new technologies, facilitations for new jobs, in particular for young people, more important cohesion projects, green development policies, aid schemes mainly for small, medium and large enterprises, the development of a fast mobile broadband network, the reduction of the gap between the supply of educated and educated personnel and the needs of the economy and the maintenance and development of healthy cores in firms in difficulty. Members and members of the committee asked the candidate a number of questions and raised some concerns about the solutions presented. The proposed candidate also answered the questions raised and informed the members and members of the Committee of his personal views, views and proposals for action in the areas raised by the members and members of the Committee in their questions. Following the completion of the presentation of the candidate, the Committee on the Economy adopted the opinion that the presentation was mags. Stanka Stepišnika as candidate for Minister of Economic Development and Technology is appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u23	Thank you, too. The next report will be the report of the Committee on the Interior and will be presented by the President, Ms Maša Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Chairman. Mr Gregor Virant, candidate for Minister of the Interior and Public Administration, is in accordance with the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on 18. 3. 2013 presented to the Committee on Home Affairs as the competent working body for internal affairs, as well as to the Committee on Justice, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the competent working body for public administration and local self-government. The candidate for minister started the opening presentation by presenting his references and experience in the area in which he is running. He highlighted his teaching, research, application and management work in the field of public administration since 1993. He stressed that, as Minister of the Interior and Public Administration, he would not only be a minister of the police but would also pay the same attention to all other areas of work. In the area of police and administrative internal affairs, he highlighted the importance of the effectiveness of investigating economic crime and corruption at all levels. He committed himself to maintaining the concept of the National Investigation Office and to ensuring the optimum conditions for its work, establishing human resources excellence, and expressed his expectations for the results both in terms of quantity and quality and up-to-date. He drew attention to the staffing problems in the Police and the shortfall in salaries, and it would therefore be necessary to seek internal reserves in this area, debirocratise procedures and monitor the eligibility of payments. He touched on the current issue of public meetings, stressing that spontaneous meetings are legal and reflective of one of the key constitutional freedoms, the right to peaceful assembly and public assemblies, and therefore there is a need for respect for participants without the search for conspiracy and political backgrounds. In the area of transport, he highlighted the understanding of the police mission, which aims to ensure security, not to increase the number of violations identified and the maximum number of fines found. In the area of administrative internal affairs, he highlighted the issue of the deleted, which will require a quick solution – the enforcement of the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights in the Kurić case and others, which he will endeavour to ensure as soon as possible. In the field of public administration and the public sector, he highlighted wage issues as a priority and the most pressing issue. In this area, the implementation of the budget requires a 5% reduction in wages, which is why an immediate start to social dialogue will be needed. He expressed his wish to reach an agreement at the end of this process that would preserve social peace in the public sector and be financially sustainable at the same time. In the field of local self-government, he stressed that the municipalities need to be provided with material conditions for the implementation of legal tasks, while at the same time encouraging them to compete for as much competitiveness as possible through tax legislation. The municipality in Slovenia is too much, so it would suggest the introduction of as many financial incentives to unite municipalities as possible and to combine the capacity of municipalities. It has identified administrative units as a quality part of the public administration system, where the process of continuous improvements needs to be continued. At the conclusion of the presentation, he stressed that his work would be based on cooperation and integration. He concluded that he saw in the integration of internal affairs and public administration the advantages and opportunities for steps towards improvements and easier coordination of the entire core. The members and members then asked the candidate questions relating in particular to the following areas: the placement of the State Prosecutor in the framework of the executive branch of the Authority and its re-transfer to the Ministry of Justice, the question of increasing the effectiveness of the prosecution of economic and organised crime and corruption, the definition of corruption and the appropriateness of its prosecution and treatment, the improvement of regulation and practice in the area of the seizure of illegally acquired property, where the situation is not satisfactory, the transfer of transparency, economy and efficiency of operations, which has been well established in the larger public administration, including the wider public sector, further measures in the area of public sector wages in order to provide a financially sustainable and at the same time fair system for all public servants, the provision of compensation funds for so-called budgets, taking into account the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, and a number of others. The Minister's candidate answered the questions raised and highlighted the following. In its programme, his client advocated as closely as possible the integration of the State Prosecutor's Office and the police and the integration of internal affairs and justice into one area, but in the formation of the previous coalition, and in the process of drawing up this proposal, she withdrew because of the strong concerns and criticisms of the professional public, which would be a poor way forward for the Government. The candidate will strive for the neutral treatment and investigation of crimes and the equal treatment of all perpetrators, regardless of their political affiliation, and for the professional, political neutral and efficient police. In particular, corruption involves corruption crimes against official duties and public powers, with the Commission not investigating and prosecuting corruption, but with powers in the area of the integrity of public functions and the control of the property situation of public officials, and a special place because of independence and independence in relation to the government. The candidate spoke about the area of seizure of illegally acquired property, where there are insufficient concrete results, and it will therefore be necessary to simplify the law and introduce the principle of reverse burden of proof. A major challenge will be to extend the achievements and principles of the operation of administrative units and of the smaller part of the public administration to the wider public sector, in particular to institutions which, due to their independence and absence of control, have a bureaucratic way of doing so, which needs to be changed. The reform of the payroll system and the establishment of the corresponding wage relations were one of the most difficult tasks faced as Minister in the 2004-2008 mandate, considering the signing of the social agreement as a major achievement of that period, but aware that all public servants are not satisfied and that some shortcomings of this system will need to be addressed under the available financial resources. There is no doubt that the European Court of Human Rights judgment in the field of deleted persons is to be carried out and that the state of the State is to be taken into account when determining the compensation scheme. Activities under way in the field of nationalism and bilinguality must continue, according to the candidate. He also sees no obstacles to the transfer of the Nationality Service to another area. After the presentation, the two committees voted on the appropriateness of the candidate's presentation, each for their own area. With 10 votes and 5 against, the Internal Affairs Committee found that its presentation in the area of internal affairs was appropriate, while the Committee on Justice, Public Administration and Local Administration adopted an opinion by 14 votes to 5 that its presentation was also appropriate in the area of public administration and local self-government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u25	Thank you, too. The report of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment will follow and will be presented by Vice-President Zvonko Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u26	Dear President, President of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! Mag. In accordance with Article 112 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the first and second paragraphs of Article 230 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Dejan Židan shall be bound by Article 18 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. 3. 2013 presented and answered their questions to the members and members of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment. In his presentation of the vision for the future development of the Ministry and the programme, the proposed candidate for the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment stressed first that the Ministry needs continuity in its functioning, which, if appointed as Minister, will be ensured under his leadership. In doing so, he pointed out that the programme of priorities under the Coalition Treaty was prepared for only one year and could be upgraded by the programme for a further two years if a confidential vote was possible after the expiry of that period. He further gave a detailed overview of the current state of the environment. It expressed its belief that the merger of both sources, agricultural and environmental, has proved meaningful in a year and that many environmental measures are already being implemented successfully. He will therefore endeavour to pursue the planned guidelines of the current Minister in this area. Despite the positive developments, however, the candidate believes that this area needs the greatest possible care and attention, as the problems are still very large. They are mainly linked to insufficient use of cohesion funds dedicated to environmental infrastructure, amounting to approximately EUR 548 million. The next problem that the candidate will pay special attention to is to address the shortcomings of the procedures led against Slovenia by the European Commission. There are currently 30 procedures open that could have a significant impact on the state budget. Further efforts will also be needed in the area of more efficient water management, where the candidate plans to reorganise the management area by setting up a specific water directorate. It is also planned to take measures to improve air. The area of protection against small dust particles such as PM10 particles will need to be regulated, and action plans will also need to be completed by place and integrated into cohesion. It will be necessary to improve the situation in the area of chimney services, to provide the basis for the establishment of a low-carbon and natural resource for a prudent economy, and to reduce the effects of waste generation. Some measures to improve the situation in those areas have already been adopted and are also being implemented, and some will need to be upgraded in cooperation with local communities and the economy. In the field of agriculture, the candidate will continue the processes that have already begun in the previous mandate, based on the adoption of the resolution. The candidate also stressed that he would seek to include the health inspectorate in the Food Safety, Veterinary and Plant Protection Board, thereby ensuring uniform and more effective control throughout the food chain and thus improving food safety. He further presented some of the priorities in the field of agricultural land protection and presented some of the planned amendments to agricultural legislation. As he said, he plans to amend the Law on Kobilna Lipica, the Law on Agrarian Communities, the Law on Agricultural Lands, the Law on livestock, the Law on Agriculture and the Law on Forests. In the debate, the members and members of the committee asked the proposed candidate for the Minister of Agriculture and the Environment a number of questions. Some members also expressed fear that the priority programme would be difficult to implement in one year. The candidate is likely to face the same problems as his predecessor, who had only one year available for the implementation of his programme. It is also pointed out that any progress can be made in the area of the absorption of cohesion funds only when administrative and human resources barriers are removed at the Ministry and with the close cooperation of all competent ministries, in particular the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment and the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. Other specific issues related mainly to the envisaged measures in the area of waste collection and separation, air improvement, the possibility of placing infrastructure facilities in space, measures to increase self-sustainment of food, the acceleration of the opening of local markets, measures to revive small farms and measures to maintain the production and competitiveness of farms in more difficult crop areas after the abolition of milk quotas. The proposed candidate for minister submitted extensive answers to the questions raised. The Committee adopted the opinion by 10 votes to 6, with 10 votes to yes, that the presentation was mags. Actual Jewish candidate for Minister of Agriculture and the Environment is appropriate.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u27	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u28	Dear Vice-President, distinguished Prime Minister of the Government, distinguished Members and Members of Parliament and distinguished Prime Minister candidates, wherever you are at this moment! Today a new spark of hope is set on in this hall, which promises the beginning of political stability and, above all, the calming of the already overheated conditions in our society. I believe that the common denominator of this hope is the well-being of our country. Every time we talk about a new ministerial team, we have high expectations, and that's the same. It has been a recent time, respected to end the political instability that is further fueling the fire called the economic, social, financial and moral crisis. We therefore promise that the new government team will work for the good of Slovenia, for the benefit of its citizens and citizens. Even a year ago, when a vote was taken on the ministerial team of the now outgoing government, expectations were high. Unfortunately, these expectations quickly began to wane when the government of Janez Janša caught up in its own traps of unimaginable measures, lack of dialogue, not with the social partners, but with the social partners, and a lack of awareness of the people who had taken a massive part in the protests. The summit of the icy mountain, known to all, was a report by the anti-corruption commission, which also – the emphasis is on – was not sufficient for the Prime Minister of the Government to do the only thing he expected to do — to resign. All of this has fueled reflection, especially by the fact that we must overcome political agony and for the sake of Slovenia give a new team the opportunity to wrap up their sleeves and face, without speculation, the real problems of an increasingly drying economy, high unemployment, unemployment and public financial instability. Social Democrats have not caused the political crisis that Slovenia is in. As an opposition party, it is true that we have been a sharp critic of many of our misjudgements and also of the adverse decisions of the ruling structure. Nevertheless, we have acted properly and constructively and have not continued the opposition practice of the previous mandate, which has also blocked some key reforms with referendum requirements. Responsibility for the country, for the quality of life of people and for our common good remains the basic criterion of the Social Democrats, whether we are an opposition or a coalition party. At this point, we're the last. We enter the government coalition with all seriousness and responsibility. We want to participate actively in the achievement of the objectives outlined, especially our coalition commitment. Everyone is aware that we have proposed a very competent candidate and both candidates for the departments who know them well and have a well-designed vision of their operation. Some of this has already been presented at the hearings before the competent committees of the National Assembly, but we believe that they will demonstrate and demonstrate by their work that they deserve our trust. In addition, I believe that the presentations by ministers' candidates and candidates have been good. Unfortunately, today we do not go to plant flowers and promise quick solutions that have immediate effect. The situation in which we are in need of synchronized action in all areas and in all areas. Unfortunately, there are no shortcuts here, Your Honor. This was also explained from the presentation of candidates and candidates for ministers. Even though the vote will not be until a few hours later, let me congratulate everyone in advance. I respect the courage that, despite the pollens that were received before they officially became candidates for the ministerial team and the situation that is among the most difficult in Slovenian history, they have decided to put the country and its well-being first. I believe, and I am sure, that they will be part of the difficult tasks and projects that are ahead of them. Knowledge, desire, courage are certainly not lacking. However, I wish that all politicians, including those of the outgoing government, are aware that bonuses, when the interests of the country have been trampled on the basis of political interests, have long been vexed. In this spirit, I call on them to start the story of the new government today, although they are actively involved in the opposition role. The Group of Social Democrats will support the ministerial team with Prime Minister Alenko Bratušek at the head. Good luck!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the National List, Mr Richard Braniselj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u30	Dear Vice President, Honourable President of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! Last week, the Council of the National Gazette decided to join the government of Mrs Alenka Bratušek. This ended the two months-long political crisis caused by the publication of the Commission's report on anti-corruption. Political stability is established and the government will have the opportunity to gradually restore people's confidence in the country's institutions and policies. After the report was published, we first called on both policies to resign from public functions. Since the Prime Minister has not resigned, we have stepped down from the coalition. We have advocated early elections to be held only after the decision of the Prime Minister of the Government after our constitutional regime. Since we wanted to conclude the mandate of the minority government, which began to draw harmful moves for the country and had extremely low public support, we voted in favour of a constructive non-truster and elected a new mandate-holder. This was the only constitutionally possible way to resolve an incompetent minority government. The candidate has also decided to run on the basis of our assurance that we will not support her with a fig tree in our pocket, that we will sincerely sit at the negotiating table. If she had not been assured, she would probably not have agreed to the candidacy and today would have had an incompetent minority government with full powers. We have negotiated decisively and responsibly, and despite significant programming differences, we have reached a good agreement that ensures the continuation of key projects – bank rehabilitation, consolidation of public finances and governance reforms with state assets. Many of us wanted early elections, but they could only be obtained through fraud by supporting the mandate holder with a fig in his pocket. As we entered the government, we also opened the way to early elections. The agreement on the cooperation of coalition partners stipulates that after one year the President of the Government will request a vote on the Secretary-General, which is the only constitutional path to early elections. By entering the left-wing government, we will show that the National List is a central party capable of negotiating and negotiating with all political parties. By joining the government, we have achieved two other important things. The first of the two policies burdened by the Commission's report on anti-corruption will no longer be the Prime Minister, and the second will no longer be the party's president. The ethical problem of Slovenian policy revealed by the Commission's report is not yet fully resolved. The positive Slovenia and the Slovenian Democratic Party were not able to distance themselves from their presidents and make appropriate moves after the report was published. The final cleansing of politics will take place in the elections. We must be aware that joining the government means taking on great responsibility. Slovenia is in a difficult, uncertain situation, and the decision to join the government in such a situation requires a lot of courage. By taking responsibility, we have been given an opportunity and have at the same time imposed a burden on ourselves to demonstrate ourselves and show our results especially in the resources we take over. After two months of political complication, which the President of the Government has caused after the publication of the burdensome report by the PKK, we are finally starting to deal with the problems of the country. The citizens' list offered a good ministerial team to the mandate-holder. For all of us, a new period is beginning in which many difficult trials and new challenges await us. Let us not be blinded by the appointment of a new government to remove problems that have accumulated and increased for decades in our community. I am convinced, however, that we have taken the right step towards the objectives set and that this government is going through enough knowledge, experience and prudence to build foundations better, more successful and to all our citizens and citizens more just Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The text is by the Slovenian People's Party's Group, Mr Michael Prevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u32	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Prime Minister of the Government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! A good year ago, the Slovenian People's Party refused to participate in the government of the relative winner of the elections, Positive Slovenia under the leadership of Zoran Jankovic. The authoritarian style of governance, the underestimated attitude towards partners, the lack of specificisation of content and guidance was what we did not want to participate in. Today the situation is not quite so different. A short coalition treaty is read as a beautiful fairy tale and promises to solve all the problems of this country. Only the answer to a few key questions is missing – how it is funding, how it is doing and how it is doing. Such a contract has led to huge programme differences between the parties, and if you make such broad compromises, then there is a clear consequence that certain essential questions remain unanswered. The implementation of this Treaty will be a loving and pure improvisation, and this is what we are truly afraid of in the Slovenian People's Party. The Slovenian People's Party cannot and does not want to join this government. Not because of personal resentment, not because of politicization, but because of a completely different view of the reality, of the concept of solving the most pressing problems in the country. One of Slovenia's most successful economic experts abroad has expressed concern in one of today's media that in this government coalition, the dominant political sex is the one who advocates the capture of economic policy, which has proved completely ineffective in the last 20 years. Before you start screaming and screaming about an evil neoliberal, think about what he said. He said that the main paradigm of this economic policy is to oppose change and thus oppose concrete effective reforms. Moreover, some of the announced economic receptions bring us back even before the era of independence, during the period of economic self-government or, if you want more directly, into a period of socialism. The Slovenian People's Party has always been a people's party, which has particularly advocated for small people, and how we stress the values of the social state. However, people need to stop telling stories and telling them the truth. Without a flourishing economy, there is no social state. The economy can be successful only if it adapts to the rules of the world market economy. We have chosen this path by entering European integration, and some of you forget this too many times in your populist promises. That is why we will not be present in the Slovenian People's Party, but we will support any solutions that will go in the direction of resolving the economic crisis. Given the economic and financial situation, we could say that we are going into an emergency situation and therefore the key functions of the next government are the financial and economic resources. The Ministry of Finance is the one you will not want to continue improving the blood count of state finances and looking for reserves and the necessary financial resources, and it also wanes with the enormous appetites of its ministerial colleagues, who in the past few days have promised not to allow cuts in budget expenditure on their departments. We therefore wish the new finance minister much will and success in coordinating all these excessive desires. There is also an economic ministry, which must continue to coordinate the preparation of legislation, which will allow for better working conditions for the Slovenian economy both administratively and in all other ways. Besides, he's got the most important job in the country. As the managing authority, he is responsible for drawing on the remainder of European funds from the financial perspective 2007-2013. The huge programme differences between the parties remain the new coalition. At least it's on paper. The hope stimulates the participation of the two parties of the outgoing government, with which we successfully set up a different economic policy in the country last year and have shown a great deal of understanding for the reform moves of the outgoing government. In the Slovenian People's Party, we expect you to maintain the current programming guidelines and remain loyal to your programme in the new coalition. A respected mandate-holder, the political crisis that we are witnessing, was created in Slovenia because the presidents of the largest political parties did not assume responsibility and resigned from their functions, so the Slovenian People's Party stepped out of the outgoing government and even supported the distrust solely for one reason – to open the way to early elections – and in the hope that we will help at least a little to restore people's confidence in politics, in state institutions. If we are to prove that politics is not just a set of corrupt villains, thieves, fraudsters and counterfeiters, then the legal and other institutions of this country must be given effect, regardless of what one of them thinks. We regret that we have not been able to do more in this area in the last term. Your client, the esteemed Prime Minister of the Government, has never cleared up the charges against your client's first man. You've never been able to shield yourself from your leader and get in your way. Moreover, your ministerial team even has a few members from the narrowest circle of its associates in the Municipality of Ljubljana. As your member, he remains in the highest position to run the Slovenian capital. It is simply not possible to overlook this, and we are convinced that neither citizens nor citizens of Slovenia have overlooked this. Another pretty disturbing thing is planning a piece of the coalition for one year. Your Honor, you have accepted the responsibility of leading this country, a country that is in serious trouble. If you have already prevented new elections with the composition of the Government, you would be expected at least to take the lead of a country with a long-term vision, looking ahead, not temporarily, not for one year. Your move to plan a one-year rule would be understood if we were promised elections in a year. That would make sense. In your case, when you promise only a vote on a confidential person in the National Assembly, a one-year plan, not only is not enough – it is absolutely insolvent. The long-term strategic objectives are crucial to our future, so we are disappointed in the Slovenian People's Party over the 20 very flat-rate sides of the content of the coalition treaty. In conclusion, the Slovenian People's Party opposes the government of Mrs Alenka Bratušek. We see it as a temporary emergency exit, and in this case it would be much better to go to early elections and politics to relieve corruption charges. But most in the National Assembly have made a different decision, and your decision is legitimate. Even though you do not have our support today, for the sake of the situation that Slovenia is in, we want a successful job and a lot of smart decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Franc Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u34	Vice President, thank you so much for your word. Once again a nice greeting to the Prime Minister! Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today is the day when we choose a new ministerial team, a team of those parliamentary political parties that were just before a good year ago, to form a government and get the opportunity to take Slovenia on a road leading from the crisis. Despite the fact that the mandate of the country's leadership was given a second political option at that time, it must be said that today the outgoing government has done something. She laid some ground stones for the road from the crisis. Why she fell, we all know that, so I wouldn't repeat it. In the DeSUS Group, we are confident that the new government will not reject what has already been done, but it will continue to do so, better, in particular with thoughtfulness, justice and in the spirit of consensus with the people. Given that the President has promised dialogue and cooperation with the people, we hope that she will fulfil her promise, and we expect the protesters to give the Government some time to demonstrate her abilities. In the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we estimate that the new composition of the government coalition will be balanced, which means that responsibility will be evenly distributed among all members of the ministerial team. Together, they will bear all the weight of responsibility for success as well as for possible failures, for good and possibly bad decisions, for good and bad results. The hearings of candidates and candidates for ministers and ministers took place in the last two days. In our Group of Members, we estimate that the presentations of candidates and candidates have been comprehensive, well prepared, that all the answers and additional explanations of candidates and candidates for the questions raised have also been appropriate. By the way, I would like to add that it is very good that all three ministers, who have already been in the time of the outgoing government, remain in ministerial positions, as it is good to keep experienced people who can demonstrate the fruits of their work and continue their initial successes and projects. Members and Members of the DeSUS Group are convinced that all candidates for ministers are aware of what they have become and that these tasks are carried out with full responsibility. We are also convinced that they will do their job well if they work hard and, in particular, if the opposition works constructively and nationally, at least in key projects that can lead to economic recovery and the rehabilitation of the banking system. That's why I'm calling you from this place. Starting the economy is one of the priorities of the new government and our parliamentary group. In this we see a key that opens the door to solving all the other problems that have arisen as a result of the economic crisis. We believe that measures to promote economic activity at the same time as accompanying labour market surveillance measures can and should also stop the enormous increase in the number of unemployed, which is now critically close to the figures in the years after independence. The removal of the credit crunch, and earlier the resolution of the banking system, so that the loans responsible and empowered to balance this as well, establish the supervision of bankers, will also be tough for the new government. I think that all of us sitting here today, including citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, agree that the new government will not be able and will work in such a way as to have the feeling that it has a magic wand or that it will kiss the Prince on the emerging burning banking sector and that this banking sector will wake up. To the end, it will be necessary to cool off overstressed political passions and turn the scale of moral and social values, as we will be called upon to lead this country only so that we can work for the well-being of citizens and citizens. Madam President, Members and Members of the DeSUS Group, we will support the proposal to appoint ministers and ministers. We place enormous trust and even greater responsibility in you and your team. If you will be guided by high moral, ethical principles, responsibility for citizens and citizens and the ability to cooperate and compromise, we can expect your confidant to be confirmed at the end of the year. Together, we want much success, wisdom, patience and perseverance in your work.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The text is by the New Slovenia Group, mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u36	Dear fellows and fellows, welcome! When the press recently asked me how I was commenting on the new ministerial team, I said they were wild flowers. You know, wildflowers are always very beautiful, but the content is mostly toxic. Why am I saying that wildflower looks very beautiful? You said that with the arrival of the new government everything would be different, that it was the end of the political crisis and that there was some way of ending the savings. These are beautiful words that highlight the beauty of this wild flower, but on the other hand, this wild flower is also toxic. We were certainly expecting a better team, but we got a team of long-standing politicians and unknown faces. Those with knowledge have cooled down at all costs. Those who have much to say are frozen or frozen and self - ridden tow horses are not included in the new ministerial team. Certainly it may be true, and they keep the words of the President of the Government when he says that the current team is optimal, perhaps. We will certainly not condemn her of failure in advance, so we said we wish you well. What do we mean? That if you do well, it will be good for Slovenia. Perhaps you can find a way to make this wild flower enjoyable. We'll see, we'll be surprised. We also said we'd be a constructive opposition. What does that mean? This is not just a wordprint, but for us it means that we will not judge the proposed things by the proposer, but by the content. In some ways, we have also demonstrated this constructiveness in the new ministerial candidates' hearings so far. However, I would point out that these hearings did not vote on whether you support this and that as a candidate for a minister, but whether the content he presented is appropriate and whether the programming platforms are good. It is understandable from this that the Group of Members decided on Monday to evaluate these presentations on the basis of content. We have been hard against those proposals and against the content that was practically identical to the content that our government has advocated and led. As I said, we have listened to the content, so I can tell you the statistics of our vote at these hearings. We have supported the programming platforms three times because it is certain things that are going on and that the ministers have said that politics and the way in which it works are virtually unchanged from what they have done in our government to what they will do in the future government. Four times we opposed the programming platforms because they represented a significant shift from our programme and from what our government represented. We've held back six times. The content here did not deviate significantly, but the presentation was extremely honey. Why am I telling you this, and what is this statistics I'm presenting to you about? On the basis of a detailed review of your coalition contract – we have reviewed it by Members and also by our experts – we have found that your objectives in the coalition contract do not deviate significantly from the objectives of our government. Very interestingly, the goals are similar, but the difference between us and you is that we in the coalition contract have very clearly written down the way to these goals, and you obviously are running out of time to concrete this path. I wonder why our government could leave if your government's objectives are practically the same. You have also highlighted two key points in your starting points, which have also been crucial to our government – calming the crisis and stabilising public finances and also economic growth. At least in this thing, we're alike. In today's presentation, the Prime Minister said that Slovenia deserves a new and better one, but I see the real reasons for trying to take power and clean up the political space. Let me mention that something new, a new power, a cleansed Slovenian space, does not necessarily produce results. As I said before, dear coalition Members, in one year you will be disappointed to learn that things unfortunately cannot change overnight. If I go slowly to the end of our decision on the list of ministers. 14 days ago we voted against the President of the Government because we did not want to give false hopes that New Slovenia politically supports the new government and the new Prime Minister. Therefore, in some ways, there is a logical continuation, including today's vote. New Slovenia will vote against the proposed list of candidates for ministers for at least three reasons – because we want to report that the new government and the new ministerial team do not have the political support of New Slovenia, because we believe that the proposed list of candidates is worse than what our government has proposed and because we do not believe in improving the situation next year. These are the main reasons why we will vote against the proposed letter. Even though you do not have our support, we will also act constructively in the future and, as I said, we will not judge you as such, but we will judge your programme and your initiatives. For all that will be in line with what is in the New Slovenia programme and according to what our government has been working towards, you will certainly get our support. As the opposition, we will look at you very closely. That's our job, too. Let me conclude by saying that, you know, politics is not black and white, and I think the attack on our party president was totally unnecessary. I can say that our President didn't want anything completely wrong with Mrs Tina Komel. She certainly wanted to encourage her to work for the Slovenes with her heart, and I think it's absolutely nothing bad. I wish you good luck.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The text is addressed to the Italian and Hungarian national groups, Dr. László Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u38	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Madam President of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! In our parliamentary group, we have repeatedly stressed that, also in terms of indigenous national communities, the most important priority for the functioning of the new government is efficiency in halting negative trends in the economic and financial situation of the country, focusing on the rehabilitation of the banking system, the start-up of the economy, transparent and efficient management of state assets. It is also important to ensure a satisfactory level of social rights for citizens, especially the most vulnerable and the younger and older population or pensioners. Particular attention must be paid to the more efficient functioning of the courts and the prosecutions, which is also rightly claimed by citizens. Therefore, all the activities, proposals and laws of the new government, which will go in the direction of upgrading and improving restricted areas, will also be welcomed by us. This is the only acceptable position, irrespective of the fact that the Member of the National Communities is not a member of the government coalition, which is politically and legally formally self-evident, because it comes from the spirit of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Presentations by ministerial candidates showed that the selection of the prime minister for ministers and ministers, despite the fact that some of us had relatively little information, was appropriate. If in some cases certain doubts arise due to lack of experience, this can certainly be compensated by knowledge, intensive work and inspiration, which ensures a proportionate youth of candidates and candidates for ministers and ministers. The fact is that there is no Minister or Minister with inborn experience and it is therefore necessary to accept the hope that new ministers and ministers will be in line with their tasks, mission and challenges. We also have very specific expectations in our parliamentary group from the new government in terms of the conservation and development of indigenous national communities. We estimate that the general definition of this issue, which is enshrined in the Coalition Treaty and is also presented today by the Prime Minister, is appropriate and gives rise to the hope that the continuity of the care and responsibility of the State or Government in this important area, with the Constitution defined, will be clear from now on. In the past days, my colleague Battelli and I, in cooperation with the organizations of the national communities, have forwarded to the new government coalition our most important expectations, which should be fully realized in the coming year. These tasks are summarized as follows: finalisation and adoption of the law on indigenous Italian and Hungarian national communities in the Republic of Slovenia and possible meaningful upgrade of other legislation relating to the protection of indigenous national communities. The need for the existence and development of national communities is also a systemic arrangement for the creation of the economic basis of indigenous national communities, including the development of national mixed areas, the creation and opening of new jobs, and the initiation of a process for the establishment of a transparent financial institution, which is also prejudged by international treaties. In the field of operation of organisations and institutions of indigenous national communities, continuous systemic funding under the budget of the Republic of Slovenia should be continued. The budgets adopted for 2013 and 2014 provide minimum operating conditions for the organisations and institutions of these vulnerable national communities, which the new government must also provide for in possible budget rebalancies. In order to strengthen the public and official use of the Italian or Hungarian language, it is necessary to enforce consistently the constitutional, legal and international standards relating to the position of the languages of the national communities in public administration, judicial authorities, public service providers and holders of public powers which decide on the rights and obligations or legal benefits of individuals or organisations in the national mixed territory of the municipalities. In cooperation with the competent ministry, intensive activities have already begun in the area of improvement and systemic upgrades in this area, which must also be continued within the mandate of the new government. We are convinced that, in order to effectively carry out these and even unlimited specific tasks in the field of the implementation of constitutional and legal provisions relating to the specific rights of members of the Italian and Hungarian national communities, and to coordinate inter-ministerial activities in this regard, a good solution must be sought in the context of the Government and its services in particular from an organisational point of view. The coalition feels similarly, so we strongly hope that we will find an appropriate, politically and operationally appropriate solution together. Finally, I should like to point out that we have received a positive position with regard to these concrete proposals or the expectations of the national communities by the new government coalition. It is our hope that the most important activities and tasks in this area will be able to continue smoothly and to be carried out to the greatest extent possible. In this case, there will be no shortage of willingness for creative cooperation on our part. I also wish the new government team great luck and, above all, success. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The text is by the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u40	Your Honor! The National Assembly and the entire Slovenian policy are now ahead of the mature exam. The appointment of a new government with a new coalition in the middle of the mandate is not a common practice in Slovenian politics. This must have been a difficult situation, and it has been very difficult in the past year. In the face of an extremely difficult economic crisis, which puts us ahead of the most challenging test of independence, we have also witnessed a drastic decline in people's confidence in politics. The latter are responsible for those who have used the last year to impose terror, to break the public sector and the whole of the social subsystems, and for the shameless and brutal recruitment that has been the exclusive condition of the party's choice of belonging and loyalty. The indecisive placement of loyal people in positions has been the strongest since the coalition and with it the government began to break down. Boljek did so after he lost confidence in Alenka Bratušek's election. The holder of the described policy, which, despite different promises, shares people with the opening of ideological wounds of a half-lived history, which destroyed the legal and social state that has given confidence to the public below 15%, and which has launched trade unions, cultures and other citizens in the streets, has a name. It's called the SDS under the leadership of Janez Janša. This is about the Prime Minister of the Government, who likes to threaten with resignation, with a confidant and similar tricks, and when he was called upon to verify his trust, he gave up the subject and held on to the authorities as scrupulously as the natural human right would have been. In the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia we believe that Slovenia deserves better. We're a country of smart heads and good hands. We are a nation of successful individuals and a team spirit. We're a nation of people who can get the best out of themselves when it's the hardest. At the time of the coalition, we heard a lot of evidence that coalition parties were too diverse to lead the country successfully in these difficult times. We're hearing this today, though. It is true that the views of the parties of the new coalition are different. It is also true that they have been in the past and are still today and will also have different perspectives in the future on how to solve individual problems. This is normal and normal for parliamentary democracy, as everywhere in Europe, so we are also in different parties with different programmes and different objectives. However, it does not argue that the successful joint work of the parties to the new coalition is not possible. On the contrary, all parties have shown a great degree of maturity in assessing what is best for the country at a given time. They agree that the most important thing is that Slovenia gets a new government, which will enjoy sufficient support in the National Assembly and hopefully also greater confidence in the public, and which will carry out some key projects. They were able to bridge the differences between key issues and, despite possible calculations on short-term profits, they have managed so much to decide to participate in this scheme that will all sooner than easy. It is also unlikely that he will bring many political points to the participants, and we are aware of that. But this is what our country needs right now. The President of the Government has received a number of criticisms on the quality of the proposed government team. We've heard that the team isn't convincing that it's a wild flower, that it's just an emergency exit, that it's not an optimist or anything. On the contrary, the President of the Government views his government as optimal, and at the same time acknowledges that, unfortunately, some experts, who often perform publicly with an assessment of the situation and the necessary solutions, have not been prepared to assume responsibilities in the first types of fighting. The proposed government team successfully passed the hearings before the competent working bodies of the National Assembly. A number of candidates for ministers have also received support from some opposition members. Despite the scepticism that arose with individual names following the publication of the list of candidates for ministerial posts, they were able to prove that they had the potential and deserve the opportunity to prove themselves by work. The eyes will be fixed on them, and we'll all expect results. The time and opportunities for judging their work and success will be sufficient in the future. A thorough debate on the work of the Government will be in line with the commitment of the President of the Government under the Coalition Treaty within one year at the latest. At that time, it will also be the most appropriate time to assess whether the government and the coalition are taking the country in the right direction or perhaps today's critics have a right and proposed government team in a given political situation simply cannot rule in a way that could push Slovenia's way out of the crisis. If it does, it will be time for the early elections, where the final verdict will be handed down by the electorate. Voters and only voters, no one else. With regard to the key commitments made by the new coalition in the coalition contract, which will measure the performance of the Government's work when the vote on the trust is announced, it is worth noting that we are setting them up with the knowledge that our mandate is limited in time. That is why we are setting ourselves only the tasks that will be able to be accomplished during this time of year. The Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia is convinced and believes that the new mandate-holders with the proposed government team will also be able to reverse the social climate within a short period of time and will re-energise our people with optimism in thinking about the future. Today's vote on the government team therefore gives hope that the period of the severe political crisis in Slovenia, which as a black cloud, hung over our society, will end. It made people feel that the situation was even more difficult and more hopeless. We will support the proposed list for ministers. We believe that she will receive sufficient support and will immediately deal with the problems she has accumulated. The Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia wants a new government president and future ministers and ministers to work successfully. In the end, let me end up like some people like to give parables. If this government is true, as some wildflowers say, I believe you must know that the wild flower is always manageable, but only the one who knows it can control it. The Prime Minister of the Women's Sex Government has an even bigger foundation for this. A wild flower, if mastered by a true man, is ultimately nutritious and produces results. Those who talk about wildflowers must first get to know him and know what they say about him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, Mr Jože Tanko, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u42	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all colleagues and Madam President of the Government! This new government realizes what this same composition was unable to do immediately after the early 2011 elections. The balance of the relative winner, Mr Jankovic, was too great, and the National List was then just too strong a current around Šuštersič, who did not want to descend into an uncertain, substantively unfinished coalition of the winners of the elections, Jankovic's Positive Slovenia. The analytical and professional part of the National Gazette was aware of many traps of such superficially prepared cooperation. The presidents of four parties, the National List, DeSUS, the Slovenian People's Party and New Slovenia, then asked Janša to take over the government. In their opinion, Janša was the only one who was able to take over the government and at the same time determined enough to make urgent changes, reforms that would stop Slovenia from falling freely. Janša and the SDS responded to the initiative, accepted the risk, prepared the coalition agreement and voted on 10 February last. Hard work has begun and in effectively less than a year some extremely difficult projects have been realized and important projects have been implemented for the fate of Slovenia. Labour market reforms have been adopted and pension reforms adopted by the former, the Pahor government has not been able to reconcile with the social partners in three years. A savings law, so-called ZUJF, has been passed, which has cut and saved for the first time in those who were above a certain average or who received privileged revenue from public funds and not from social services. The former, Pahor's government, in its mandate, has previously exclusively intervened in the rights of those who are on average – to social transfers, children's allowances, scholarships, the property of the weakest. Janša's government has approached to address the problems of the banking system and to address the weaknesses in the management of the remainder, with an unstolen part of the national property. The Slovenian state holding company and the so-called bad bank are a suitable, optimal response to the economic and financial crisis for the country and citizens. However, they are not, as is clear from the discussions of the new coalition, the real response to the crisis for the minority that had financial self-service in both segments, which was why the expected returns and dividends were not justified, but required enormous recapitalisation that the state property was operational at all. These recapitalisations, too, have over time been reduced by the use of various techniques at the expense of the electorate at home and abroad. In both areas, the time for responsibility was coming and this had to be prevented. The blockades of both laws indicated what would happen if two laws aimed at improving the financial situation, improving governance with State ownership, linked disappointed policies, privileged lobbying, trade unions, the media, and if supported by media-promoted uprising processes and protests, the outcome was fully predictable. Since the summer of last year, it has been predictable what will happen and how it will happen since December. A report from the Anti-Corruption Commission was announced and a political coup took place in January this year. Despite the difficult financial and social conditions, the spread of protests of all forms, media attacks and the demeanor of some individuals in coalition parties, fundamental reforms have been adopted, with which we have raised confidence outside, in those who accompany us, evaluate us and depend on us. Since we are not financially self-sufficient, we need about 3% of external resources per year for around 3% of GDP. Perhaps more will be needed, and no matter how much we receive them. This addiction will certainly last for quite some time. In this short time, we have also done several other important things. One of these is a significant appreciation for the transport of students and students, and we helped each public transport user, without further burdening the budget, with a hundred or more euros a month. The lower transport costs of students and students mean at least as much as the additional scholarship and the beneficiaries are mainly students and students from rural areas. There were many similar measures, many things have been appreciated and simplified. In this place, I would like to thank all of you who have participated in these projects, and especially those who have persisted to the end. We are now approaching a vote on a new team that has been representing itself for two days by committee. Since the exit of the National Gazette, DeSUS, the Slovenian People's Party has spent a lot of time in the void. There have been many unnecessary and unfounded reports about the Janša government and SDS, all from the collapse of the Janša government onward. Much too much, especially since the opposition has had a large majority in the National Assembly since January this year, even a two-thirds or constitutional majority in the last month, and has not been able to find a candidate for a mandate, problems have been with the candidates for ministers, also with the programme. If anyone, then the evidence should be given to those who are now entering the coalition who have not been able for too long to make the necessary determination, and in the meantime, Dr. Mir Cerar and many other prominent, eminent names are completely unnecessary. All that is happening with the formation of the government of Alenka Bratušek, we have experienced, experienced at the formation and inauguration of the previous left, the Government of Pahor. One pyar, one smug, one big word, what will be different, and what will be the end of it without offering any fact or commitment. You're dementing yourself right now. The coalition did not reply whether the cooperation agreement was written for the period until the early elections, for the time until the vote on the confidential person within one year or for the remainder of the term of office. All the dates are in the air. Lukšič, Virant, Erjavec spoke out loud about early elections, and they were quietly doing something completely different. What's the other one, it's not clear, it's very blurry. The objectives of the agreement, which is signed, are also not measurable. So everything that's going to happen is going to be fine, and it's going to be in line. When we look at the cooperation agreement, we can see that it is very general, without firm commitments and objectives, modest. It has 20 pages, of which is a third of the empty space. There are only short sentences and addresses on the entire page. What's written is either controversial or you've denied your signature the next morning. What the President of the Government said today about the programme is the personal views of the candidates for ministers on the resources and content of the resources and not on the common policy or agreement. The first sentence of your agreement speaks of the calming of political passions in the country by raising the political culture and culture of patient dialogue, but the first move by Erjavec, which took place the following morning, was the ultimate demand for the discharge of the President of the Council of the DeSUS Mete Vese Valentinčič, who was elected only a few days earlier in secret elections. First, Erjavec in the world was allowed to confirm himself as a candidate for minister, then immediately after Jankovic’s example, he just froze and left for apparent political illegality. He transferred all political obligations to Gantar, except for hearing. In Viranta, the National Gazette, the visible members shall withdraw or even withdraw. We understand that, because of the indemnity or principle of not being prepared to face the key solutions, what they did in the previous term would seem to be the right thing to do in the new coalition concept. Minister of Labour Anja Kopač Mrak was the closest co-worker of Minister Svetlik, who undertook all the key reforms in the Pahor government, solely because of disputes and non-alignment of reforms with the social partners, due to non-dialogue. The main opponent of the Pahor government was not the opposition, but the unions and partly civil society. These carried out referendums on key SD projects in the previous term, and now those personnel who did so and implemented them are returning as indispensable personnel for this coalition. Nor was the ministerial team co-ordinated, since an hour before the signing of the coalition agreement, none of the presidents of the other coalition partners knew the name of the key minister, the finance minister. The name of the Minister was particularly important for the Civil List. That's what they said. On this basis, they voted to join the coalition, although the President of the Virant National Gazette did not know this name until the next day. They were miserable to see both Virant and Lukšič on the Views of Slovenia when they finally heard the name of the Minister's candidate an hour before the signing on TV. The Citizens' List, the Social Democrats, DeSUS gave the mandate holder a blank menu and they said they were coordinated in everything. The mandate holder also has incredible communication problems, since not even three, four of the most basic sentences, which are repeated as an old record, can be said without a leaf. It reads everything, even the x-th repetition, that today's political crisis in the country is over, that you wouldn't be mistaken, that you wouldn't say anything unplanned, or that you wouldn't notice that she's scared and insecure or that you would just take her away at the moment. It is an expression of infatuation and professional and political weakness. This team doesn't have the necessary trust built-in either. If they look at each other as much as the mandate holder and the presidents of the parties, then there will be no time to work. One more thing, Jankovic is not a shadow, not a ghost, as all the new members of the coalition would like to show, but an eminence, not just a gray one. Among other things, it continues to decide and manage approximately EUR 300 million of public funds from the Municipality of Ljubljana and probably with at least so much through public companies and other companies. The channels of money flow from the Municipality of Ljubljana to various addresses, including private accounts or sports companies, are untransparent. Some members of the Jankovic coalition also took part directly in these operations. The Commission for the Prevention of Corruption may not even investigate these transactions and flows, but it is covered by political votes in the Ljubljana Municipality and by parliamentary votes in the National Assembly. Some of them are in a double role because they are city councillors and MPs, which they will become today even a minister. Jankovic does not only decide at the level of the municipal municipality, he also decides in the National Assembly and he will also decide in the new government. The fifth Members of Positive Slovenia come from the city municipality. Two of the 13 ministers are from the quota of the city municipality, entirely Jankovic's man. She is still attached to him because she owes him a great deal, and so are the others, and you don't even hide it. That is why it is so difficult for the mandate-holders to say clear words of distance from Jankovic. Two ministers of this government come from the Faculty of Social Sciences. If Mr Lukšič were still Minister, there would be three of them, and we could just put together in the Government a kind of ad hoc Senate in which to decide on the authenticity of the Master's mandate to the President of the Government. Integrity is a problem of this coalition, far from the standards with which the former President of the National Assembly and candidate for Minister, Mr Gregor Virant, spread throughout the year. He also does not live up to his high principles. But you have to have a pre-functioning and functionary objectionable history so you can stand by and take over this team. You're just so manageable. Several candidates for ministers are burdened by suspected abuse of position or unethical, privileged acquisition of public funds. These are abuses of travel orders, state and local subsidies, compensations. Some also received an enormous "smelling" for a time when the alleged stench would affect only their grass on the plot, since they had not yet been there and consequently did not smell bad air. Some have received cheap services from the public institute Brdo. The President of the Government is charged with the sum of plagiarism of the Master's Order, but she has not proved to be a part of the Supervisory Councils in Novi Credit Bank Maribor, the Public Institute of Brdo, the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia or the Komunali Kranj. How will you fight organised crime if some are suspected of providing with organised abuse financial resources for personal needs, sports societies or the needs of their societies, and are now coming to the top of the political pyramid. We do not understand how work will be done in the new coalition under the so-called agreement from Pireshica. The call for tenders will be subject to a specific model of the modified criteria in order for all or most of the transactions to go into the right hands. This is a concept similar to that of highways and the famous Zemonal Agreement. Here we have the Pyrean Agreement, we had some consortium at the Stožice and maybe some other place. All these agreements may be taken care of by the new Minister of Economy, who is also burdened by certain abuses in drawing on public, state aid and also in cooperation with the imported project Tehnopolis in Celje. How will the economy and the banking system start if such arrangements are the basis for work and if we do not clear up history and clean up the banking system if such agreements from Pireshica arise for other areas? However, ladies and gentlemen, in the new coalition, you are not consistent in your actions, even less principled. With the accession and signature of the coalition treaty, you have established or enacted double criteria. One criterion for our immediate target of pogroms, and the other for yours, which, regardless of the weight of current or previous acts, are untouchable. The presentation of key candidates for ministers was poor. If such low standards of knowledge and knowledge are to be met by the Finance Minister, then we can be very concerned. You can pull a candidate like that out of anywhere. He didn't say anything about any important question, or he just said, "I don't know," or "I'll tell you in three months." That is why it is so much more surprising to see the new coalition's enthusiasm for the candidate and, above all, the weekly support for the candidate. Similarly, the presentation of the candidate for the economy was weak. We will closely monitor the implementation of the Slovenian State Holding Act and the law on the so-called bad bank. We will see whether the will to clear up historical developments in banks and state-owned companies will occur or whether the assets of illicit origin will be decommissioned and criminalised for the most serious crimes. There is little hope, since the key resource comes into the hands of the accompanying personnel, perhaps even participating in the formation of a financial hole. During the year when the Minister of Justice was Minister of Justice, candidate Plitcanic did significantly too little in the field of judicial backlogs, speed of trial, insolvency and anti-Takun law and more to hope for success. As an inappropriate choice for a defence minister, we assess Roman Jakič, mainly because of his views and actions against the formation of his own army at the time of independence. The very person who actively opposed the establishment of the Slovenian Army is now expected to take the lead and take care of its development. We're assessing this move for mockery. More will be said about the other candidates in the debates of our Members and Members. For the first time, we have a government that is not included in the European space, as the two parties, including the largest coalition party, are not included in any European political association. How the work will take place in the European Council is a big question. Things don't just happen there at official meetings. Key decisions are being drawn up in political groups and Slovenia will be eliminated there. It hopes that the government will be effective with such low integrity and expertise, not much. You haven't convinced us with your work so far and not with your answers, so we're going to vote against the government. And there's one more thing. At the time of the constitution of the Janša government, Member of the National List, Katarina Hočevar, well argued why she did not support the entry of the National List into the coalition with Jankovica Positive Slovenia. After one year, nothing has changed. Technology in Positive Slovenia remained the same and Jankovic is still the emperor. This position of the National Gazette, perhaps also of the Ambassador of Hočevar, has changed radically. If I paraphrase her statement, then we can calmly conclude that some of you will still be selling salads cheaply, they will be accounted for by big robberies and deals, something will still have to be devoted to selected sports companies, and in the end the payment will be delayed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u43	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. The first word is Mrs Masha Kociper, Mr Bevk alone is being prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Madam President. When I listened to Mr Tank in front of me, I came to the conclusion that no one else can and can lead the country as only and only the Slovenian Democratic Party, so I wonder how it is that after one year of their rule we are in a situation where we are, and that we are now forming a new government in my opinion the most difficult situation ever in the Republic of Slovenia. Not only is the situation much worse than one year ago in the economic and fiscal field, much worse, and this is largely due to the outgoing coalition, it is also in the field of social conditions in the country and the feelings of the people they have about their country. The reputation of politics is further reduced, if possible, and people in the streets demand radical solutions. In Positive Slovenia, and myself personally, we are still convinced that early elections at this time would be the worst possible solution of all. Events in Maribor confirm this in my opinion. With this I am not referring to an elected candidate, but to a record low electoral participation, which shows that even residents of the rebel, protesting Maribor have not gathered enough will and energy to go to the elections at this time. Untrust and pessimism, along with a poor economic situation, could lead to a similar result being repeated at national level. This passivity, in the face of unchanged electoral legislation, would probably lead to practically the same political parties appearing in Parliament with minimally mixed cards or possibly new alternatives, which are not yet organised in a way, again in my opinion, so that they can actively take power and draw the country out of such a catastrophic economic and political situation. In such situations, it would be very possible for the country to fall from one political crisis to another, and this could be disastrous. In Positive Slovenia, as the largest parliamentary party and political party, we have taken seriously and responsibly the creation of a new government and have been forced to compromise in this process. This time, too, the negotiations were difficult, and on this occasion, once again, a sincere congratulations to our president, who has shown extraordinary calmness, sobriety and maturity at work. The outcome of the negotiation process was that the ministerial team ahead of us, for which the President of the Government is beautiful, on such a beautiful journey, said it was optimal for her. I also think that the final ransom is very good and that every candidate who has taken responsibility deserves a medal for bravery. It is not only that we make up the team in extremely difficult, impossible economic and political conditions, but also that it is a government that has a rather unclear deadline, and it is probably clear that people in such circumstances, in particular those who have jobs for indefinite periods and so on, are having difficulty leaving their jobs and possibly endangering the existence of themselves and their families. The particular problem of our country is also the personal discredits which are immediately suffered in the media by those who are only mentioned as potential candidates for functions. It seems that at this point in Slovenia an ideal candidate is considered a perfect anonymous, ideally someone who has never done anything before, because whoever works usually does. Also, if you are not mistaken, any work and activity can be interpreted in any way. Discreditation of individuals who opt for political functions has become a national culture, including a non-critical submission of complaints on average. Unfortunately, these complaints by law enforcement authorities are all too late to receive an epilogue and are rejected as unfounded and thus burden an individual, a country and also a policy. Anyway, we've got an optimal ministerial team ahead of us. In addition to the distribution by the client key, we worked especially to include both sexes and to use both experience and youth in the team. On average, the team is very young, 46 years of age is on average, and may represent some kind of beginning of a generational break in the political field. The youngest member of this team is not even 33 years old, and we wanted to give a strong symbolic message to young people on whom the future stands and who say too often that they feel excluded from social and political developments. We hope that Tina's election, if it comes to it, will signal as many young people as possible that the political engagement of young people has meaning and that young people can make a key contribution to the further social development of our country in political functions. The proposed government is also a mix of experienced politicians and new faces. Especially a large number of new faces seem to comply with the demands of people. In this regard, I also consider a new face to be those who did not enter into the politics of business or professional species this moment, but perhaps a year or a few years ago. I also believe that the team is largely made up of experts, and I do not agree with the idea that an expert ceases to be an expert simply because he entered politics and crossed the door of Parliament. Our Stanko Stepišnik, a candidate for the Minister of Economy, has created and successfully managed a company that employs more than 300 people and has received numerous European awards for its work. Probably all this knowledge and experience did not just come from his active involvement in the work of politics and parliament. I am also proud of new faces such as the face of the Minister of Finance. I have to tell you that I have had a great time in the last few days watching attempts to find some stain in his past and to turn it into an appropriate political drawer. Do we really not believe in this society that there are capable people without political botts and agendas that are not burdened by political past and political resentments, experts who are willing to expose themselves at a time when the state needs them? I believe such people exist. The Government responds to calls from civil society after greater participation and dialogue with the State Secretary to the Prime Minister of the Government. I think that this placement is very happy and will allow it to coordinate the work of several pillars and really help to develop civil society and its hearing. At the same time, I firmly believe, and in this place, I tell the protestors that big and relatively rapid changes are, in my opinion, the most possible when they are involved not only in civil society, but also in institutionalised policy, a policy that already has some leverage to use. That's how solutions are best possible. In this sense, our headless opposition to everything and to everyone and the extreme solutions that cannot even be seen in the notes in any country in the world are not close. I am much closer to intellectual and critical thinking, for example, by young representatives of the University of Labor and Punkers, because every time I listen to the fresh, well-intentioned and unburdened ideas of their young people. I conclude with the idea that the proposed government team is the optimal combination, which, in the event that it will act as a team against the common goal and with a hand in hand, is indeed able to make a move in our society and change things for the better, in particular in terms of people's confidence in the common future, good intentions in the management of matters and in the spirit of respect for equality and solidarity for the benefit of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Successful work, dear Government, and successful work by the President of the Government! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Only Bevk has the word. Mr Branko Kurnjek and then Mrs Marija Plevčak should be prepared for him.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! The government of Janez Janša had to say good-bye to the constructive non-trust put forward by the members of the Positive Slovenia Group, the National List, the DeSUS and the Social Democrats at the end of February. For the new President of the Government, the first woman in Slovenia, was elected Ambassador of Positive Slovenia, mag. Alenka Bratusek. As early as early as March, we adopted a new law on government, reinstituting a separate Ministry of Culture, the Prosecutor's Office includes under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice and retains the autonomy of the Slovenian Government for Slovenians in place and around the world and the Minister without a licence to run it. Each government has the right to organise its work under Article 114 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The Government Act further regulates the composition, operation, number of powers and organisation of ministries, taking into account the opinion of the public concerned. Before the first early elections in Slovenia alone at the end of 2011, the parties encouraged mainly by some media issues, which they will be competing with the government with at least a ministry, as if only a number of resources and not in particular competence to run or operate the government as a whole would be important for the success of the government. The decision to create a mega ministry for education, science, culture and sport has proved particularly poor, bringing together three previous ministries. The fact is that it is very difficult to manage this wide-ranging work area effectively. Culture is one of the creatively most pervasive, socially critical and development-oriented activities. In Slovenian history it is also of particular importance because of its role in the formation of the Slovenian nation and Slovenian statehood. The sudden and unimaginable decision to abolish the Ministry of Culture had unpredictable and difficult consequences in its aftermath, as the management models from the field of education were uncritically transferred to the field of culture, followed by harsh interventions in the functioning of its institutions. The former government has taken this decision without prior analysis and consultation of the interested public. Caring for indigenous Slovenian national minorities in neighbouring countries, for Slovenian expatriates and residents, and caring for the promotion of their contacts with their homeland is a constitutional category, as enshrined in Article 5 of the Slovenian Constitution. The Act on Relations with Slovenians in Substitute and Worldwide, which was adopted in 2006 in the National Assembly, also introduces the role of Minister for Slovenians in place and around the world. Both mandate holders respected this legal norm, both in 2008 and 2012. The decision to maintain the independence of the office and the role of the Minister running it is a good decision. It was also welcomed by our cousins in place and around the world. This should take into account the fact that more than half a million Slovenes and Slovenians, half a million of our relatives, live outside their homeland. The Social Democrats will have three ministers in the new government. The Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities will become Dr. Anja Kopač Mrak, Minister of Education, Science and Sport will become Dr. Jernej Pikalo and Minister of Agriculture and the Environment will become Mag. Diane Jedhan. There was a lot of hints about that mag. Alenka Bratušek will not be able to form a new government. However, if it were to happen by accident that governments would not be able to put together, this would mean an eccentric violation of the Slovenian Constitution and a dangerous precedent for similar situations in the future. The first priority of the new government must be to launch economic development and new jobs, or we will soon get closer in 1993, when there were as many as 133 000 unemployed people in our country. In addition, we have identified as priorities the political calming in the country, the consolidation of public finances, the efficient use of funds from the new financial perspective of the European Union 2014-2020, the strengthening of the development potentials of the public sector, the wide-ranging public health sector, transparent governance of state assets, the resolution of bad banking claims, the fight against economic crime and corruption, the reduction of judicial backlogs, de-de-barcation and sustainable use of natural resources. In accordance with the agreement of all the Presidents of the Parliamentary Parties to the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Borut Pahor, the ratification of the Accession Treaty for Croatia and the amendment of the Constitution on referendum decision-making were also among the urgent tasks. On the Committee on Foreign Policy, we have already travelled the way for the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union on 1 July 2013, because we voted in favour of the law on ratification by all the members of the home committee present. 15 of us voted in favour and no one opposed. President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia mag. Alenka Bratušek also made a written commitment to invest in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia within one year of her work. During this period, the world received two new leaders. After Benedict XVI’s surprising resignation, the Catholic Church received a new pope. This became the Argentine cardinal of Buenos Aires, Jorge Mario Bergoglio, who named himself Francisek in memory of the French Asian, the provost of the poor. The People's Republic of China will now be led by the new President of Xi Jinping, who also took over the leadership of the Central Military Commission and became Secretary General of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China last year. In 2011, when I was a member of the delegation of the National Assembly, chaired by President Pavel Gantar, in China, we were accepted in Beijing by Xi, then Vice-President of the State. The President of the People's Republic of China highlighted a number of still untapped opportunities for cooperation in the fields of science, technology, chemical and pharmaceutical industries. He also highlighted the area of transport infrastructure and Luka Koper, which he considered to be a favourable transport route for the transport of goods from Asian countries to markets in Central and Southern Europe. He also pointed out that China, with our country, is ready to explore the potential of investment projects in Slovenia, where both government institutions and private companies should be involved. I would here specifically propose investments in railway infrastructure and in the framework of the state road infrastructure investment in 3, 3a. and the 4th development axis and the modernisation of the entire state road infrastructure. Will we have the strength and courage to accept the hand offered from a distant land? The leaders of Francesek and Xi will take care of more than two billion and a half people in one way or another. The problems we are dealing with in Slovenia with two million people, compared to the problems facing Pope Francis and President Xi, seem much easier to solve. We will see who will have more happiness and courage – Francesek, Xi or Slovenian government under the leadership of Alenka Bratušek. Good luck!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Kurnjek has the floor, followed by Mrs Marija Plevčak and then by Mrs Jasmina Opec.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u48	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I must say that I have been looking forward to and hoped for this day after a turbulent political period. However, I am aware, and we must all be aware that the story could be quite different if the Prime Minister, who is currently in business, decided differently. Two options were available. The first was that, according to a report from the anti-corruption commission, Prime Minister Janez Janša would withdraw from his post and leave him to someone else. I would not only make the right and expected move but would thus burden the country, my client and also the international reputation of the country, which, after being stopped as the third highest man of power, represents in the world. The second option was for the Prime Minister to decide to seek out a confidant in the National Assembly. I wouldn't have gotten a secretary expected, but I would have opened the way to early elections. What would bring you to Slovenian political space is very difficult to predict. It's probably not something that's too new and useful. Since Janez Janša did not decide on any of these options, there was only one possible way under Slovenian law that could cut across an unsustainable political situation that held the state and citizens and citizens in its hands as a prisoner. Who knows, perhaps one of these paths could prove to be even better than the third one we have before us today. On the third difficult path, she was the only one who dared to step in. Alenka Bratušek, who, unfortunately for her courage, quickly became a victim of discredit and instigation, who nevertheless have their own truth. This truth will be sought by the relevant institutions. I trust her words and the assurance that in any case she will do what is expected and only right, as someone else may have done before her. Although this must not be any norm or guidance, I personally am particularly pleased that even symbolically during this difficult period she was willing to take into her hands a member of the gentler and even more beautiful sex. Otherwise, stereotyped for girls and women, we say that they may be a little more naive in life, but they are also stereotyped to be better and easier to find in critical situations. In case of problems, their focus is focused on the heart of the problem and not around it. So be it in this case. It is also necessary to give all recognition to people who have decided to try, as future ministers and ministers in their areas, to do everything in their power to the benefit of citizens and citizens. Some of them were dissipated in political areas, some in professional areas, some in combination with both. These differences will not ultimately play a major role if their results are good and encouraging. Finally, allow me to briefly highlight the role of the National List in the period following the KPK report. According to the report, the Civil Code required the withdrawal of the President of the Government so that the same government with the other President could proceed smoothly and without burden. It also demanded the resignation of the president of the then largest opposition party, Positive Slovenia, who was also heavily burdened by the KPK report. Further procedures are known, and I am convinced that the political space and thus the whole of Slovenia is at least partially cleansed and that credibility and hope in the rule of law have been restored to a certain extent. I wish the new government all good and as few obstacles as possible in its path. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mrs. Maria Plevčak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u50	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Very handsome and kind, and I hope that even a relaxed greeting will be given to all the Members who are present! Today we are discussing the new government presented to us by Commissioner Alenka Bratušek. Although the program is short because it is written for a period of one year, I do not see the point of not knowing how to go into detailed explanations. The main points are those which the Government could or would have to address and turn to the right solution. I believe that the four items she has outlined in her programme are sufficient, and I hope that the prime task of the new government will be to launch the economy and regulate the banking system. This will also be the basis for a positive direction or for improving and finding new jobs, as they are also in the background of unemployment, especially young people, and this is a relatively large problem. I have just heard today that one young unemployed person costs an average of EUR 10 000 600 per year in the European Union. These numbers need to be taken into account. The economic and social sector will need to be strengthened, the rule of law must be put in place, and there will be a need for confidence in independent institutions, the anti-corruption commission that carried out the government or its President so far, because it has not accepted any other alternative and has insisted on its position. It is necessary to support the Court of Auditors and to allow it to operate independently, as well as the National Investigation Office. I think this is Mrs. Alenka and the future government well known. I hope that the new government will ease tensions and that work will run normally, so that we will deal with matters on a regular basis. There are times when there is an exception, but what happened last year was a little too bad. I also believe that words and arrangements apply in good government, even though we have everything not once, but five times written down. I believe in a just government that will be worthy of the trust of both us Members and of all the citizens who have demonstrated their disagreement with the protests on the streets. I want everything good for the government, and I believe that it will deal with the content and ensure the stability and satisfaction of all those who believe in it. Good luck to the new government!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mrs. Jasmina Opec has the floor. Mr Jožef Horvat and Mr Jerko Čehovin are preparing for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u52	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice hello to you all! After the early elections in 2011, the then relative winner of the elections failed, did not see, or perhaps did not hope to form a government that would fall into an extremely difficult area, regulating the then chaotic situation in that country. Courage and determination at the time showed five parliamentary parties who formed a ministerial team under the tactics of Prime Minister Janez Janša. It was not easy for them to establish an anarchic order in the ministries, to put in order all that was in vain, which was in disarray. They were also expected to take rapid and effective measures. As we look back at this period today, on the one hand, it seems impossible for them to succeed. They have started to build confidence in this country, and it is right to thank this ministerial team, which has worked in this one year, for all their actions, for all their sacrifices and work they have done in the past year. When things finally started to turn out better, events that were familiar to us all began. I don't want to trouble them here and now. However, I hope that the relevant institutions will give these events final and clear epilogues. In the Slovenian People's Party, we considered that the best solution to the situation at the time was the early elections, which would basically restore trust between people and politics. Unfortunately, the majority in the National Assembly have decided differently, signed a coalition treaty and formed their ministerial team, which we will vote on today. A new government, a new story, they say. But this time, this story is a little different. The story of the new government comes at a time of great disappointment, in a time of great apathy, anger and sorrow, but also at a time of great expectation. You have an extremely difficult and difficult task ahead of you. I hope you are aware of this task, as you must realize that there is no time for good words and good words, but for hard work and garage work. Rapid and effective measures and results will be needed to change the situation of our country for the better. As an opposition party, we will look at you firmly at this work, but we will still know how to offer you a hand for cooperation when we recognize your actions as good, for the benefit of our citizens. Although we still believe in the Slovenian People's Party that we should choose a different path, the path of early elections, although we would like to have more experts in your ministerial ranks, even though we are not excited about the product of your agreement, which is called a coalition agreement, we want you to succeed – because of people, because of the present and future of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor. It will be Mrs Sonja Ramšak's turn to follow Mr Chehovin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Madam President of the Government! He's probably listening to us somewhere. In the time series, today is the moment when our government is being hailed, and it is the moment when the new government is coming. It is beautiful, at least that I feel that in a few hours I thank the Government, which will begin to turn over business in a few hours, to the entire government team led by First Minister Janez Janša, to thank all coalition partners at the government and parliamentary level, to thank you, too, the opposition so far. A few things were just things we took together, and they must be the best for Slovenia. Here I also have to thank our colleagues Gönch and Battelli, who are neither in position nor in the coalition, but have always had and always have the right citizenship. Normally, you don't expect me to support the new government because I supported our government. Probably won't blame you for that. At the outset, I repeat once again that we want and urgently need to give the new government an opportunity to show its knowledge, its competence and to do something good for Slovenia. I am pleased that in some way you have listened to our debate, perhaps even my personal debate. I don't consider it an honor, but I'm here to give you a confession. I warned you not to terminate the Slovenian office in place of the world and the minister or minister who will take care of or care of Slovenians in place and around the world. If you have not listened to me, I believe you have listened to Mr Boris Pahor, Mr Valentin Inzko and others who have warned of your wrong intention at the time. It's a good thing you didn't make up your mind. The most common responses from citizens to the survey question presented in the introduction by the President are the impetus of the economy and the fight against corruption. The ones we were at the top of the economy in Brdo pri Kranj last autumn, we have heard that the economy first requires the rule of law. If I take both answers away, I can say that it follows from here that one of the first priorities of this government should be the rule of law. That's what the street demanded. What she wants today, I don't know what she's gonna want tomorrow, and I don't know because I'm not a futurist. Among the 12 priorities, you wrote down the rule of law concerns to 9th and 10th place. In the area of the rule of law, spring will take place only then, colleagues and colleagues, when mayor Zoran Jankovic will no longer be the leader of my capital and our capital. There's been a lot of talk about this today, so I guess there'll be a lot more. Everything else as leaving the mayor's city is just a bluff, it's a demagogy, it's a lie. This is not good, and there will be no peace in this country for so long. My colleague Bevk has already told us what was happening on the Foreign Policy Committee today. I won't say it again. I thank him. I conclude that, in the first phase of this morning, we have already realised the first of the two commitments made at the meeting of the Presidents of the Parliamentary Parties with the President of the Republic of Slovenia. There will be a second phase in the coming days. The commitments made in your agreement are being realised before this government comes forward, and that is also a good thing. About the economy. Respect is worth the management experience of our colleague mag. Stanka Stepišnik, future Minister for Economic Development and Technology. Managers' experience is certainly also good at working in the government, but it is necessary to know that the management of such a demanding economic society is something like comparing the intranet and the Internet with the management of the economic ministry. But I'm glad we're with the Mags. I'm glad to have you cleared up for steppes before the time of day. I expect Mr Stepišnik not to forget the consistent implementation of the law on development support for the Pomurska region. While there will be a minister on the ministerial team, the Minister, who is now respected by the fellow Member of the Magi. Diana jeedan. I believe he will not forget Pomurje, even though the minister of all Slovenes and Slovenes will. I expect a lot from him, a lot. Some people told me — this is amazing — that I supported Dr. Cuffer, the minister of finance candidate. That's not true. It is not involved and will not receive my support, even because it intends to relax the Slovenian State Holding, only to entrust it with the management of state property, not ownership. This means that the Slovenian state holding company will be transformed back into the former AUKN, which was created on the basis of disability legislation, as noted by renowned Slovenian professors in the field of law. A Slovenian state-owned holding company is not a holding company. I place my trust in Dr. Cuffer that he should make a bold, smart and transparent privatisation or, as my colleague, Stepišnik says, the country must be disinvested. I'm also putting it on your heart, don't make unnecessary cosmetic changes, changes due to changes. This was pointed out to those who were present at the Slovenian State Holding Council 13. 3. 2013 in the State Council. The high frequency of changes works in such a way that there is no change. Let me finish. I place the new government on the heart of the slightly adjusted thought of yesterday of St. Francis' Father, as already mentioned by his colleague Bevk, who is called Papa Simpaticus, because this applies to all of us: "Let us never forget that the true authority is serving and that if the government wants to exercise its authority, it must increasingly enter into service." As far as the international activities of the National Assembly are concerned. As a member of the Committee on Foreign Policy, I am disappointed that today, a new coalition, at the College of Presidents of the National Assembly, you have brutally banned the international activity of my colleague, Ivi Dimic. A few days ago, you decided that our colleague could travel, and our colleagues from New Slovenia were preventing international activity, even her fellow citizen, colleague Braniselj Richard. Unbelievable! That's the beginning of this coalition. Come on, come together, think about it again and correct your mistake on the first day of this Slovenian spring! We have reduced the costs of international activities four times in 2012, according to 2010. New Slovenia has announced that it must not be engaged in international cooperation. Colleagues and colleagues, that's not how you do it! Fix this mistake! Like I started, I'm gonna finish. I do not support this government, but it needs to be given an opportunity, and I will support it with good solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u55	Thank you very much, Mr. Horvath. The following is Mr Jerko Čehovin, followed by Mrs Sonja Ramšak and then Mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u56	Thank you, Madam Vice President. A good greeting to all Members and Members of Parliament! Today we have heard many things in the opening presentations. I must say, the new opposition has not disappointed me, especially not her biggest client. I was afraid that we might have some kind of reconciliation talk today, but apparently this agenda continues. Nevertheless, it is undeniable that the first spring day – at 12.12. the spring – will bring us the 11th Slovenian government, with a woman at the head. In my view, it is even more important that the parliamentary arithmetic created so far replaces the coalition that received the majority support of citizens at the early November 2011 elections. You could say that the elections that were then stolen are somehow going back to where they were supposed to be. I don't think the government has done anything wrong. The two reforms that we have adopted with our votes could be among the few success stories, but I think the main problem with the government so far was that it has taken account of the dictates of international financial markets, and in particular of a mantra that is still not real today. The brutal financial consolidation, which has been the priority of this government, has, by the famous acceptance of the ZUJF as a legal, economic advantage, by the way, also dealt with ideological terms, if I use the term, opponents or disgruntled people, and has in particular stressed the need to reduce all consumption. Okay, hold on, but not linear. The one who had already been saving was now further affected, but the one who had already lived a little more widely did not need it. Fiscal consolidation has reduced consumption and deepened the recession. In the recession, the private sector is saving and thus increasing or encouraging an additional recession. In such cases, therefore, it is necessary to act in such a way as to increase exports and investments. So far, the government has not been successful. The biggest disappointment was the ministers, of whom we expected the most, the ones who were supposed to run this machine. This is the Minister of Economy, who has been so characterised by Prime Minister Janša and his Minister of Infrastructure, who has done nothing in one year except two toll stations, which would be useful for that country or which would increase its economic activity. Not to count a regulation on the classification of objects, because it was the law that in some ways increased or legalised so-called black constructions. When we look at how the economic policy of the previous government has dealt with problems, we see that it has had a mixed order or priorities. As it was said, first of all financial consolidations, banks which, according to all the eminent experts, were the biggest problem – not by themselves, but by themselves, but by banks in which the bad claims of companies were accumulated and thus transferred to the country – and the previous government did not move until the end of last half of last year, just before the deadline of the European Central Bank threatened to recapitalise these banks. How did we recapitalize them? With little talk, however, part of the deposits owed to the former Finance Minister Križanič have been converted into so - called Coco bonds. These have now practically increased the country's ownership share in banks. Banks were the only ones in the order of rescue. Then all of a sudden we had an epiphany and it was said, "Now we must quickly accept the management of state property, the so-called state holding company, and the concept of a bad bank." When we objected, not to the holding company as such, but to transfer the property from the country to the holding company, it was then said that it must be both. With ease, even in this National Assembly, we have waived our rights and transferred state property to a private society. Just so fast. In this House, however, it was marked that a type of original powers were transferred to the executive branch. The first branch of the government has collapsed at the expense of the executive branch. To list only some powers – raise VAT and some other things that we have passed on without discussion. Nevertheless, I must say that this fear, that the rehabilitation of banks is not a priority in our country, does not. It's a priority, just not at the expense of a bad bank like it was configured. Weak banks are usually established or formed at the beginning of the crisis, not at the end of the crisis. At the end of the crisis, action must be taken quickly and decisively. Above all, cash flows in assets, dead property should be activated. We have a series of frozen cash flows in apartments, in companies that are in forcible settlement or bankruptcy, and we can't run it. So this is also an answer to what the priorities of the new government are. The combined economic policy cost of the government so far is seen in this way by drawing the balance that what has been saved in expenditure has been lost in growth and income. However, if we include the famous ZUJF, which has already fallen at two points in the Constitutional Court, this is on the regressions of public servants and on pensions, I can say that this savings are negligible or that unfortunately we have upset the public more, have intervened in some of the rights acquired and have saved the finances at the expense of the rights acquired. Of course, all of this is permissible, but not in the way that some are discriminated against. This was also, I will say, the characteristic of the government so far, that it was very much in favour of measures that discriminated. I'm not talking about ideological matters. That's what we're talking about. But I don't think it's helping. And what's the difference between you and us? If I look only at these hearings – I will only draw a report on last year’s hearings. When we interviewed candidates for ministers last year, these ministers, with the exception of one, received very high support, including the opposition. Let's say Radovan Žerjav: vote on the committee, 12 in favour, one in favour. Franz Bogovich: 16 for, no problem. Dr. Vinko Gorenak was the only one who cut himself worse: 9 in, 6 in. Minister of the Turk brand: 12 for, 2 for. Minister Gantar: 14 for, no problem. Karel Viktor Erjavec: 11 for, 3 for. Dr. Janez Šuštersič: 15 for, no problem. Ludmila Novak: 10 for, no problem. Aleš Hojs: 8 for, no problem. What does that mean? That we gave these people a chance to show them what they know. Well, after one year the result of their work appears, but not in the sense that the opposition is guilty, but the coalition has failed. You couldn't hold the coalition together and that's why the government fell apart. If we have intervened in this process in a way that we have applied constitutional provisions that are appropriate in such a case, there is nothing wrong with it, so I do not understand why all potential candidates must be disqualified in advance, but especially the Government, and that this laboratory of political underground, which is constantly producing new and new accusations, anonymities, instigation and so on, is so sacramental. This is certainly not a modern European path for any candidate who is not of the right colour to be declared incompetent, incompetent or even criminal in advance. Also regarding the famous city of Ljubljana in which we are sitting today. The fact is that Jankovic would probably have already resigned as mayor of Ljubljana if he realized that the city was going back as well as the state. But the assessment of these people in this town is that they're growing up. And that's the main reason why it's not acceptable to your wishes. Nevertheless, I must say that something will be easier, because at least one of the city councillors will no longer be in the City Council, because today he will be appointed Minister. One more thing, the impeccable recruitment after the date that it came out and when we even appointed a new terminator. This actually looked like a green fever epidemic in this country. And to prevent this epidemic, the only possible way was to come up with a constructive mistrust and put forward a proposal for a new government. Besides, I'm here to answer to those of you who say why it happened. Otherwise, the runaway government would act until the elections, which represents business in the first place by adopting some systemic solutions – not least yesterday when we received the so-called Financial Police Act. This certainly goes beyond the mandate of the current government. With regard to the observation I heard at the hearing, I must say, above all, that the most ridiculous thing seemed to me to the President of the Government, that he did not have experience in foreign policy and that it was her area. Of course there are none of them, and we have now had the case of the lawyer leading the financial sector – he has run it or he is running it today. But the fear that Alenka Bratusek will not be given any attention in Brussels is over. On the contrary, we can go ahead and bet today that there will be a month or two of the stars of European politics. We all know how these gentlemen work, including the presidents of other countries, and they'll be happy to have a new, fresh face, if that's right or wrong. So there is no fear here, I think the more the problem is that some people envy this role. However, once again, it is primarily about getting a government, which I am sure does not need a hundred days of peace to start working immediately, and its results will soon show up. But I think it's fair that one year later she's going after a confidential person, and if she wrote that down, I don't see anything like it as a problem. The problem would be the opposite if it were not successful and that it would not be possible to go to the right time for a confidential person, just as the government has so far been when its public support fell below 15% and failed to be confident enough to come to this house for a confidential one. These are facts, but in a few months we will be able to find out something different, but I repeat that everyone has a chance or a chance to show what he can and knows. This is also true for the Government, which we will accept today, and this is also true for your government, which I said earlier that it has received significantly more support from hearings than is currently the case.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mrs. Sonja Ramshak, then Mrs. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u58	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, President of the Government, who is not in the Chamber, colleague and colleague! "Today is a broken day in front of Slovenia. It is a day of break with politics of division, contempt, insult and fear. It's a day of hope, of integration and of respect." Do those words sound familiar to you? Yeah, those are the words of the Prime Minister. My words are: today is a crucial day before Slovenia, the day of the beginning of politics of division, contempt, insult and fear, the day of the end of hope, the end of integration and the end of respect, is the day of denial of the values of Slovenia's independence. Yeah, the devil's hiding in the details. "I wish that women would not judge us by the length of our wings, but by the length of our solutions and by what many others have been striving for for decades to give everyday policy the wings of the future." How well do the words of the Prime Minister sound? Yes, I, too, would like to give such a policy an opportunity, but unfortunately some of the events that happened yesterday have convinced me that it is not you, President of the Government, and not your candidates, an expert and moral team capable of taking Slovenia out of the economic, political, social and, above all, moral crisis. Do you, President of the Government, hear the famous words: "We will break off the climate of fear that keeps Slovenia in a frenzy – so it is not only banks that do not lend, there are entrepreneurs who do not hope to invest in a spasm, even consumers who are buying only the most urgent." Yes, this is also part of your speech when you vote on the non-trust still in the current government. But respectable colleague, you, too, are by your actions, actions, with your political and other connections part of this problem, part of the cramp that has crippled the banking system, you are part of a spasm that has subsequently crippled the economy and you and your team are part of a moral spasm. Are you familiar with the words: "...that is why the new government will try to attract experts to its work and listen to them carefully?" Also: "If you allow me to propose a new government, I will do everything in my power to make the ministerial team expert and competent, there will be politicians and experts in it, but my efforts will go in the direction not of political calculation, but of professional debate and good decision-making." And also: "...that is why, as my commitment to coalition partners, I announce my efforts for a government where there would be more experts than politicians." I ask you, Madam President of the Government, who is not in the National Assembly or in this House, whether your team is truly composed of the principles of expertise or whether you have been proposed by individual candidates for ministers and ministers by uncles and aunts from the background. I believe that this is the case and that individual candidates from the positive Slovenia species are proposed from the background. Is your ministerial team dominated by experts and not politicians? Not in my personal opinion. Did you really have the opportunity to form your own government team, which has been representing us for the last two days in the National Assembly? Of course not. I was also convinced by yesterday's meeting of your Minister's Defence candidate with Mr. Školč and three other friends who, according to the eyewitness of this meeting, were another nationality that took place on the terrace of the Maximarket cafe and where your candidate, Jakič, asked the participants very loudly as follows: did I not knock them down yesterday? The hearing on the Defence Committee was, of course, considered. No, Mr Jakič, unfortunately he's not in the hall, you haven't knocked us down, you haven't put us on our knees, you've shown all your arrogance, incompetence, ignorance of the area of defence and protection and rescue, you've shown all your disrespect to this day by your colleagues and colleagues in Parliament. And now I ask you, Mr Jakič, what does your response to the words of one of the participants in this meeting mean: how does it mean to defend yourself? And your answer: that's what the old man decided. That's what the old man decided! And also, Mr. Jakič, should I be concerned about the words of one participant, that it is good that Janša was saved in such a way and that there is no need to use another way? In the part of the discussion of how one of your colleagues is leaving with his director to Cyprus on Friday, where everything is already agreed with the bank manager, I can only guess, because certain financial resources from Slovenia have to be transferred to Cyprus now to withdraw somewhere else, probably to another tax haven. And, Mr Jakič, I hope that your word is truly true and you will fulfill the promise you have made to your friends to organize after your election a celebration with Savoy, which should be organised according to ours, as you have expressed yourself. Mr Jakič, as on the Defence Committee, I now call on you to renounce the ministerial chair, because I fear that in the future you will also interpret defence and state secrets so loudly in the localities, in the public, and thereby endanger the national security of the Republic of Slovenia. Dear Madame President of the Government! I can only hope that some of your coalition partners will change their decisions after these facts and will not confirm the new government team. Let me add to this just my thought that today is not a happy day for Slovenia, for my country, and that from this day forward you will not be drenched, neither by milk, but perhaps by tears. I will vote against the government team, against the politics of fear, threats and mafia business, as Dr. Jože Pučnik once said: "It is Slovenia!".. Also because both you and your team are contaminated to the neck or as the President of the Anti-Corruption Commission said, because there is the highest possible level of corruption risk; plagiarisms, criminal charges, illegal construction and so on. The government of Janez Janša has demonstrated and proved that it can and can return Slovenia to the right path, on the path of development, prosperity for all citizens and citizens, and here thanks him and his team. My support cannot be given to those who have collapsed a capable, competent and professional government, which has guaranteed that Slovenia will emerge from the economic, financial and social crisis as a winner and not as a loser. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr. Jakich, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u60	Dear Vice President! I didn't mean to talk today. I didn't sign up. On a procedural basis, I would ask Mrs Ramshakov to apologize for the unrealistic statements she has just made. Even if it were true that before Maximarket yesterday, she would have said what she said — and it is not true — it is unusual for Mrs Ramshakov to have a record of any conversation of any Member or public official. It smells like something else to me, to some other time, when the spires followed me and listened to what I was saying as the leader of the student movement. So I would ask you to ask my colleague Ramshak if this is true, to tell who, where and how she got this information – and I assure you that it is not true. Yesterday before Maximarket on the terrace, I wasn't sitting with Scholcz, but I was at some other locations, and I wasn't talking about what she was talking about. I beg your pardon.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u61	Thank you very much, Mr. Jakich. I can't load anything to my colleague Ramshak. You'll clear this up with each other in one way or another. You have now explained your salary as part of the procedural proposal, and it has the word mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I believe that the word is still valid in this country, so I expect that we will get a new government in the evening, because the four parliamentary groups that signed the cooperation agreement will have enough votes for this government to start working. I thought there was nothing more to shake me down thoroughly in the National Assembly, but I must say that the last discussion shook me up because of the messages he was carrying. When we think about it – some with great enthusiasm – to go to the next electronic elections, I will now tell you that if it is in my power, I will protest. Because if electronic elections are to take place what is now happening when talking on the terrace or in private companies, then it is unlikely that the will of the electorate will be protected category. Now to what doesn't surprise me. The recent coalition has turned into a once-in-a-lifetime opposition from the days of the Pahor government in the mode of discussion. Nothing was good, everything was bad, what Pahor's government did. Without a single sober reasoning and a firm argument to judge why anything had been done, the political calculation that led to the early elections was behind us, and we know how the stories went on. It's the same now. Recently, in a discussion on the third parliamentary channel, Mr SDS Group leader said that we did not accept the partnership offered in cooperation. Yes, there should be cooperation if all the experiences are such that you are accepted as a partner only when you silence your position when you applaud the position of the largest SDS party. You can't have your point of view, you can't think otherwise, because that's all wrong. There's one more thing I'd like to say. In my 30-year teaching practice, I learned to look for knowledge in my students and students. It is a poor teacher who seeks ignorance. However, when I listen to these discussions, it is as if these people who have undergone presentations on parliamentary committees do not know anything. They have no idea what's ahead. They probably came from Venus and Mars, and they don't know what the situation is. That's really insulting to them. I wish I had a prime minister. Alenka Bratusek with her team to help her, because Alenka Bratusek herself will not be able to do anything. In one client, they think the world is standing and falling with one man, but that's not true. I would like this government to act as a homogeneous team that can listen to the needs, attitudes and visions of the ministers of the individual departments, which I believe are committed to each of their own departments, feel belonging to that department and will compete strongly for it. But if they don't listen to what needs to be done in other departments, the government won't succeed. People's expectations are high, and it is now perfectly understandable that I would have those two ministers or candidates who I could have listened to on the working body and who fulfilled my expectations as a good interlocutor in the finance minister. Why? According to Jernej Pikala, education, science and sport are the ones who will start this society and take it in a developmental way for the future. If the Minister of Finance doesn't listen to this, Minister Pikalo won't be able to do his job. If culture is not understood as a national resource, it will not be possible for Minister Griltz to work well. I could list all those departments in a row now, but, as it were, I only stayed with those I listened to — they enjoy my full support. I know that business needs to be taken over, that the situation needs to be reviewed. I'm not going to say good luck and happy travel to the government, I'd say good luck to Slovenia! I hope this crew guides you well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr. Gaspar Gaspar Music, then Ivan Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u64	President, thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Unlike some Members and Members, I would rather look to the future than deal with the past, even though it is good to say a lot about it. The year 2013 is the year of two governments, at least in Slovenia. The year 2013 is the turning point of the two financial perspectives and 2013 is the year that will mark the entire decade. We have recently received a financial framework for the new financial perspective and it is now up to us to properly share this in order to set priority projects and to take the country towards prosperity more uprightly and more successfully for the next 2014-2020 period, as we like to say here in the temple of democracy. We need to accelerate activities to successfully complete all projects funded and co-financed by cohesion and other European funds in the current financial perspective and to prioritize new development projects that will be co-financed in the new financial perspective, as I said. Taking into account the key comparative advantages that we have not been aware of in this country in the past and in relation to these comparative advantages to the comparable partner countries of Europe and the wider space, we need to take advantage of all the natural gifts and wealth that this country overpowers and focus on development, development and development again. Our indevelopmental attitude has been a bad message and a bad journey, and by all indicators, both domestic and foreign institutions, we have received a lot of play or a lack of evaluation. Only those who are aware of their values, traditional values, can be successful and effective. I think it's time for Slovenia to move from the defense to the offensive, because we have the right ground for that. It is time to start using the knowledge, experience and expensive school of past practices to strengthen and develop social, legal, fair and knowledge-based and economically stable Slovenia. In order to start a new start, actions should speak instead of words to ensure prosperity for all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. In addition, I think that some publicly published data, data from representatives of European institutions, should be very well aware of future behaviour, that economic growth in Europe, in particular according to OECD data, in the last few decades, in 1960 5.3%, in 1970 3.8%, in 1980 3.1%, in 1990 2.3% and the first decade of this century 1.4%. Without a more detailed analysis and a search for reasons for a declining growth trend, it could be highly likely to assume that the rates of economic growth in the coming years in Europe will be low. Different from country to country, but on average very low. This is our common European reality. The quality of life in the future we will not be able, nor dare we, to provide, with the help of additional overexpenditures of creation or otherwise, at the expense of future generations. The mistakes we are paying dearly today must not be repeated. The balance of public finances and the responsible policy in ensuring macroeconomic stability in general will therefore be an inevitable part of our reality in the future, as our past has shown. Not only in Slovenia, we also walk on the brink of social sustainability in many European countries, and this is also our reality. It will therefore be necessary to pay attention to reducing differences in society and to all processes leading to the decomposition of society. Ignoring the processes and reasons that led people to the streets and to the brink of despair would be a mistake with short-term uncontrollable and long-term unforeseeable consequences. Without the trust of the people, without the light at the end of the tunnel, the changes that are necessary are not possible. In the past, the developmental pattern has generally ignored the boundaries of our planet. Environmental policy has been seen as a factor in reducing the competitiveness of the economy and hampering the economic development of the country. This has led to the fact that the real integration of environmental policy into other policies such as agriculture, fisheries, industrial, transport, energy and development has never really happened. Every activity has tended to pursue its interests, and when the water was dirty enough and the air was harmful to our health, we have taken measures, standards, legally defined boundaries that have limited their operation. Too late, of course. Wrong investment decisions have already been made, often in good faith, and the initial situation has been in conflict with adopted laws, standards and even measures. Therefore, integration of policies is a prerequisite for avoiding any problems, false investment decisions and entrapment in structures and processes that are sustainablely unacceptable. Prevention is better than curative – it is often heard in our reality. Above all, it has less harmful consequences and does not lead to apparent and unnecessary conflicts between the interests of the environment and the economy. To sum up, we need to find the answer to the question of how to maintain, to the greatest extent possible, the level of quality of life achieved, taking into account that it is very likely that a period of low economic growth is ahead of us and a period when we will have to pursue responsible and balanced macroeconomic and social policies and respect the boundaries of our planet in a consistent manner. We need to stand firm on the ground, and we need to know that our conduct depends on our destiny. Let me conclude with a single sentence that I am very happy because the economic sector takes over a man with rich experiences in real life, in the economy, Mr Stanko Stepišnik, who has crossed a thorny path on his way to the Member and on his way to the Minister. In the past, many times – at least personally, I have missed people in positions that understand the real needs of the Slovenian economy. Everyone was just talking about economic growth, about economic growth, about need, about development, but instead of going in a development direction, we were going in a direction of underdevelopment. That is why I express my enthusiasm for this decision, over this choice of new Commissioner Alenka Bratušek and congratulate and wish her a new team, the ministerial team, to lead this country, to give her support, to give them a chance to show that they know, can and want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Grill, then Mr. Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! Unfortunately, the President of the Government is not among us, because it would be appropriate for us to hear our concerns and, last but not least, the well-intentioned advice that we will probably be able to provide in this debate in its favour. Otherwise, it would have started with the fact that even before the president of the government revealed the team to the public, there was no hunger in schools in Slovenia, no more problems with pensioners to break through the month, no more problems in the health sector, the unions were calm and still could be listed. At least after the press releases, we can conclude that. It was only enough that you overthrow the government of John Janša and all these things were swept under the rug, but of course the reality is different. Trouble's just coming. The first step you took was that, in my firm belief, you have very well planned and unfairly demolished the government of Janez Janša with a good team, which has been through the results that have already begun to show up in terms of economic recovery, in terms of positive trends in international financial markets – even those key reforms were all, or mostly, already behind us, but then the moment came when the issue must be brought to an end immediately. But the well-respected new coalition and the president of the government with the team, the big problems are just ahead of you, and I will not support these governments, not because you don't want to work well to drive Slovenia out of a difficult situation. But with the kind of team he has around him, I'm sure they're too big a pair of shoes for each of them, or they're rare enough to handle such tasks. Without underestimating anyone, but without specific knowledge, without international experience and experience in the policy field – I am sure that in such a short time and in such difficult circumstances there is nothing that can be done. The president of the government said that we were critical of not having her on, I don't know how many pages of the written program. That's not true. She's already had too many flosses written. For one year of concrete actions that Slovenia needs, it would be enough on one side or maximum on two. It wasn't written anywhere: this, this, we're going to do it this way, that way, that way and at that time. That wasn't there. The Flosculs themselves at the presentations of the candidates as in her rhetoric: we should, we will, we will try. There's no time to experiment! A respected future ministerial team, the government is not a test site for your ideas, and even less for your internships. Many of those who will join the government will do some kind of internship. There is no time for this, and I fear it will be sooner than in a year — as far as you plan to look for a confidant — a situation that is even more difficult than it is now. With such a team, I am sure that Slovenia will not get out of trouble, so I expect this, and I am generously advising both the President of the Government and future ministers, that as soon as someone feels that it is not part of the task, he will step down and find a competent expert for that area. I believe that in times of time you have failed to persuade competent people to join the government, but now there will be time, not too much, but a little more, so let these teams be perfected with people who know who can, but especially those who want. Once again, I want the Government to be successful and we will definitely help with good projects, but I fear that it will not succeed with such a team. And in the end, only this, as of today, when spring comes to our country, is unfortunately not going to catch up with Slovenia. We're going from winter to ice age. Time will tell me I'm right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr. Breznik, then Roman Squirrel.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u68	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Nice greeting on my part, too! I'll continue on my own somehow: together from the Ice Age back to spring. In fact, I am surprised today, because it was part of the speech that the mandate-holder had, in fact, a kind of continuation of the government's policy. So all those who are in the opposition, including those who are in the new opposition, I would like to point out that we must support all these solutions, because this is essentially the government's policy. This is something other than what we've heard in the last year on the other side. In any attempt to sell or attempt to destroy some monopolies in Slovenia, we have heard that this is neoliberal capitalism. This has started every sentence of the current President of the National Assembly – gentlemen, this is a neoliberal policy, this is neoliberal capitalism. I am interested – for the first time, by studying the economy, I looked again at my notes, what is neoliberal politics and capitalism, and I looked again at the notions of last year's economy, the market economy and so-called neoliberal methods. Slovenia has concluded in its transition process an intermediate path called delegated state capitalism with all the monopolies that somehow remained alive during the transition from the former totalitarian regime. We stayed on the partial monopoly of one medium, we ended up with the monopolies of Slovenian knowledge, where certain content of public education remained on some real carriers of one monopoly and we stayed in economic monopolies mainly in companies where the country has a majority ownership stake. Slovenia is a single group of people and a society of monopolies and the persistence of a part of the policy that still maintains these monopolies. We're not even in one normal market economy yet, so here we are. We have heard: raising the revenue side, launching large infrastructure projects. We've heard here today the notion of a dead cash flow, you have to sell all these things that are stuck, apartments. See, that's all the consequences. Slovenia, with all the downsides it has in state banks, is the result of a major start-up of infrastructure projects. The typical last major infrastructure project is TES 6 by Mr Meh, who says that it is necessary to help his valley. I believe that somehow he's buying parliamentary votes. How many state-owned companies are working on the TES 6 project? How many Slovenian workers have earned and live on the Billion Project from the TES 6 project? The outgoing government has globally looked at typical Slovenian problems, consolidated public finances, or the former or former Prime Minister of the Government has sat here on the bench, where now respected colleague Jerovšek sits. For a month he watched you consolidate as the great winners of the previous elections. He said three times: I don't know, I won't go, it'll certainly fall, it'll certainly be a bigger deficit than we've been publicly shown. Somehow they were spending it sitting there, where Dr. Jelusicev is now respected, the current president of the country, who somehow remained alone as some lonely creator around the party SD. When he was aware of these real problems of lost economic policy in the last twenty years, the current Prime Minister of the Government somehow agreed to consolidate and establish a new government. Not what he wanted, but as president of the biggest opposition party, as president of the largest party in Slovenia, as a great patriot, he said he would consolidate the government, although in two months we will be guilty of everything. Two months later, this government was guilty of being hungry, of having problems at all ends and places, of having small pensions and so on. All of a sudden, there were demonstrations outside, the media said that the government had 20, 25% or even less of 20% support – public research showed 20,25% popularity. I wonder which governments around the world are taking some remedial action by a country that is ahead of economic and financial collapse. Do you know any country where someone who leads the recovery of some kind of breakdown of all people, the total collapse of the welfare of those most endangered social groups, has a lot of support? No, it's not. Slovenia looked something like this in these matters; when we accepted the ZUJF, we were all for saving – just not with our group, try next door, next door and not with us. Take nothing from us, make no changes. And here you were barking, stressing your alternative, which was on the passwords of the former communist system. We don't give up ours. We don't want a stranger. We don't want to sell anything. We don't want to sell anything else. I hope that the policy will go in that you don't want the foreign to want foreign credits, that you will somehow exhaust the funds – those you have saved, which are left behind as part of these big infrastructure projects, that you will bring back and that you don't want another. I hope that the password will continue to be work, honor and power. That those from our places that are not in Ljubljana, which has a 300 million budget and say that someone is a successful mayor with 300 million. Gentlemen, even my late grandmother would easily run this town with the 300 million I distribute, no problem. By not creating anything in Ljubljana! One big monopoly, one big pool of all Slovenia, all the resources of those small people who work for 500, 600 euros, which are paid to work in the morning to survive their families. Every smallest tax expires in the capital because you have the highest population density. Monopoly of state-owned enterprises that are established here, of all ministries that are established here – the very multiplication of this money that is leaking here. In the end, it's 300 million, 313 million, to be honest, and then we're successful. Slovenia is much more than successful. And the crisis, which is, is the crisis of the great Slovenian problems created by these monopolies. We have a monopoly in education, which is a key monopoly where everyone would study, no one would work. The Austrian neighbours have somehow learned from the latest survey that 80% of people do not need academic education, but we need key quality profiles of high-level experts. And we have, with the major infrastructure projects that we have been running for the last 15 years, even 20 years, hired mainly these key mid- and low-level staff from foreign republics, from foreign countries, and here is this problem that we have brought forward. There's a problem! Of course, I want to be positive that this government drives and shows what it can do. To show that other alternative you were talking about. People, citizens, citizens and citizens will know this. Six months later, they will look at what the government of Janez Janša did in one year and in one year they will look at what she did with the great experts, some even have the names Maher – so I'm not even afraid here of how she did these problems with the Mahers. Where are we? Whether this budget minus will be around here somewhere like now, 3.2%, whether it will be better, or worse, or whether it will be less unemployed, or whether there will be greater prosperity, or whether there will be less hunger in Slovenia, or whether we will be more competitive in the international space – these questions will be revealed here. Therefore, as a Member, as your fellow Member, I would not wish a poor journey at all. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Of course, I can't be a colleague if I'm 30 years younger and have more experience, that's clear. I can't be a colleague, that's clear [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u69	Just a moment before Mr. Breznik finishes [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u70	We will be able to look at the balance of these two policies. [[...]] First Policy [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u71	Mr. Beznik has the floor. Mrs. Vontah, Mr. Breznik has the floor. Here you go, Mr. Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u72	Look, one more time. The policy that this government has concluded and the policy that this government will conclude – citizens and citizens will be able to look at each other's policies and see what one or the other policy can do. That's all. I wish you well on your new journey. Always, I can say, I'll keep abreast of the work of this government. And I'll support her in those best projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u73	Mr. Han, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I know you would have reacted, too, but I'm sorry I got ahead of you. I listened with interest to Mr. Franz Breznik, who gave some analysis. However, I would expect him to do so because I know that it is, sir, to apologize to the opposition members and members of the opposition on just one thing. We talk, we debate and we don't bark. And what you have said in your economic inspiration seems wrong and I ask you to apologize to all Members and Members for the expression that does not belong in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u75	Thank you very much for your proposal. Just like before, you'll get things sorted out. I don't give my colleague Breznik a word. I'm not taking the floor. Please, if you'll sit down. You don't have a word! You want a procedural proposal? Here you go. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u76	Dear colleague Han, because I am not a comrade because I am a gentleman, I always apologize. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u77	Good. Mr Žuglič has the following word, followed by Mr Jožef Kavtičnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u78	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! The reasons why the Slovenian People's Party does not join the new coalition have been explained more by my colleagues in the parliamentary group. Although we supported the non-trust, we felt that because we respected the institutions of the rule of law and if we demanded something in the coalition in which we were to be respected and then to go to another coalition, which would not adhere to this principle, it would be unfair of us. It would be unfair for the President of the Government, it would be unfair for coalition partners and, above all, it would be unfair for us. The second thing I'm going to say before was a few speeches about these so-called hearings, it's called hearings of candidates. Members and Members of the Slovenian People's Party have strictly adhered to this principle, that only new elections should be taken into account for us, that the cards should be remixed, and that this should then be done. And if there were hearings after the elections, a lot of candidates would get a vote from the Slovenian People's Party. That's what this is about. The rest is that the coalition has enough votes and numbers and the result of the hearings has no effect whatsoever on the very course of the government's election. But I'd like to say something about hearings. I'm a lot of candidates – I'll say this: they didn't say things anymore, as they said, except for rare exceptions, and that disappointed me. Most disappointed was the current Minister of Health and the future Minister of Health as a candidate for the Minister, who spoke about the contribution rates and said about it, I will read from the magnetogram: "Because it is necessary to know that every farmer is not poor and no farmer has to pay, I don't know, 14 euros." I want to say something that if he wasn't a minister, I would forgive him if he didn't know how many farmers who are voluntarily or legally involved in health and pension insurance are paying health insurance contributions. This is not €14, but it is €56. A candidate who wouldn't be a minister could understand, but I can't understand that. Earlier, a colleague was talking about ideological conflicts and I wonder if this is already possible a new ideological war on the Slovenian countryside and the Slovenian farmer. My phones burned down that night, and I have to say that - I'm sorry there's no candidate in the hall, I'm sorry there's no candidate in the hall. I hope you'll pass it on to your client colleagues. That's it. Before that, the opposition was said to be cruel. I don't know what it is and so on. Perhaps I would say that the Slovenian People's Party has always been able to support a good proposal. This will be known mainly by colleagues from the SD Group of Members, and I must tell them once again that if in the previous government of Borut Pahor, there would be no Slovenian People's Party, the pension reform would not have come through parliament. Therefore, sometimes when I listen to the debates of your parliamentary group, it seems a little unfair to the Slovenian People's Party. Earlier, one of the colleagues said that the new President of the Government would be a star on the European political floor – I would not mind, but I would like the state of Slovenia to be a star in the European Union, no matter what position the President of the Government in the European Union will have. From the point of view, as we have already said, I will not vote for the new government, because I think, like the others, that it would be a better second way and even more proper. Now, only that today, on the first spring day, it is possible for certain colleagues who are criticising the achievements of this government and individual ministers and individual departments to say that the world will not start turning to new ones on the first day of spring – just as the election of this government will prevent the world from turning to new ones and that in a few years, they will be able to evaluate their own work. And now in the end – there is no more my fellow Member, Matjaž Han. P.S., I will say: At my last speech in the National Assembly, I will release domestic animals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u79	Thank you very much, Mr. Squirrel. It's Mr. Kavticnik's turn, then Mag. Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u80	Thank you so much for saying that. This would begin: The Slovenian People's Party has always been able to support good proposals, except today. On the first spring day, when we will receive the first spring government run by the first mandate-holder in Slovenia. Thank you and congratulations to the Prime Minister, Ms Alenka Bratušek, who has made an effort to reach out for the names and names of the competent people she has proposed for future ministers and ministers. I congratulate the candidates for ministers and ministers for their presentations, especially on the courage and willingness to take over the government’s steering wheel or wagon, which has been running for a while on the beach. This wagon will have to be changed and they will have to sit on the steering wheel at the same time and direct it and be at the beginning to push it up and make this initial motion. It will be hard, but I believe in them, I believe in people, because in practice they have proven many times that they can and they want to. The Prime Minister, Mrs Alenka Bratušek, has already stated that there are too many people sitting and somehow silently monitoring the deteriorating economic situation in the country and sometimes criticising when she invited them to participate, but they have managed to avoid it. Today, too, she said that despite not wanting to cooperate, she would invite them to participate in certain expert groups and give them the opportunity to cooperate with their expertise and experience in solving the economy and everything else that the country needs. It won't be easy for us and it won't be easy for them, but I believe them because they are hopeful and optimistic. And if anything, this country today needs optimism and motivation to work, not pessimism and intimidation. Today we have also heard this and here is the difference between us and you, mostly between SDS, who are looking at things more and more like a problem, from a negative light and wondering how something could not be done, and between us, who are looking at things from a positive side and looking at how some things can be done and met. The government will be as strong as the strong weakest member. This has already been said today, which is why cooperation is needed, and not least at the presentations, the candidates said they were ready to cooperate with everyone in Parliament, with expertise, social partners and civil society. The presentations showed that they wanted to participate in the team and would pursue common goals and efforts to realize the vision that the Government would set itself. Tolerance, cooperation, work, perseverance, expertise will be a common denominator for all, so I will also support the proposed candidates and candidates for ministers. The candidate for Minister of Culture proved at the presentation that he knows the area and we can trust him. He stressed that culture is more than visible and heard and is an integral part of the life of each individual. Culture should not be the last to feel it. That culture must be restored to a place of development activity and that we must strive for excellence, diversity and accessibility in culture as well as elsewhere. I am sure, even from the speeches made by the candidates for ministers, that this is what others think, and that they are united here, and that is why we will be able to see in one year that this government had a common goal and then it will go away. The candidate for education convinced me by simply and clearly presenting how he would promote quality public education, where all participants would have equal opportunities. And that it will restore confidence in sport and allow more cooperation in the civil sphere. This is what we have been alerting ourselves to, this is what our sport, our athletes, our citizens and citizens, finally deserve. However, the candidate for the leadership of the Defence Minister confirmed what will adorn this government – cooperation, corrective dialogue between all participants and an analytical and professional approach to change. I particularly appreciate Mr Roman Jakič's decision to adopt the Defence Minister's Department, as he has proved in practice to date that a person who is listening to people, especially those who need help, is crucial for the defence field. I only remind you that Roman Jakič has led the Olympic extermination of our disabled athletes and that in this group of disabled people has been working for many years. And if anyone, then the disabled need people to help them, to cooperate with them, and to influence their hope, and to let them know that they are equal. It is the Secretary of Defense who will be able to return and give people hope and trust. Ms Tina Komel, with her political and ideological innocence, is a real improvement in this political space, especially since she has personal experience as a member of the minority, so this will bring experience, honesty, work, perseverance, creativity, innovation to the government team. With what was seen and heard at the presentations, the candidates convinced me, so I thank and congratulate Mrs Alenka Bratušek on her choice. I will support the government and wish it a success, but I will participate in this as much as the National Assembly and the legislation allow me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mag. Vogrin, then Dr. Baby Jelusich.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u82	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President! Dear colleagues and colleagues! Congratulations to the President of the Government, the newly elected ministers and ministers, in a few hours or perhaps even less, for this important function. They will no doubt be elected. But the fact is, it's just the first step. We'll evaluate them not by word of mouth, but by action. Confucius said a few thousand years earlier: "In a cultured world, there is an order of action, and in an uncultivated world there is talk." We can conclude that Slovenia is a rather uncultivated environment. Why? I'll try to explain. Before this explanation, I'd say the following. The newly elected pope is the President of the Government of 1 billion and 200 million citizens of the Vatican. When he was elected, he took the bus with the other citizens. I expect that if we move from words to actions that the newly elected ministerial team today, as it did with its cars, will be taken away. We're too small a country to go to luxury. The second thing I expect is, of course, that if we had already set ourselves the goal of being a small Switzerland in 1991, after 21 years we have failed, but maybe now we will be with this government team. That's why I suggest we get a little smitten by the Swiss spirit. Switzerland has 7 million inhabitants, 7 ministries. Slovenia has 2 million inhabitants and 13 ministries. Catastrophe! Switzerland has one ministry per million inhabitants, and we have one ministry per about 150,000 inhabitants. So let's start from words to actions. Someone questioned the ability of the ministerial team. There is no need to doubt, for every ministerial team so far — 10 of them — was like this best, the most capable, the most excellent. And these great teams led us to bankruptcy. What would you think of me if you started to wise up today, how the company was running, and my company went bankrupt? That I'm crazy! What do you think our citizens think? That we're crazy here in Parliament. Justifiably. So let's move from psychosis of madness to psychosis of creativity and start working and creating. Today we read catastrophic news. Mura: the workers were not paid. You know why they didn't get paid? Because they paid our wages first and the tax blocked them because we paid our wages first. Catastrophe! Catastrophe! I have asked several times: When will this National Assembly begin to discuss what we will do and what we will live on? We didn't make it in 21 years. Madam President of the Government has an excellent opportunity and I wish her all the best. I apologize if I can't be left or right. If I can't prostitute myself, not physically, not intellectually, not politically. That's how my parents raised me, and that's how I'm gonna stay. But I know what we're doing isn't right. Let's start doing what we're going to do, so we have something to live from, because people think we're crazy and I don't think we're going to get far from it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Dr. Ljubica Jelusic, then Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u84	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, esteemed Prime Minister of the Government! Let me begin by saying that I wish you, Madam President, and all your team a great deal of success, patience, understanding and, of course, courage and strength to face a situation in which you are prepared to manage a country that is not in the best condition. However, it would be wise for us to take part in this endeavor or in your courage in doing our utmost, either with constructive criticism or with our knowledge and counsel. By constantly searching for negative salaries and by constantly trying to find the historical mistakes of individual people, we will not contribute much to future development. I would like to draw attention to some peculiarity in our protocol, that we are talking about a future government here, that we are comparing each other with better or worse words and that we are talking about third people. I think it would be good for all of our candidates for ministers and ministers to be here with us today in the hall and not just a few of us to discuss them. I would also like to continue at some point, which was started in part by my colleague Vogrin and partly by my colleague Kavtičnik. In fact, somehow you said that what was going to happen today would be the first step, and you let yourself know that from the first step forward, we expect the team we're setting up to start working, act as a team, as a team. Indeed, it has been so far that we listened to the President of the Government 15 days ago as an individual, as an individual, that we listened to her and her view of the future government today and listened to the ministers as individuals at the hearings. From now on, it will be our government and we will expect them to act as a team and to produce results together, and we will mostly forget to look at those individuals who contribute more or less and will contribute to the success of the government. It seems essential to me that, when they come to their ministries, they will, however, continue to function as individuals who, on behalf of their ministries, will have to follow the priorities set by the Prime Minister of the Government, while at the same time they will have to carry on countless ongoing or day-to-day affairs that await them in the ministries and which need to be regulated. At the same time, they will also have to take care of cross-cutting cooperation, and I would like to talk about this issue now. For when we look at them as individuals on the one hand and as individuals on the other, we forget that within the government, however, some topics are dealt with more within specific ministries than at the level of the whole government, and some even lie out of our perspective. For example, the Minister of Defence spoke in his speech about wanting to transform civil defence in accordance with European standards into a modern crisis management. It would also add to this claim that it would be right to establish a modern system for the protection of critical infrastructure. But the problem is that the Minister of Defence himself will not be able to do so unless he has adequate support and cooperation with the Minister responsible for internal affairs. It is said that the question will already be asked here whether the two ministers will be able to take part in this issue in the future and whether their bureaucracy in the ministries will be ready to cooperate. Indeed, it is often seen in practice that there are many major obstacles in these official apparatus, which prevent better inter-sectoral cooperation, even in cases where ministers, as individuals, are able to cooperate very well. Another such case was the issue of international operations and missions. When we questioned the Minister of Defence, we placed too much expectations on him, and he too took too much weight on his shoulders when it came to how the state of Slovenia should behave when it comes to international operations and missions. We have placed too little of these burdens on the shoulders of the Minister for Foreign Affairs – at least. I don't know if you asked him what police officers do on international operations and missions when you questioned the Minister of the Interior. Also here, in the National Assembly and in any of the parental bodies, we hardly ever talk about the fact that we also have foreign police officers. What is essential in international operations and missions is the fact that the State of Slovenia participates in this context of foreign policy in various ways, with soldiers, with police, with civilian experts, with rescue operations under the protection, rescue and assistance system and with various contributions to various international development forms of cooperation and foundations. All of this needs to be coordinated at the level of the Minister of Interior, Foreign Affairs and Defence, with the support of the Government on the one hand and the support of Parliament on the other. The third point to be pointed out in these days' interviews is the issue of economic diplomacy. The Minister of Foreign Affairs set this as an important priority for his action, which he did a year ago. But the fact is, diplomacy cannot promote an economy that is almost absent. It is said that, first of all, it is important that ministries in charge of the economy and ministers in charge of the economy ensure the development of those sectors of the economy, which can then be promoted or diplomatically represented in the international environment. The last question is related to the issues of intelligence and security activities in this country. We have three services in charge of this; the Slovenian Security Intelligence Agency, which is directly subordinated to the President of the Government, the Intelligence and Security Service, which is subordinated to the Minister of Defence, and we have a police officer who is subordinated to or in the composition of the Ministry of the Interior. These three services need to be prepared to cooperate with each other when it comes to the issue of the various forms of threat to our country. However, the fact is that all these three services are systematically placed in different ways and are not easily connected when the issue of institutional integration arises. One job is directly responsible to the President of the Government, and this is usually not allowed to go to a lower level of service, which is composed of individual ministries. One of the jobs is a job, not an organ in the system, and one is a big system, the biggest security system in the country, and that's the police. Reaching that the three systems work together to support the entire government, Parliament, the President of the country and all of our countries, and of course it is very complicated. I therefore hope that the President of the Government will have the power to bring all these individual interests together at some point to cooperate and not compete with each other. I want all of you to be successful in this work and that in a year's time your work, honourable President, and all of your colleagues and colleagues can be rewarded here in order to give you the opportunity to continue your work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek, then Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Dear Prime Minister of the Government, first of all Madam President, colleague and colleague! Madam President, in your next speech, you said that you were forming a government with a commitment to European Slovenia – it is about it. With this you paraphrased and peered with the words of Dr. Pučnik: "It is Slovenia." If we truly respected the founder of the Slovenian state, Dr. Pučnik, in your option, then we would not propose human resources solutions that are a provocation to the symbols and attributes of Slovenia. See, then it would not have happened that at a time when prominent economists, sociologists and thinkers of Slovenia say that crime and robbery must be investigated in Slovenian banks, the financial oligarchy and supervisors who have not done their work so far will have to appoint themselves a supervisor under whom the orgy in Slovenian banks and public finances can continue smoothly. As was said - you appointed a bank lawyer. It seems that the whole option is not aware of the responsibility of the fight against corruption, but I do not condemn the candidate as having anything to do with corruption, and the fact is that he is an anointed person of the Ljubljana Bank and the National Bank. Because he went to his first commitment to a doctoral degree with a scholarship to Paris and from there returned to the principal's office, he tells me everything. That's how it came out of the resume you sent us. This is about the anointed. Thus, the anointed one has his hands tied in this outstanding work that awaits us. We can tell the Slovenians that those who stole the money from the citizens will not be put in front of the people, but will be protected. Then 14 days ago, in your first speech, you spoke about giving priority to the profession. If that were true, I would be my forerunner, my colleague Yelušičeva, today's candidate for Minister of Defence. She is an expert and she excelled in this department, but the profession obviously means nothing to you and this appointment – all I have to say is that she's obviously a provocation or maybe she's an expert. If it is true what is said in the corridors that there are still secret annexes to the agreement of the parties, among which the programming direction should also be to abolish the Slovenian Army, then Mr Jakič is an expert on this task, as he comes out of Zares, there is still a permanent representative of Zares at the European Liberal International and the MEPs in the previous term have taken up and signed a petition to abolish the army and step out of NATO. The big question is, where are you taking this country? I must also say that in your signed agreement of 12 priorities there is no word on education, universities, culture. And you, Madam President, spoke last time about the humiliated culturers, but at the hearing of the candidate for the ministry, there really was an incredible humiliation of culture and culture in Slovenia. I quote what your candidate for Minister of Culture has said. He stated: "The likeness of culture in Slovenia has been at a very low level in recent times." You must admit that this is an incredible insult after a year when we had the European Capital of Culture, which has given us many additional things and achievements in the cultural field. Slovenia is cultured and cultural and talking about a low level is an insult to culturers – only these helped to get you into power and now they are quiet. Thank you very much – I don't have time because I have to give others another chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Prime Minister Mrs Bratusek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u88	Thank you very much. I will say that, unfortunately, after one year of sitting in the National Assembly, I did not expect any different debates than is now happening. Unfortunately. When I came to the National Assembly, I imagined it all very differently that we would really talk about content and not bet on words behind. Let's look to the future! That's all I want. Banks and banking problems are our biggest problem right now. One year we listened to you say that they needed to be saved — a year. And now that we've found someone who's been monitoring these problems from a distance, he hasn't been involved in lending, but of course, it's wrong. If all Slovenian bankers are as you say they are, then Slovenia is in very serious trouble. I have a completely different opinion myself. It is, however, the fact that your government has sent the NLB supervisor from the worst times when the worst or most risky loans were given, to manage state assets to the Court. And you didn't see any trouble in that! But as we say, I would like us to look forward and leave the past behind because it will not help us to create a future, Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mrs. Dimic, then Mr. Simchich.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u90	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. All in attendance, Your Honor. Dear Prime Minister of the Government! I have accompanied today's presentation of the list of candidates, the debate of fellow Members and Members and the presentation of some ministerial candidates on the home committees. I have also read the agreement on the participation of the parties to the new coalition and I must point out that in all these cases I have missed specific objectives. The goals the government would have set for itself. Thus, the coalition contract and the hearings contain only some general guidelines on issues that fall within the individual area. However, from the hearing, I only understood the following: to a large extent, the new government intends to continue the projects of the past government. Although I consider these substantive guidelines to be good. However, I am particularly looking forward to the right area of justice. Ensuring the rule of law is also, according to the economy, the first priority in our country. The reform of the judiciary has been prepared during the time of the government. The current minister candidate has already presented it to the parties of the coalition at the time of the ministry in the previous government and is substantively good. Following assurances by the Minister's candidate at the presentation on the parental committee, he will also advocate such a reform as the minister of the new coalition. However, I believe that work in this area will have to be stepped up significantly. In particular, I hope that the new coalition will also support the proposal for a law on scholarship, which the government has already tabled in the parliamentary procedure, which constitutes a substantive correction of the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds. Corrections to this law are necessary in order to ensure that all students, including those coming from wealthier families, can be educated. There are not rare cases, especially in the countryside, where families were unable to provide the child with the education he had chosen because of financial distress. The absence of concrete objectives and deadlines to achieve these objectives means that unfortunately the achievements of the coalition will not be verifiable at all. I have serious concerns about how the new coalition will work and decide on the basis of heterogeneousness and even the fundamental programming contradictions of the coalition parties. Perhaps this is the reason why the new coalition could not or wanted to set concrete goals. These arguments, the political recalculation of the parties to the new coalition, and in particular the personal recalculation of some members of the government team, are the reason that the new government cannot give its voice support.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr. Simchich, then Mr. Zanoskar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u92	Thank you so much for saying that. Madam Vice President, President of the Government! As we already know, the composition of the government has been driven by enormous controversy and speculation over the past few weeks. The newspaper columns were regularly filled in first with the names of the sent groups, as a condition for the implementation of the coalition contract, and then in the last few moments with the names of individuals. He himself would have touched two, three pillars, which would have given him a few initiatives. The most unambitious words were about Dr. Uros Choufer, the finance minister, who had a heavy burden or responsibility for the culprits for the unfinished situation in the area. However, the issue and doubts of all eminent Slovenian lawyers in the field of finance, banking, the economy that are loud for analysis of the financial situation in front of the media, and when it is necessary to show their knowledge in practice, they are nowhere to be found. Infrastructure. On the Foreign Policy Committee today, the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union by 1. Seven. 2013 Why am I exposing this to infrastructure? I ask myself, and all governments so far, what we have done in the last 22 years, at the time of Croatia's entry into the European Union, that we, for example, have prepared infrastructure for my place in the area of infrastructure itself - road, railway. If only I could warn you. And history will show – Austro-Hungarian has made us railways, Italy road and infrastructure, Yugoslavia has been restoring this. When someone draws a line below the 22 years of the Slovenian state, I don't know what he'll be able to write. I would like to say something else: have we prepared for Croatia's entry into the European Union in the area of infrastructure as a result of agriculture? I would like to point out that we are 30 minutes' drive from Kvarner Bay, and there are 300,000 inhabitants, one of which is all of Ljubljana. Did we do something about it? I don't think so. I would therefore suggest to the Ministry of Agriculture that, now that we are at the turn of European funds 2014-2020, it actually plays with its proposal for wood biomass. Snow forests are the backs of Kvarner. The same is true of his very famous river to provide our own food. But not only do we provide ourselves, we can offer it to our neighbors. And not only do we run to banks for loans, but we also make some progress in our work in various areas. In the area of culture, start work on a new statutory law on culture. In particular, I would like to define here: to submit draft amendments to the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage. What happens to building heritage is a big story. I would just like to say in practice, because I come from the practice that all railway infrastructure is in such a state today that there are no more renovations, reconstruction works on certain infrastructures, but all procedures are just how we will move a particular facility away or cover it with modern materials. The last such case is the water tower in Divaca. Some even slept badly, and they said they were going to tear it down and put it back on. One of them would move it. Why don't we move the tracks, not the legacy that's 150 years old. I hope the Minister of Culture works on this. Finally, thanking the previous Government that we have given through pension reform and the labour market. Also in all euphoria, when politicians are fighting, an agreement with Croatia has been ratified, a memorandum. Finally, sincere congratulations to the new government and elected ministers, as well as a great deal of business happiness and success in carrying out their work. Good luck!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr. Zanoskar, then Mr. Peek.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u94	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues! So at the presentation of the Prime Minister of the Magnificent Government. Alenka Bratušek and listening to all the hearings, the three ministers' and three ministers' arguments are surrounded by a truly optimistic, very positive feeling that Slovenia is at a turning point from which we can get a lot in the future and that is why we are looking forward to it. The government, represented or represented by candidates together with the mandate-holder, is the best we can do right now, and today we could talk about the members and members of the government with a medal. I hope and wish that after one year, when this government goes to Parliament for a trust, we can talk about them in positive surpluses. That would be right, and I'm sure, at least as much as I know them, and I know they'll try and do everything they can to make it happen. Today we should talk about the government programme, which is presented, which is good, which is optimistic, which concerns all the most vital parts of our troubled Slovenia. Today, however, we talk a lot about other things that have a political foretaste, which are somehow anger or disappointment to those who had to leave the government in a way that they did. After all, one year ago, Janša’s government took power or leadership of this country in a way that was not very ordinary, in a way that was not very common. This was more of a forced takeover of power, but at the time the Positive Slovenia, as the largest opposition party, had no comments. You can see that at the hearings and even later, when the government proposed some reforms, we contributed yes. Therefore, the Positive Slovenia was a constructive opposition and could assess when the content that was important and necessary for Slovenia was involved. When we disagreed, we made that clear. Hence, the government of Janez Janša went on to pursue some very controversial measures and ways for which it is not possible to seek an explanation or excuse for acting in a difficult situation. Even in a difficult situation, you could choose moves and decide for those who are good, who bring progress and development to Slovenia. Therefore, Janša’s government has dismantled itself, collapsed itself, and the fact that it has helped Positive Slovenia in this demolition is absolutely not true because it has gained so much mistrust with these negative moves that it has simply reached the end of this coalition. And it's no big deal. After that, it's not the end of the world. Today the new government is likely to take place, but I would like only the following: in the debates it was already felt that this opposition consists of organising that, as soon as candidates and candidates are presented, some poles under their feet or inserting sticks between bicycles – already now that they have no opportunity to show anything but the answers to the questions on hearings. It has to wait! All of these candidates are selected very carefully, very cleverly and very carefully. I know for a fact that you wouldn't have come into this if you hadn't been the one. If Janša’s government has experienced a number of collapses during this period, and today we can talk about the end of agony and ecstasy of a certain period of government, it has absolutely gained a lot of knowledge and experience. It would be wrong for them to reject and reject the experience and knowledge acquired by the Yangtze government during that period. These experiences are also rich for us and for this government, which will rule, because we cannot afford the mistakes that have been made. I am sure that the work of the opposition, which also swears today – that the constructive opposition will work on these mistakes and alert the new government to things that are not good and that Slovenia will not bring us where we all want to go together. Today, it would be right to conclude our hands, to lay down our hands and say: In one year's time, the government will come to Parliament to confirm the confidentiality and until then, with all the strengths and all those who have shown us for our country, for our country, Slovenia, we will be able to endure so much patience and understanding that we will give support and support to all the good measures that the Government has prepared and which it has shown us in its programme, so that tomorrow all those who accompany us will be able to observe, that is, citizens and citizens, pleased with the work of the government and Parliament. Today I will give all my support to our mandate-holder and all my support to the Government – I suppose this is not something that needs to be stressed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u95	Thank you very much, Mr. Zanoskar. Mr Pišek is next, and Mr Janez Ribič is behind him.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u96	Thank you for your word. Nice hello to you all! The future president says, "Let's look to the future." How, though, if what was said yesterday is no longer valid today? At the beginning of the formation of this government, Mr jedan said that this would be one of the best governments so far, the most professional. After the composition of the Government, we have seen that of those first names, there is mainly only his name in there; and Mr. Židan, Mr. Virant, is the mandate-holder. At the time of the signing of the coalition agreement, the mandate holder then said that this was the optimal government team – there was no more talk about expertise, no experts here. In Slovenia, I don't know if you know, there's a joke. The phone rings, the housekeeper calls, and the real man sitting on a chair in front of a TV, drinking beer, and he has nothing to do: he calls Alenka and asks if we have any candidates for a finance minister. I'm afraid that's how this government was made up or how the finance minister was sought. I don't want to judge him because I don't know him, but given that according to the press, he was 17 on the list that he was offered this function and accepted it. I'm afraid I don't know who then made up this coalition contract, where there are financial commitments in it? [[...]] The Minister who had to defend this programme certainly did not participate in writing the programme if he was informed that he would be Minister only a few hours before signing the contract. As a result, I am also concerned about who will lead this government as well as the ministries. Will it be the uncles in the background or at least the presidents of the parties participating in the government? Presidents of the parties who are likely to oversee the work of their ministers and direct them to a programme that is written down to write something. And if we look at the presidents. Mandatorka, acting president of Positive Slovenia – in fact, it comes to mind because she probably doesn't even know where she fell and what she's waiting for. Every time she goes past the refrigerator, she'll hear the voice of the frozen president giving instructions on what to do and how to run the government. Mr Erjavec – the second president, also frozen, who will soon be president of himself because he will no longer have a party. Third President, Mr Luksic. Now that he's signed the treaty, he doesn't believe in his government, the government he represents because he didn't want to go into it. He prefers to stay in the party and prepare for early elections. And the flower of the presidents, Mr Virant – the man responsible for the fact that the first Janšev government, who was the only one in the basic composition who had successfully completed its mandate, could not continue another in a similar composition; the man with whom I was with, and many others, sat 14 days before his announcement of the establishment of his client at the SDS headquarters and we wrote a programme for SDS and then whether he did not know that he would set up his client or he did not want to say it and one thing was wrong; the man who prevented Janković's government; the man who destroyed the other Janšev's government; the man who, after writing the media, drove away most capable members from his party and the man I am sure will also destroy your government. These conflicts have already begun, whether blackmail or supposed extortion of energy transfers. Such a structure and such a composition of the government does not give us any optimistic hope that it will be positive. Especially because if we look at the coalition commitment programme, there are, in fact, some academic floscules or some parts of the programme that have actually been implemented already, which our government has already implemented: Croatia's accession, referendum legislation and so on. If I recall when the mandate-holder presented her programme 14 days ago, the essence of her programme was some criticism at the expense of the Ministry of Finance or the functioning of this department and the Ministry of Justice, then the announcement of the personnel tsunami, the raising of Jankovic. One thing I remembered in particular when she said that she would give greater importance to the Ombudsman's recommendations. We discussed this report a little earlier last year – of course it will continue in a similar way every year – where the same nanny demanded and achieved that they were changing windows in the Maribor prisons because the prisoners were in the wind during the winter. According to the Ombudsman’s recommendation, climates in prisons had to be placed in Maribor prisons because the prisoners had been overcrowded in the summer. I wonder if the next measure is the main measure of this government to give as much as possible and as quickly as possible to the deleted, because this is what I consider to be my first priority. I am afraid that there is too little concern for the Slovenians here, that there is too little economic programme, that there is too little single commitment to sell a single company that will finance deficits and investments, and I do not know what kind of social transfers. The billion that will meet there will probably run out very quickly. As a duped Slovenian, I want this government to succeed, but I'm afraid we'll all freeze together before winter. I'm afraid we can start accepting bets, or it will happen in the early autumn, the end of autumn, so I'd say, "Let the Slovenians dream today, tomorrow's PS. According to some explanations, this can be a positive Slovenia with its colleagues and another flood of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u97	Thank you very much, Mr. Pishek. It's Mr. Ribič, followed by Borut Ambrožič. You're giving up? And then there's Matei Pučnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u98	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! "My interior tells me strongly that I must remain humanly independent and free, not only historically useful and useful." These sobering words of Edward Kocbek, looking at some Members and Members who today are passionately advocating something that they fought violently against yesterday. He's also talking to me inside. He's talking so hard that I don't support the proposed ministerial team. I don't want to be useful just for this historic moment. Responsibility to the people is something else. With the approval of this government, the Assembly will adopt an economic, social and spiritual programme, the reality of which was definitively confirmed one year ago as tragic. And not because of the lack of expertise of ministers, but because of unethicalism. Today's the same picture. Most of the proposed ministers – we have seen – are familiar with the area allocated. But no one cried out because of the fact that the metropolis continues to be run by a man we all know what we know. And for some, that's, we all know, a pattern. Time to report, there is no time to argue, this is the situation in Slovenia. I will not interfere with the government's creative work. I appeal to everyone to do so. But I will pay very close attention to the ethical dimension of every move. Please all here present, please everyone staying in our country, and especially those who by the logic of the profession should do so, observe the ethics of the authorities, sharpen the sense of honesty and be strict. Fair leadership is a condition for the existence of the Slovenian people, for this people is largely so that it is possible to walk only fair through life, otherwise it will die. Dear ones, let us be aware of the situation and become aware of our own role and decide whether we want to be historically useful or human. And I wouldn't be a real Styrian if I didn't point out the candidates for ministers. I'm aware it totally doesn't matter where anyone comes from if ethical standards work. But if we give up ethics, there are other interests, including regional or local ones. That makes sense to look at where the ministers come from. It can be embarrassing for Members and Members of Parliament from that end that we are not able to place any of our representatives of the Minister, in the previous government and in this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mrs. Mateja Pučnik, behind her is Mrs. Renata Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u100	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President of the National Assembly. Dear Members and Members, the distinguished President of the Government, who is probably listening to us somewhere! Unfortunately, today I cannot support candidates for the new Slovenian government, because there are views, views, programmes and paths behind these candidates that I simply cannot support and do not accept. I would also like to see peace and prosperity return to Slovenia, but I fear that this path taken by the new government will not lead to it. Allow me to briefly touch on the area of education and education that this new coalition is collecting. I can understand from the new coalition agreement that, after some conversion, the new coalition has come to the realization that the consumption of the public sector needs to be reduced, as the former Minister of Finance reported earlier this year, and it has come across deaf ears, at least a large part of this new coalition. Indeed, both the largest parties, both the Positive Slovenia and the Social Democrats, have recently argued that there is a need to increase funding in the area of education and education, so that they can easily agree as a professor. However, I think that something soon the new government will also have to face the fact, the reality in the country, and then the end of the popular talk will be. The new coalition will also have to face the fact that money is not available, that it is not possible to take it from anywhere, and that proposing from cup to cup is not going anywhere or that we — which I fear the most personally — will be additionally indebted to and thus carelessly defer our debts to our future generations, which I strongly oppose as a mother of three. I therefore wonder how, for example, the Minister of Education and Education will conduct a contraction in education and education, given that he said he would not change standards and standards. I am more concerned that the future minister also has concerns about rationalisation at the summit, even when we are talking about the integration of institutions and public agencies working in the field of education and education. The former government had a draft act establishing a single centre to care for quality education and education, and unfortunately it was not able to do so. While the future minister says he will consult with the expert, I sincerely hope that he will take into account the views of teachers and administrators, whom I know they support association, and that he will not consult only experts from the institutions concerned, because in such a case this merger will never occur. Earlier, one of the debates said that it was education, sport and culture that would move Slovenia forward. I agree with that, but you know, and then I regret that the new coalition contract does not contain a single statement in the field of education and education under twelve priority projects or priorities. As if this area would no longer be a priority in the country and for this government. For this reason, I cannot expect the necessary amendment to the legislation under which the profession is calling. You know, it's easy and nice to talk about the autonomy of the teacher, about the autonomy of the school and the principal, about the reinstatement of authority, but if we don't help the teachers in this area with the right legislation, then we'll just stay with the words. The candidate for the Minister of Education also talked a lot about the movement of people and knowledge, particularly in the field of higher education. So, about the internationalization of higher education. But I remember very well the discussions that took place in Parliament last year when the law on higher education was passed. Members of the Positive Slovenia and Members of the Social Democrats against internationalisation, against foreign universities and foreign lecturers were there. So I have a feeling here that the minister will speak one, and he will do the other — especially what the parties will charge him with. However, I hate to say it back, but I must end by expressing my regret that former Minister Giga Turk had to deal with trade unions and their demands all year long, so that he failed to make positive substantive changes in the field of education and education, which I believe will unfortunately not be heard by this government. Since you have already set yourself a goal in a coalition contract instead of accessible and quality education, you have set a goal of increasing and additional investment in the public education system. There is no assumption that some programmes are good, but some are not. For all these reasons that I have listed and many that I do not have time to list now, this government does not have my vote today. However, since I know that you have learned from the past that you have counted on time this time, I believe that this government will receive sufficient support today, so I would like to ask it not to undermine those good projects that we have built with difficulty last year and are good both for Slovenia and for our citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mrs Renata Brunskole has the floor, Mr Andrej Chuš is preparing. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Dear President! Dear Madame President of the Government! Friends and colleagues, hello! "The main points of focus of the Brussels European Council are fiscal sustainability, fiscal consolidation, youth employment and greater competitiveness for the start of the economy." These were the words of the President of the Government when he presented himself, and I also agree that it is precisely economic growth that can lead the Republic of Slovenia to a relaunch of the economy, to a reduction in unemployment. How, though, can all these goals be achieved? The effective functioning of the banking system by eliminating credit crunches is also of great importance to the greater competitiveness and start-up of the economy, which will provide quality, fast and efficient service to businesses. Our companies are over-indebted, under-indebted or recapitalised according to today's statistics. In a number of cases, these companies face competitiveness problems, followed by insolvency payments, insolvency, difficulties in returning credits or, as a result, by low corporate ratings, also by difficulties in hiring or restoring credits. However, large infrastructure projects are of great importance when starting up the economy. Only these are also a prerequisite for a more equitable development of the Republic of Slovenia, including outside the city centres. This is about more rural accessibility for investors who would like to build factories outside of large urban centres. On the other hand, the construction of large infrastructure projects is of great importance to our construction companies. Businesses would have jobs, people would have jobs. In the area of the Republic of Slovenia, a third development axis project is also very important among major infrastructure projects. I talk about this project a lot, from Koroška to Bela Krajina. This project is also enshrined in the Coalition Treaty, although it is a long-term project and in one year we will certainly not be able to do enough to say: we are now driving on the third development axis. However, if projects go forward, if supported by previous governments and supported by this government, then it means that we are in favour of the development of the Republic of Slovenia. The opportunity is also in the accelerated use of European cohesion funds. This year, in 2013, the European financial perspective 2007-2013 is being concluded. We already have the next financial perspective 2014-2020. Candidate for Minister of Economy, Mag. Stanko Stepišnik stressed in his presentation the importance of companies that are innovative, development-oriented, export and competitive, both in Slovenia and in the world. Such companies are also on the routes of the so-called third development axis, which is called precisely because they want to add a development component to all areas that are neglected today. Nevertheless, let me list some of the successful companies or industries in these areas. In Koroškem this is the automotive industry, is the Ravne ironworks, there is no housewife on the central part who does not know the company Gorenje, in the southern part of the factory Krka, Revoz, Adria, Kolpa and so on. These companies also include companies that are partly owned by the State, and I strongly support the coalition agreement itself, in order to amend the Slovenian State Holding Act to the extent that the ownership of the State in these companies is retained or that there is a substantial reflection on the classification of investments by state-owned enterprises. One such example is also the successful company of Krka Novo Mesto, and it is true that in this direction the plans of the previous government are also to retain ownership in this company as a strategically important investment. I agree that the only purpose of the short-term measures is to have long-term consequences, as the Prime Minister has pointed out. Of course, it is our wish that these are positive consequences, so I will vote in favour of the proposed list of candidates and candidates for ministers and ministers of the new government. I want good cooperation, good luck to the government and happy Slovenia!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr Andrej Cuz has the floor, Mr Jožef Kavtičnik is preparing and Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat is behind him.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u104	Mr President, thank you for your word. And a good greeting to all the Members present and to the Members! When I look at the geographical representation of the members of the new government, the incoming government, I must be honest to say that I am disappointed. This is obviously not only about the garmin coalition, but it is about the garmin coalition of the government from the center and other over-developed regions of Slovenia. There are bright exceptions, but there's only one. When I think about how this government works, it seems to me that all governments will be more than a town council meeting with Mr Zoran Jankovic. I will touch on the field of youth, where I think that this year, when the government has had the opportunity to work, it has done a great deal of good and has made every effort, as far as possible, to create a youth-friendly environment. Here I would particularly stress the reform of the labour market, with which I hope that as many young people as possible will become part-time jobs in the future. Second, he would point out subsidies for monthly tickets for students and students who, according to some calculations, also bring savings to certain families of EUR 1,000 500 per student or student per year. Here I would like to commend Minister Viszak, who has hired over 3,000 young graduates and graduates with projects for the employment of young people, such as the First Challenge. I would also like to point out the changes to the scholarship policy adopted by the Government a few weeks ago. It is about correcting the criminal act of Minister Svetlik and allowing students, i.e. minors, to receive scholarships. I hope that this coming government too will have a hearing for salvation and the best solutions in the youth field. Secondly, I have read yours, I can say a story that speaks a lot about the regionalisation of Slovenia, the reduction of interregional differences, including development – Mr Čehovin spoke about this earlier, czech that Mr Janković does not need to give up because Ljubljana is developing well and Slovenia does not. Here I have one picture showing that the government of Borut Pahor in 2011 or that in 2011, Ljubljana and the Central Slovenian region devoted 60 per cent of all state resources to the aid and development of the regions. 60 percent! All the other regions only got 40. Now I ask how the municipality like Ljubljana should work if it did not get that much funding. The Podravska region, which includes the Municipality of Maribor, the Municipality of Ptuj, Ormož, received 6% and the city of Ljubljana 60 percent – you have this every day between and milk! Secondly, the debate on regionalisation, which the new government will seek, is a great thing. We can discuss the regionalisation of Slovenia for days and nights – we all agree with that – but in June 2008 we had a consultative referendum that made it clear that Slovenia wants regionalisation. It is interesting that the majority opinion was expressed only in Ljubljana or the Central Slovenian region against the regionalisation of Slovenia, while support for regionalisation grew according to underdevelopment in other regions. That's why I don't think we need to discuss anything here anymore, but we need to act first, because what we're talking about, people are listening and watching. They've had enough of us. What I think about the question of the development of the worse regions – here you say a lot that this is your priority, but it seems that it is definitely more at the bottom, at least as far as the lower Podravje is concerned. On every occasion and at every opportunity, I will ask you the following: The Regulation on the State Spatial Plan for the Drazenci-Gruškovje motorway section was adopted in September 2010 – when are we going to take action? People who come from Croatia to Slovenia and see the European Union table laugh at the roads they ride. Second, when can I take Ptuj to Ormož on a normal fast road? People have been waiting 10 years for action, nothing. When will the Ptuj-Juršinci-Gornja Radgon regional road, which runs through Podvinci, be completed? People are just waiting. So I'm very skeptical about this regional development of yours, especially if you work at Mr. Pahor's level when the center of Slovenia had the only one of the state funds. My task and I hope that the task of the Members of the Lower Podrav and of Styria, Prekmurje, will also draw attention to coherent regional development. I am very skeptical, so today I will not give you any support, but if you come to the National Assembly with measures to encourage this, I will commend you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u105	Thank you very much. One correction, Mr Kavtičnik has already discussed, so I apologize to him for naming him again. Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Poropat is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u106	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Hello, everyone! We have been presented with candidates and candidates for ministers of the new government, which is made up of mags. Alenka Bratušek, first term in the history of Slovenia. Everyone on the parental boards got their support. Today I am sure the new government will also be elected. I congratulate the distinguished President of the Government, Mrs Alenka Bratušek, on her courage to accept the challenge, especially because the times are extremely difficult. I also congratulate her for not being intimidated by the objections that some have begun to express as soon as she has accepted the mandate. Today, the Commissioner presented the priorities, among which the most important is that the new government believes that it is necessary to start the economy first, which will result in new jobs. The latter is urgently needed, as unemployment in our country is extremely high and the survival situation of citizens is extremely serious, especially among young people. Support for education, development, innovation is also very encouraging, advocacy for the rule of law, culture and so on. With the new government, we will get a separate Ministry of Culture. Dr. Uroš Griltz is running for minister, who convinced me he was going to be a good minister. I would read his sentence, which he said at the presentation, and I think it's very important. He said: "Culturality must be understood as a factor of development, not as its foreign non-essential cost, but as a sector that contributes significantly to the development of the country and society." A few more words about the rule of law. The Commissioner said she would stand up for the rule of law. Today, several debaters have mentioned in this Chamber that they see the rule of law mainly in view of the fact that the former President of Positive Slovenia will be – this is Zoran Jankovic, for whom the anti-corruption commission has also issued a negative opinion, which is of course burdensome for him. That it would be right and ethical for Mr Jankovic to resign, I believe so too, but I believe that this is mainly a matter of the Municipality of Ljubljana or its inhabitants. For me personally, the rule of law is that country – and our country will be the rule of law when trials are conducted and concluded within a reasonable period of time, i.e. all procedures, not just some; when all citizens are equal before the court, so that the President of the Government, as an ordinary citizen, will have to be dealt with when they are called upon; when those who have illegally acquired property will also be persecuted; when workers receive payment for their work and the entrepreneur will not be able to win them, as is the case today, that the entrepreneur set up a new company and transfers the money there, the employees will file an action because they have legal protection. In the end, it's all barren because they get a judgment that I should pay them, and there's no money. I think that the new government will also have to consider this and propose a change of legislation, because these things are really not an honor. A few more words about the elections, as more debaters have also spoken about the elections today. Of course, the terms of Article 117 of the Constitution, which states that it has scissors and canvas, or the President of the Government, who should come to the National Assembly, should be in the hands of the electoral call. And the Constitution says that if he doesn't get a confidant, then the president of the state will call the election. Since the President of the Government did not do so, of course there was no way for us to get to the early elections. Otherwise, I do not think that early elections before the amendment of electoral legislation would have produced the result that the crowds are expecting or demanded on the street. In particular, they want to elect an individual, not a list of parties. Let me finish. I wish the new government a successful job! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor. Get Mr. Franz Puksič ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u108	Thank you so much for saying that. A good four years ago, when we called the Pahor government in the National Assembly, this was my first experience in appointing the government in this Parliament, and I was, understandably, quite euphoric at the time. I now admit that there are no reasons for euphoria in the appointment of the new Slovenian government, the first run by a woman. I think that in a given situation, the President of the Government has managed to form a good team, which is politically weak, but this can also be her advantage. There has been a lot of talk on some subjects today in this debate. Among other things, some Members, particularly colleagues from northeastern Slovenia, have pointed to the issue of regional development. The domicile of ministers was also mentioned. Let me mention that I consider two people in the Government to be a Mariborian; Dejan Židan, who was born in Maribor and Maribor, also lives with his parents, and love took him to Prekmurje, and Mr Maher, who apparently left his hometown on the eve of living conditions and now lives in Primorska. They too will have a special responsibility for the position of the second largest Slovenian city. Well, Mr Cuz earlier mentioned that we are talking long and wide about regional development in this coalition contract. I'm afraid not. Regional development is mentioned only in one paragraph, and it is a very sceptic and very principled one. I expect the Government of Regional Development Instruments to come up with, and in doing so to the institutions and mechanisms that we already have available today and are regulated by the Harmonised Regional Development Act, add mechanisms that we do not currently use in Slovenia and are available to us as members of the European Union as well as to other countries. We are talking, for example, about the mechanisms of the European Investment Bank, through which development money can be multiplied and managed wisely, including the structural and cohesion funds of the European Union. We do not use these mechanisms in Slovenia at all. And one of the things to be pointed out is that these are smart energy efficiency programs, city energy restructuring, the creation of urban development funds, micro loans to small and medium-sized enterprises. These are the mechanisms that this country needs, and I expect the government to bring them to life. Another time. The fact is that the aid will not come from outside, that Slovenia has to help itself. This also applies to regional environments. It would be important, however, to give regions, especially regions that are underdeveloped, far away from the promised development of the Ljubljana City Municipality, which exceeds the European average, mechanisms for developing themselves. In this respect, I draw attention to one fact, the fact that we have an extraordinary regional wealth in Podravje, said Drava. The Drava River, the source of the cheapest and purest energy in the country. And perhaps the rhetorical question is, what do the Drava Valley and the Drava Field have today? Nothing. Even what is a legal obligation, i.e. the resources of the water fund, flow to the other end of Slovenia. Flood protection — we see how it is. And this flood protection of Drava Valley and Drava Field is one of the priorities that must be taken seriously into account by the new Government, Minister Jakič and Minister of Environment and Agriculture, Mr Židan. I think that even if what I said was regulated, we would still have very little from regional wealth. My colleague Meh knows he has regional wealth in his valley. From this regional wealth is now fueled by the largest investment in the country and – Happy, two thousand jobs? [[advertising from the hall]] More than two thousand jobs. From the Drava chain we have 200 jobs in Podravje, of which the competitiveness of all Slovenian energy on this Drava energy is lost. Two hundred jobs and none more. I therefore appeal to the Government to consider the mechanism for how part of this cheap and clean drav energy can be used to promote the competitiveness of our local economy. This is not a expectation of Ljubljana, it is a demand of the region to be able to stand on its own. Furthermore, we have a number of comparative advantages in Maribor. Comparative advantages, which have so far been partly due to local authorities, and partly because of ignoring the country, we have not been able to take advantage of them effectively enough. One of these is an outstanding position at the fifth, tenth corridor – railway and airport. We've built a new terminal for an empty airport. I heard a story days ago that Chinese investors flew in on a private plane to the Maribor airport and when they landed, they looked at a new terminal and wondered what was wrong here. New airport, new terminal, but no air traffic. I expect that the new Slovenian government will take procedures as soon as possible to settle land issues at the airport's location, to adopt the State Spatial Plan and to sign an international tender to find a strategic investor for the development of the airport and the logistics centre around it. Furthermore, let me conclude this third point, and I promise this government that I will also remind it of this through parliamentary initiatives. Municipal municipalities are in a specific position. All local communities in the country are faced with the problem of being repeatedly given tasks in Parliament, and these tasks are not balanced with the financial contribution to the performance of these tasks. At the same time, local municipalities have a regional dimension, which has so far not been recognised by the legislation governing the financing of municipalities. I therefore expect the new Slovenian government to prepare and adopt a law on the financing of urban municipalities. The differentiation between the financing of municipalities and municipalities and the extension for this has already been prepared at the time of the Pahor government, in order to recognise this regional dimension and the regional weight of the urban centres in our country. In doing so, it would be worth considering something else; see when Europe faced the crisis, it has developed a number of mechanisms for the rehabilitation and stabilisation of public finances within the European Union and within national countries. In Slovenia, we need mechanisms to help the local communities, which, because of their own problems or objective developmentalities, are in difficulty to restructure their debt in a smart way, without this regional and local environment canceling development. Let me conclude with the role that each Member and every Member should have in Parliament. I must admit that as an opposition Member in this House, I felt better than I did before in the coalition. And I believe it will be similar now. With such a lack of confidence in the public in Slovenian politics, we must ask ourselves about the changes that each of us must make in its way. I will support this government because I am a coalition Member because I trust Alenka Bratušek and because she believes that she has chosen the best possible team in the given time frame. However, I remain a Member, and I predict that as a Member I will weigh and judge every proposal of this Government. And I think we all have to do the same. Let us make sure that there will be no more automation between the government and parliament, what the government proposes the coalition supports and the opposition rejects, but that we will be able to be selective enough to do so, because this is a source of some new confidence that we need to establish in Slovenian politics. The new Slovenian government, 11th in a row, good luck!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Pukšič has the floor to prepare Mr Saša Cigler.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, Commissioner! Today it was heard that the new team also consisted of a team spirit, a common team spirit on this spring day. And it was said that on this spring day, we get the first woman to run the government. All of this is so far true that we get the first woman at the head of the government. I regret to add that this is also the last Slovenian government on the first day of spring – unfortunately, the last Slovenian government. The next Slovenian government will be directed by the European Troika. As for the top team and experts when it was said they weren't lost on the way. That's right. But it's true that she just didn't get them. One thing is true: that the previous government in the area of Ljubljana and neighbouring Kranj had 5 ministers, the current government has 9 and then 3 from Primorska. In short, you can see where the election base came from. And then there were two other statistical errors that happened at every measurement: Steph from Celje and Jew from Murska Sobota. The previous composition was substantially different and more evenly distributed across Slovenia. Before me, my colleague Frangež, who had unsuccessfully run for mayor for the first man of second place in the Republic of Slovenia, spoke about this regional division. My colleague, if you hadn't fought within the coalition, I would have supported you – the Minister for Styers abroad. Because we've been feeling like we're abroad for some time now when we're on temporary work in Ljubljana. But I know you wouldn't have had the support of some of your client colleagues, just like you didn't get in the mayoral elections. When I started talking about this being the last Slovenian government – it didn't grow on my pupil, but it's written in Finance today. Egon Zakrošek, who works as you know, at the US Central Bank. The fact is that we have three governments in 2011, 2012 and 2013. It's actually a disaster, in such a short period of time, so many substitutions. He says: "The dominant half of this coalition is the left who advocates the capture and economic policy which has proved completely ineffective in the last 20 years." Well, after I've read on, let the new government limit the austerity measures taken by the Yanshe government, it says, "These were serious steps towards saving the country." The next question was where Slovenia would be at the end of the year. "More in the larger crisis. If the government still exists, I expect it to ask for international assistance." Next question: Do you have any idea who would have hoped to do this in Slovenia? And he says, "No, but someone's going to have to, because we're going to be cornered." You know what "tipped into a corner" means? This means that citizens and citizens, including those who have 500, 600, 700 euros of wages today, who work at Mercator and at other trade prices, will not get paid for two or three months, but have saved themselves in one way or another by selling eggs or anything to be frozen savings in such rotten banks as NKBM and Nova Ljubljanska Bank. Unfortunately, they don't have in UniCredit, which worked with a plus last year, and these two state banks worked with such a minus that if they wanted to cover it, they should sell the entire Mercator and the Triglav Insurance Company. Why is someone so pessimistic who comes to work at the U.S. Central Bank? Yeah, obviously because he knows his finances. Apparently because he reads what we do, so numbers in our country. Ms Alenka Bratušek will remember, or as Director of the Finance Directorate, that I was here in the National Assembly – then the Minister of Local Self-Government – several of them – Minister Gaspari and Prime Minister Borut Pahor asked what the hell was going on with the use of the financial perspective 2007-2013. And when you look at numbers like that, 23. Ten. 2009 Mrs Andreja Jerina blocked the 300,000 euro inflow into the state budget and blocked calls in all areas throughout the year. Colleagues and colleagues, the figures show that we are at the end of 2008 and there was a perspective [[Incomprehensible]] In the summer only negotiated, signed contracts for 1 billion 600 and something. At the end of 2011, when this government coalition with Borut Pahor, which now consists of a new coalition with everyone else, was pumped, certified, only EUR 1 billion 200. In a single year now, under the leadership of this government coalition, we have managed to certify more than half a million euro in Brussels. But that doesn't help. Colleagues and colleagues, if I touch a little political work. In an interview, Mr Milan Kučan, who must have been the authority of this left-wing government, which has led the country in defeat in the last 20 years, said this about Mr Zoran Jankovic. The former President agrees that the position can be discussed that Jankovic is not bringing anything new into politics – he says, "This is possible if we take away the results Jankovic has." And the anti-corruption commission said it's for 2.4 [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u111	Thank you very much, Mr. Puksich. The word is from the President of the Government, mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u112	Thank you. Mr Zakrošek also said a few years ago that we would ask for money, but then you did not want to hear it, colleagues and colleagues from a few hours of the government coalition. Unfortunately today, Slovenia should not only speak to Mr Zakrešek for international monetary assistance, but also to the former Minister in your government, Mr Šuštersič. I believe he knows the numbers perfectly well, and he knows what he's been doing and done in this one year. But, ladies and gentlemen, if you are confident today that Slovenia must go for money, I hope that you will remember who led the government last year and who has taken the steps that have led to the need for help from Slovenia, according to your words. In this place, however, I hope to say that, with the measures that we are preparing, we know and can solve our own public financial problems.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr Saša Ciglar has the floor, prepare for Mr Branko Ficko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Honourable Prime Minister of the Government, distinguished colleagues, colleagues, nice greetings! The new government team was presented today as an optimal or optimist. The definition of optimism is that this is the best or best situation with respect to the given option. Speaking of state, I mean your program. The definition of ideal or ideal is : which contains certain best properties to the highest degree. Well, I would expect or better that your team be ideal, not just optimal. So this government team is the best thing that a modest and modest program has been able to get, or otherwise, — but it was no longer possible. I've been listening very carefully these past few days. I've been monitoring some of them through transmissions. I've been working on some of them myself. The candidates presented the programmes, one in more detail, the other in a little less detail, not to say very superficially. When we raised some facts through our questions, we waited for answers and were still waiting. We have received a comforting response to make it more clear over time, which I understand is that your program will be designed in the opposite direction. This is about like setting up a company today, setting up a CEO, a technical director and other important co-workers, and then starting to wonder what we're going to do, what kind of product or service we're going to offer to the market and where the market niche is. After every healthy logic, it is clear that first it is an idea and based on the idea we set our final goals and are developing a strategy for how to achieve the ultimate goal. But you started on a goal that was in every way to overthrow the government of Janez Janša, and now you are going in reverse order to look for an idea. I find it difficult to understand how some candidates for a minister could have answered specific questions with "I don't know yet" or given us general floscules as you hear them in some pre-election speech. I would expect that, given your ambitions to take over the Government in any way, you can at least present to the public what measures you will take to achieve your objectives. Before that, there was a talk about getting on the wagon and turning it in the right direction. But it seems to me that this wagon has a garmina that's been recalculating all the time, but it doesn't have wheels. Your coalition commitment is a sales catalogue that has some pictures of the products, but you do not have any relevant technical data and no price. Then how can you convince me that it is you who is offering or offering us something good, if you don't know exactly what you're offering? In this case, I would like and expect you to have an ideal team and a detailed strategy in advance, not later. Because we don't have time for this anymore. We had this prepared before our government performed, and we were able to start working immediately. As has already been said, we must give everyone an opportunity to turn out, and here I wish you all happiness and success, and I hope that you will have in mind concrete ideas and measures so that you can wrap your sleeves. You don't have my support for this optimally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Ficko has the floor, Mrs Eva Irgle is preparing.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u116	Dear Prime Minister of the Government. Ladies and gentlemen! Slovenia needs growth and development and, above all, new jobs, not intimidation, taking and ideological differentiation. A good year ago, voters decided that the country should be headed by a manager in an entrepreneurial spirit, not a political one. At that time, the President of the Politburo took over his ideology in the interest of the third republic. Share and rule for your own, not for all citizens of Slovenia. He began his mandate by recruiting his men and finishing it until his last breath. All those who are not theirs are left on the road. There are no jobs because the economy has stopped, of course the results are devastating. Even Pomurci are still behind the average of Slovenia's average. We have knowledge, working habits, natural wealth, but unfortunately a lot of people are working in Austria, which should otherwise be the model of the country during the crisis. On the other hand, we have Hungary - sold out, with a low standard, an authoritarian regime, a direction with which the current leader, or the president of the government, was sympathetic, and of course we do not want that. We don't want dark faces and we don't want to communicate through videoconferencing. We want freshness, sensitivity to people, direct communication, a team with a team spirit, refreshed, younger, softer with a woman's resolve. Anything to restore hope and trust in this country. We have to look ahead. Let's forget what was bad, even though we won't be able to make up for the lost year. All with the aim of growth and job development and thus the satisfaction of all Slovenians. Tina Maze showed us that she's winning with a good team, and Alenka Bratusek will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mrs Eva Irgle has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Lucky Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u118	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! So today we're going to get a new government. But whether it's good or bad news. We will probably be able to assess this in the easiest and most competent way in about a year, when the President of the Government, as she said, will come to the National Assembly for confidentiality, as she wrote in an exceptionally weak coalition contract. However, something is undoubtedly clear today. This government, which you will vote and confirm today, will have an extremely poor journey, as it will be historically recorded as the Government, which has cut down the current one-year government and stopped the successful rescue of Slovenia. And since there has been much talk throughout the day in the National Assembly about the status of Mr Zoran Jankovic, my opinion is as follows: Mr Zoran Jankovic, when he froze, in my opinion, did not go backwards, Mr Zoran Jankovic even made progress. Today, Mr Zoran Jankovic has officially become another uncle from behind, and they have the most incredible and powerful power in Slovenia. It is within them that this political power is the most concentrated. This power is demonstrated by the fact that, if they wish to do so, they can overthrow the government, and they can make up their powerful governments, and they have been crocheting and knitting for so long that, in fact, Slovenia cannot breathe properly. They also place marionettes as heads of government because of their power so that they can make good their wishes and interests. That is also why today we have a finance minister coming from the NLB bank, who will – how interesting – be in charge of the resolution of banks or the banking system. Those who are responsible or responsible for the bad situation in banks will now be rehabilitated. I don't believe it. And it seems to me that the minister is going to be erasing more information that could be burdened than he's going to be sanitizing. In addition to the resolution of the banking system, the Prime Minister of the Government has set herself the most time or as a key priority in the programme to fight corruption. In his hearing before the competent committee, Dr. Gregor Virant said the same thing. In short, everyone will fight corruption. I agree with that, I have been pointing this out for years, but it seems to me that some have only won this rhetoric recently. Here again, distinguished President of the Government, I am sorry that you are not in the Hall of the National Assembly, I suggest that if you are serious about the fight against corruption, then start with this fight at the Municipality of Ljubljana. I keep saying that because I think you didn't want to hear it the last time. Sometimes it's better to repeat it more than once, and maybe that's when it'll be heard. If you want people to trust you and believe that you are not just a puppet in the hands of individuals or if you want to clean up uncles from behind, then you must first clean up with corruption in your own kind. The next thing you did at the beginning, not today, but lastly, when we appointed you Prime Minister of the Government, you said your government would be made up professionally and not politically. But if I look at exactly your client or ministers coming from your party, then we can say that we are at least those names far from professionalism, but we are very close to politics. You have proposed four ministers, one of whom is not a politician – yes, a banker – and three of them are tabulated politicians. With this you have certainly eaten that I do not make any more harsh expressions, my first and extremely important promise that you will give the profession priority over politics. On the basis of such actions, I am very interested in what you will have to break further in order to satisfy the wishes of those who have enabled you to do so. Otherwise, personally, I wish you all the good in your further work. I hope that you will be able to meet at least some of the goals you have set yourself, especially once again, if you fight corruption, then do so by trusting you and first cleaning up before your own threshold. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr. Happy Meh has the floor. Get ready, mag. Barbara Žgajner Tavš and behind her Mrs Alenka Jeraj. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u120	Good-bye! Actually, I've been sitting in the National Assembly all day since I was 12. I figured we'd say what we didn't tell the boards that we'd tell the President of the government how we'd help and cooperate. Instead, the accusations, the ugly words, are essentially inappropriate for the National Assembly. There is no old government, ladies and gentlemen, and neither is your government nor our government. It is the Slovenian government, whatever Slovenian government is our government and whenever we talk about one of the governments, then we do not talk about ours, we can talk about the government of Janez Janša, we can talk about the government of Borut Pahor, Alenka Bratušek, but this is our Slovenian government, so we should behave. And so today it would be appropriate to hear a position, as she is told, whether you listened to the voice of the opposition at the ZUJF. We said there'd be a lot of things wrong. The Constitutional Court said that there was a lot of things wrong and you didn't listen. You don't listen now because you're not used to listening. In fact, I listened very carefully when you tried to talk. To talk about the lack of knowledge in the Government – then it seems to me that if there are six Doctors of Science and at least two or three Masters in the Government, it is indeed an underestimation of everything, including the common sense of the Slovenes and Slovenes. And even if the ministers are now inappropriate – ladies and gentlemen, they were extremely suitable a year ago. At that time, you praised them and were the same ministers in the government that you were extremely praising. Of course, the problem is that today you are talking about how we wanted to overthrow the government of John Janša. Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, Janez Janša, we have already told you this several times today, he has had every opportunity to resign as a man who respects laws and has not resigned. Neither did he come to the National Assembly and we put a constructive trust in him because something had to be done. End of this claim that someone can run a government and that courts and laws do not apply to it. When Mr Tanko spoke about hope and about the fact that Positive Slovenia was not placed in the political European space, I was hoping that Jože Tanko would say what he would expect from the Member of State. That is to say that this may be a weakness that we will correct by all who will do anything in the European space and where we have our Members, we try to represent in the political space the benefits of Slovenia – but no, we are doing just the wrong thing! So we cannot find common points to help Slovenia and this government, because it is our government. What is John Janša’s government doing today? The staff, ladies and gentlemen, replaces and reorganises the last agencies and places their personnel wherever they can. Unsanitaryly, let's say that the replacement in Gen is actually unhygienic, they don't look at what my opinion is about Director Gene and the replacement he made, but in Elektro and others. That is why it would be right today to say what we think about this government, and I will try to say what I have not been able to say in the hearings. In fact, we should show culture here in the National Assembly, and we are far from culture. Now, here's what I'd like to say in particular. A young colleague, as said or young gentleman here in the National Assembly, asked me how many Slovenian companies work at the Termoelectrica Šostanj. Why didn't he ask his Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen? The President of the government had everything in his hands so he could do it and he did not do it – he asks me. And, of course, this same Prime Minister of the Government started the procedure for Block 6. Why, then, did we not agree on what we could do and what we could do? It has been turned around, ladies and gentlemen, to ask a Member, who is otherwise from the Valley of Silesian, how many of our businesses work. We have the Government, the Economic Minister and the President of the Government to do so. He should do it. Of course, I ask if the young colleague or gentleman still remembers when we proposed to save the Primorje, but there was no interest in saving him and other economic societies. And there was no interest in saving him! Therefore, Slovenian folklore – do you remember what European Member Peterle did when we adopted the Law on Guarantee for the Italian Power Plant in the National Assembly? Do you remember? He wrote a letter and spoke to the entire world of Europe about this being wrong and that it would be TES 6 to stop. And he's a member of our country. So long, ladies and gentlemen, as long as we go to Europe as our outgoing Prime Minister of the Government and in Europe, we talk about going bankrupt and putting negative signs where we will write letters where our people will write – until we work for our country, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot be the ones we will draw for so long, and we will not enjoy confidence for so long. Of course, in the National Assembly there is also an extremely interesting area of expression, insult. Who gives a young man the right to speak about those who do not speak like him, bark, or bark in this National Assembly? Who gives him that right? Where does this right come from, a person who has been led by a system to what it is today, and says that education should be overwinded because who will do it? Many educated people work hard and work very hard, and they are the only ones who can lead the way or show us what to do. And finally. The government of Janez Janša announced that the third axis, such as it is, will not – the highway to Velenje and beyond. That it is not appropriate that the second route is not appropriate and not the first, not the second, not the third. My message today to the President of the Government is that, for God's sake, they should do any kind of route and accept it, without constantly changing the route and talking about the need to do something. That's what I'd tell the minister, and I didn't know that at the time when it was a checkup. So this route is not fitting for John Janša, because he goes as they say, near his house in Shentil; and the other route is not suitable for another man on that side. But with us, the economy is dying because they can't work. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, it would be right to give such messages to the President of the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mrs Alenka Jeraj has the floor to prepare Mr Ivan Hršak, mag. Melita Zupevec and then Mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u122	Thank you for your word. Some of the speakers said that Mrs Bratusek was brave because she and her team would take over the leadership of the country at this time. If I were really brave, I'd ask you to first find out if her master's job is plagiarism. How quickly everything went out with Mr. Ambrožič, I'm sure you'll recall. On suspicion of suspicion, you've already ruled him out of the party and he's become an independent MP. In the interest of the mandate-holder, it should be clear as well as irregularities at the time of the President of the Council of the Public Economic Office of Brdo. However, if this is not the case, or if we do not expect it to happen, we would certainly ask the new coalition partners to clarify their accusations of plagiarism before giving it their vote. When the FDV Senate tells us what it's like, we'll see. Mrs. Bratušek, however, predicted that she would resign at that time. Well, maybe in 14 days we'll have a government without a Prime Minister if that happens. Unserious and unfair to citizens and citizens. On her team, she predicted more experts than politicians, that's her first failure, she failed. There are far more than half of the politicians on the list of candidates for ministers, and they are burdened by many others. Let me mention just a few. The candidate for the Minister of Infrastructure and Space has black construction – so the inspection he will lead or, as is the case with his ministry, will punish him first? She's gonna tear down his black construction? The Minister of Economy, a candidate for the Minister of Economy, has been unjustifiably granted a subsidy for waiting workers for six months, even though they were coming to work, and is therefore in the forecast procedure on the proposal of the Regional Unit of the Employment and Trade Union Office. He was also getting money, I believe, for education. These funds were granted to him by the Ministry of Labour at the time of Pahor's Government, and the then Minister of Svetlik also had to supervise these funds, and the Secretary of State, Dr. Anja Kopač Mrak, who was then Secretary of State and today she is a candidate for Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. She didn't want to answer the question about it at the hearing. Uroš Grilc is also in the investigation or in the process. The Minister for Agriculture, Mr Dejan Židan, is the great Ombudsman of agricultural land, and in the case of the Municipality of Ljubljana, he has longed for both eyes and has burned many things. The biggest scandal is probably what we read in the reporter today. Even before the election of the new government, future Defence Minister Roman Jakič is already receiving directives from Klemna Grošlja, who is to be cleaned in his department and who is to be appointed. In addition to the cabinet, he is expected to replace the Chief of General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces, Dobran Bozič, as soon as possible, and to take control of the military intelligence service. Mr Grošelj writes: "With some thoughtful human resources moves, we could take control of the intelligence and security service and, above all, the situation in it." Do you remember the security-intelligence talks? What does that mean? For that, the minister would be intertwined if he were already a minister. If I can read anything else that Mr Grošelj writes: "As far as intelligence and security services are concerned, the matter is actually problematic, but it is not hopeless, there are also professional staff on which we can rely and through them, with some thoughtful human resources moves, take control of the job and especially the events in it. But at the same time, I heard more about the Chief of General Staff than I expected, and it disappointed me a little bit." I think that the Commissioner should seriously consider whether Mr Jakič is, in view of the fact that he is a suitable candidate for the Minister of Defence. Of course I won't give that dream team a vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u123	Procedurally, Mr. Roman Jakič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u124	Thank you for your word. Mr Vice-President, if colleagues and colleagues respected the Constitution and the legislation, they would today defend Member Roman Jakič, who was in violation of the right to privacy and the right to communication privacy. Otherwise, I have launched all the legal remedies and, of course, I have to say that it would be good to protect Members from reading from the gallery over their shoulder, what is on their laptops, on their computers and on their phones. I have been communicating, since I was a candidate, with ten defence experts and one such communication today, in public and instead of protesting what Ramšak said was that someone was following me and listening to what I was saying in Ljubljana, and that someone was painting my personal mail, they are now problematic about communication. This is essentially for the National Assembly, especially for a temple that is supposed to protect human rights, something that should not have happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u125	Thank you very much. So, Mr Jakič, of course, there is no trace of what anyone is watching in this hall. The gallery is open to visitors, and we need to keep an eye on what we have on the benches. It's my turn, as it were, mag. Branko Grimes. Get ready, mag. Jana Jenko and then Mr. Richard Branisel.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u126	Your Honor, good-bye to all of you! For the government of Mr Borut Pahor, there are no very good words for the transition left today. In some ways, everyone acknowledges that this was the least successful government in the history of Slovenia. Yet, on a proposal like it is before us today, the composition of that government in the eyes of many Allstars dream team. The Commissioner announced that she would give priority to professionalism, the profession, and that she had also stressed this earlier in the introductory address, and that she would give priority to the emancipation of women. You know, that's always the difference between words and actions. And what about the actions? Today, Dr. Ljubica Jelusic, an exceptional expert in the field of defence, is in the ranks of those who make up the coalition, but the candidate is Roman Jakič. This is said to be an obvious advantage to politics over professionalism and the emancipation of women. There is probably some way to see what the policy of this government will be, and it becomes even more obvious when we look at the reporting of foreign media. When it came to the government of Janez Janša, to refresh his memory, in Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung, one of the world’s most respected newspapers, wrote that it was the Government that had brought Slovenia with amazing success on the path of the rehabilitation of state finances. In just a year, she managed to halve the budget deficit. In October, it sold 10-year bonds only at 4.3% interest rates and thus prevented the financial collapse. Through Parliament, the pension reform and the 2013 and 2014 budgets were carried out. The next one's on the bank recovery program. The collapse of this government would destabilize Slovenia and bring it closer to bankruptcy. When they talk about the proposal for a new government, foreign media announces a visit to the troika, problems and wonders how it will be with representational expertise in this government. Obviously justified, for once again I say: she has occupied the ranks of members of Dr Ljubica Jelusic, and Roman Jakič is a candidate for the Minister of Defence. Let him understand this emancipation of women, according to the Commissioner's words, and this fight for expertise, as she has called it, who can. I personally think that the lady has a very good sense of humor, because she has said those words and, in so doing, she has remained serious in her own proposal. So what's Slovenia waiting for? Slovenia obviously faces an unstable situation in which, more than what is enshrined in the Coalition Treaty, I believe that the mandate-holder will fulfil what she said in her first opening address when she said, "We will protect and strengthen the public sector." And I'm still waiting today, probably for nothing, at least until now I've been waiting for this for nothing, to answer a single question. May the future President of the Government answer me and indicate to me a single country of this world where the economic crisis has been overcome by protecting and strengthening the public sector. The path is really the opposite, all history proves it. Entrepreneurship must be strengthened, everything that constitutes an obstacle to entrepreneurship must be eliminated, the market and competitiveness must be strengthened, human knowledge must be strengthened. This is the path to success and this is not proposed by Dr Ljubica Jelusič, proposed by Roman Jakič, especially in her actions. We all miss each other, and I'm afraid we miss each other for nothing.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko has the word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u128	Thank you so much for saying that. The President of the Government is not responding. Since the seven hours we spent — of which about 50 minutes of the opening act — she has spent so far, it seems to me that two minutes for the answers to the questions raised here by Members. Here you can see what the work of this government will look like, how the answers will be, what communication will be like, what the attitude towards the National Assembly will be. If someone who has taken the lead of the government is not able to answer a few questions from Members in five, six hours, which reminds us of some irregularities, I consider this to be a major drawback. The second is what a colleague of Jeraiev opened and what, procedurally, Mr Jakič tried to answer. You know, we're not interested in a courier in the National Assembly. We wonder if what has been published is the fact that it is true or not true. I don't care who taped your e-mail, but I'm wondering if what's written is true or not. This is true of what is said and of what is written and published on human resources exchanges that are to take place at the Ministry of Defence. What has already been said in the first introductory statement by the President of the Government is probably part of this context when large staff clearances were announced when experts were to be appointed, one person was to be replaced, and others were to come, who were supposed to be named by the Government after not knowing what key. In short, we're in some kind of big conflict here. Unfortunately, I repeat, there are no answers to any questions, but we have been waiting for seven hours.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u129	Thank you very much. It's the President of the Government, mag. Alenka Bratusek. Please be quiet in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u130	Mr. Tanko, there were fewer questions, more charges. I haven't responded to you today, not in the last 14 days. You don't know much about asking questions and making too many accusations, I'm afraid. Now let me finally say a few more words. I am well aware of the hard work ahead of us and how I am aware that today is not the end of the problem. Someone on my right said it looks like today is the end of problems in health, education, culture and elsewhere. Far from it, far from this respectable colleague and colleague. Problems remain and are greater from day to day. There will be work to be done, sleeves to be rolled up and these problems and problems to be solved. Over the past year, we, and especially our colleague and candidate for Minister, Mr Stepišnik, have repeatedly warned you that you are insisting on a path that will not come out of the crisis but will only deepen the crisis. The macroeconomic indicators unfortunately show that we had something else right. They're pinning us down again, unfortunately, even international institutions. The International Monetary Fund wrote down, but today we can read that Slovenia is trapped in a negative spiral. You still remember the words of Mr Stepišnik, who spoke of the whirlpool or the spiral of death. Isn't that something very similar to what the International Monetary Fund wrote today? I'm gonna say it again. Unfortunately, we're still on the right track. Unfortunately, because it could be significantly different in Slovenia if you would listen to us and do something slightly different. And this absolutely needs to be reversed, so we need to start an economy, so we need measures for new jobs, so we need optimism and hope and, above all, we need cooperation. Allow me at the end to thank the Government, which is leaving, for all that it has done for Slovenia, especially for pension reform and labour market reform. As I said before today, we are old enough to know how the world is spinning and young enough to still believe that we can change it for the better, of course. We've got a lot of hard work ahead of us. We've got a lot of problems ahead of us. Even today, I will not promise great results, but I promise you that we will work for the benefit of our people and our country.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u131	Thank you very much. I take it you've all been given the floor by the reported debaters who wanted to. However, since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I'm guessing yes, which is why I'm opening applications for discussion. I propose three minutes round to the debater. Please, Mr. Roman Jakič, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. I thank those debates that have been constructive and that have not again introduced old practices of disqualification and discreditation. My name was mentioned twice today in a context that made me sad. Not sad as a candidate for the Minister of Defence, but sad as a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, as one who had a great deal, is and will not violate human rights and civil liberties in this country. Today I discovered twice that I had been personally violated by my rights. For the first time, the one that was told and published in one of the right-wing newspapers or funded right-wing newspapers, and the other who talks about someone following me and listening to what I'm saying in Ljubljana. The other one's not real. We didn't talk to Joseph Scholcz last night, we saw each other, we waved out the window in Maximarket, but we didn't talk. But nevertheless, the entire speech of one of the SDS members was based on what I was talking about. The other is one who interferes and violates my right to privacy and private communication within this house. That is why, the President, and also to you, although I have used my legal remedies, today I have brought an action before the District Court and demanded that this right, which has been violated, be withdrawn from the Internet. But I call on you to make sure that, in the future, my colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members – I will make sure that they do not follow me and listen to me, or work, I hope that they will protect me. Colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members of Parliament, please protect them from being violated by the right of communication, because we are here to communicate with people and people are sending us such or different letters, from which they cannot do what they wanted – colleague Tankko wanted to convert this very skillfully, to interpret my policy. Roman Jakič did not write what he would do, Roman Jakič said what he would do on the Defence Department when he was questioned before the competent Defence Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u133	Thank you. Before I give my word to the other applicants, I would just like to explain to all visitors present on the balcony today that the house order prohibits video or audio recording or use of phones. Likewise, the rules we have for the work of journalists in the National Assembly make it very clear that close photographing or recording of materials on the benches and tables of Members is not allowed. Thus, we will also follow these rules, which we have already adopted, through our powers of procedure forward and, as you have proposed, protect the work of Members and Members of the National Assembly, so that we can truly carry out our work in a quality manner. But I thank you for this warning, and at the same time I think I have been obliged to give this explanation. The next panellist is Mr Mirko Brulc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u134	Your Honor! Today, the new government has not received much useful guidance. But all I want to say is, you don't have to shed the tears that were foretold. Life is like that — one way or another. But it's not the time for euphoria either. There's a lot of work ahead of the new government, hard work, and I'm sure, and I want this work to go on as low as possible. I am living in the hope that there will be more honesty, more social security in this country, more work for the unemployed, and more and more. Let life in Slovenia be free of fear as well. We, too, have been apprehensive about all human resources changes in the last week and month, and there have been several threats here today that I hope will not come true. I want a new government to succeed, a constructive opposition. We have also supported many of your laws, even when your ministers presented themselves, we supported them, at least some of them, and there is no reason why we should not share this bargain of cooperation tonight. Well, good luck to the new government wishing you were really working for Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u135	Thank you, too. Mrs Tamara Vonta is the next reported debater. He's cancelling the debate. Next after this review, Mrs Tina Komel. He's quitting. The next Mrs. Renata Brunskole. He's quitting. The next Mrs. Maja Dimitrovski. He's cancelling. Matjaž Han gave up. Mrs. Melita Zupevc. She's not here. Mr. Matevž Frangež is giving up. Mr. Josie the Great. He's quitting. Mr. Branko Grimes. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u136	It is very interesting that despite the fact that we published an article from Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung on websites, I also took it on Facebook and where, as far as I know, it did not take any relevant media from the central media in Slovenia, which says a great deal, especially if you take into account the textbook by Professor Dr. Bogomila Ferfile entitled U.S.A. – this is a textbook from the FDV – which has inside one thought which is very relevant. More than what editorial policy is, it says what it says and what they write about, it says what they systematically silence. From this point of view, I must say that it was very sad to see the committee reporting when they were doing hearings, because people probably got the impression that these were not hearings at all, because there were no questions mentioned. Only the answers were given in most media. Interestingly, at the hearing of the previous government, this was quite different. This is one space that will require much more analysis and probably a joint work to meet all the standards. What is at stake today is that this space will report on the functioning of this government, which is likely to be confirmed today. Then, within a year, the results will also be seen, and if you believe it in foreign newspapers, these results will not be very good. It is interesting that even today, the mandate-holder speaks much less rashly, much less predicts big stories of success than was the case in her opening speech. Apparently, it was glue that brought everything together, the collapse of the government so far, when it comes to the implementation of the programme, but now there is something on the paper, how it is with this paper and what will be the difference between words and actions, but we have already seen the difference between the words of the Commissioner and the actual proposal that is before us tonight. As a result, if I start with the question of what the comparison is for the back, then the comparison will also have to be looked at. At that time, it will probably be necessary to look at economic growth, the issue of the required profitability of Slovenian bonds and the question of how and what Slovenia will develop in the future. With this government or with any other government, because I'm not exactly sure that this government will be in this system in a year, if it's going to be.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u137	Thank you. When I read the list of applicants for the debate, I accidentally left mag in third place. Borut Ambrožič and I return to him. But she quits, so she's Dr. Andrej Crnak Neglich's next discusser. Dr. Andreja Black Neglec, would you like a word? He doesn't want to. Mr Jerko Čehovin is next reported. He doesn't want a word. Mr. Matjaž Zanoskar? He doesn't want to. Mrs Leila – they have already been checked out in this review, Mr Jožef Kavtičnik is next reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u138	Thank you very much, Chairman. Your Honor! Today, in the National Assembly, we heard a mandate-holder who presented the ministerial team, who also presented the programme and the specific objectives. These goals are optimistic, they arouse hope and optimism and hope lead to better innovation, creativity and give people motivation for work, and we need this in Slovenia today. On the other hand, we have heard fear again, pessimism and dear colleagues or gentlemen – young sir, I don't know, I don't see it here – as a teacher I know it doesn't lead to creativity, it doesn't lead to better productivity, but even less to the well-being of people, citizens and citizens. You recommend that they be afraid. If I'm afraid of anything, I'm afraid of what happened today. But not by being able to resist or flee from this temple or country, but by fighting what is happening, by people or individuals, and by checking what we are talking about, what we are writing, or what we are saying on the street, or between friends. 20, 30 years ago, when I was walking or on vacation to the then eastern countries, Russia, the Soviet Union, or the Czech Republic, we were afraid to speak out loud and we met people who whispered certain things into their ears because they were afraid to speak in public. I am pleased that this government is no longer capable of ruling this country to establish these relations and this fear among people. That is why I will be so happy to press the button for this government, and I expect the majority in the National Assembly to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u139	Thank you, too. The next debate shall be cancelled. Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u140	Thank you so much for saying that. Much of the remainder of the time is the time that the mandate-holder did not spend on her own answers. She announced an hour, spent five minutes, and in those five minutes, she read some of those slogans that she says every time she comes in front of a payphone and logs in. As far as the debate is concerned, you are very sensitive. As long as Janša's government is criticised, there is no problem, no problem for anyone. You are grateful that her mandate will be terminated in a few minutes. The moment we start talking about the problems of the government that arise with all those personal mortgages that candidates and others bring to the government team, the mandate-holder says not to look back, but forward. It's like we're going to witness privileged cases again when proceedings against some people are under way, not against others. Is this perhaps a forecast of the abolition of law enforcement agencies, the Court of Auditors, the Tax Administration, the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering? These are all institutions in this country looking back and laying the groundwork forward. Given the number of people on this team and the new coalition burdened with various mortgages, I'm not actually surprised at this position of mandate-holder. In fact, I am very concerned that there will be no fight against economic crime during this period. In fact, economic crime, linked to the management of state-owned companies and the management of the banking system, is a key problem at this point and all the problems we have in this country. What I think will be a major problem of this government is actually this European dimension. Prime Minister, the largest government party is not in any European political association, not in the EPP, not in the Socialists, nor in the ALDE – anywhere. Given that, as a rule, or always, meetings of political groups will take place before the meeting of the European Council, this will be a major problem. There will be no information, there will be no lobbying, there will be no discussions, but the Commissioner will have to decide there. I think it'll soon turn out to be a very big problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u141	Thank you, too. Mr Branko Ficko is the next reported debater. He doesn't want to discuss it. Mr Srečko Meh is next in the review. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u142	I wouldn't, Mr. Tanko, but if we were inside earlier, I'd tell you again. I expect that we will all do something for Slovenia and that the SDS will represent Slovenia's interests in the European political space, and I also guarantee that the Social Democrats will do so. Anyone who loves Slovenia and tries to earn their money must do so and I assure you there is room enough for everyone. When you talked about shutting down the investigative and other authorities and hanging them from the mandate holders, it would be good for Janez Janša. It'll do very well. By the way, let's all put in front of our doorstep, and we'll be fine. Another thing is, ladies and gentlemen, a significant difference in this next period will be a significant difference. You know why? Because you will be the opposition.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u143	Thanks for the debate. The next debater is mag. Stanko Stepichnik. He doesn't want to discuss it. After the review, the next Mrs Janja Klasinc is. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u144	Thank you, Mr. President. In these times, it is difficult to say which government can be successful and which is not successful. Political options are different in dealing with problems. It's understandable that we disagree with you. It's understandable that you don't agree with us. There is one difference, however, between us and most Western European countries with developed democracy; if a victory in a Western European country, the right hand fights about concepts like we do, but the population is not afraid. And if the left wins, the population is not afraid again. The population opposes these solutions, one or the other, which do not fit their status according to their ideological, political, religious definition, all of these — these are differences. But what has happened in the last year with us – not only in the last year, but also in the previous term – is very similar to what is happening today in Hungary and what colleagues from the United Kingdom have pointed out at the last visit of our parliamentary colleague Tamara Vonta and colleague Roman Jakič, who were recently in the UK. You know, these trends are questionable. That is why I think that today and the day before the Commissioner presented her programme, that she has repeatedly stressed hope, a new situation, a different view, is not an accident. Those aren't phrases. That's what average Slovenian and average Slovenian want. Not only Slovenians and Slovenians, but all those inhabitants of this country who are either citizens or only work with us temporarily. I think it's time for justice to take place. I'm sure this team is going to do everything in its power to achieve these goals. We may not succeed in everything, no one claims everyone will succeed in everything, but I'm sure we'll do anything for it. And in a year, we'll look into each other's eyes and assess whether we did it or not.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u145	Thank you for the debate, and the next report is mag. Majda Potter. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u146	Thank you for your word. I don't know how to explain such very diametrically contradictory judgments about what is in the agreement of the parties to participate in the government, in the coalition written down. Some claim that this is a list of wishes, while others count the pages that I do not even say the sentence — not the sentence, but the sentence — and their text is too short. Where's the truth now? For me, the fifth point is of exceptional importance among priorities, and one is a sermon itself. But this is the sermon that is of great importance to the functioning of the country, and it speaks of the public sector. If Ivan Janša's government has succeeded, she has succeeded in destroying the public sector. Destroy his professional dignity and turn against him the real sector. If the government of Alenka Bratušek succeeds in restoring dignity to this sector and thus in providing quality public services, it will achieve in my eyes what this government has set itself as a priority. It is not about whether this new government will be able to provide enough money to cover or fill all the gaps. It is simply a matter of whether this government will be able to tell citizens and citizens that a good job, wherever it is, is worth acknowledging. And when that comes back to this country, the atmosphere in this country will be different. We will not meet people who will look at us with hatred, who will look at us in bad spirits because we will not do what is expected of us by politicians and politicians. This is to listen to people, to talk to them, and not to think as one of the colleagues said that the poor minister couldn't do enough because he had to talk to the union. Yes, please, it is not the Minister and it is not the Members and Members who understood the role of politicians and politicians and did not understand that the role of the coalition and opposition in parliamentary democracy is different and that the task of the opposition is to oversee the coalition. However, I hope that you will do this more moderately in past mandates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u147	Thank you, too. Mr Gaspar Gaspar Mišič is the next reported debater. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u148	The Honorable President. So if words were to build a country and words had an impact on economic growth, Slovenia would be one of the richest countries not only in Europe but also in the world. Today, for the first time in the history of the Republic of Slovenia, the government will take over a woman's hand and expect fellow Members and Members of Parliament to say much more encouraging words for courage and congratulations and willingness to help save this country. What has happened in the past, if party interests prevailed over national interests, should no longer be repeated. The country really needs reinforcements, and we should all be better aware of our responsibilities towards the country. They count only actions and not words. They say those who are truly courageous — actions and not words. Like our Italian neighbors say, "Fatti non parole". So it's only work that we can show off. If we are only going to argue and accuse each other and if we are going to experience this again in this term: Your government, our government – see, all previous governments have failed because we did not go in the direction of development, but we have developed Slovenia in the direction of indevelopment. And that is why we all need to get to the bottom of the ashes, especially those who have been eternal politicians and still are today. You have to give it a chance! A new government led by the Magi. Alenka Bratusek, he's got a chance. I also trust her with many Slovenians and Slovenians. Let's give her a chance to show her what she knows, because only if we trust her and give her a chance — and you had her, and you lost her. If you've wasted it, it's your fault and it's your business. You had a program. Someone said the government's program replaces a government that doesn't have a program. Please! You had a 10 plus a written book, very fat. How many of these did you realize? Nothing. You were working in the opposite direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u149	Thank you, too. Nevertheless, it might be possible to draw attention to the fact that there are no replicas at this stage of the debate. However, I would appeal to the debaters to take this into account and to conclude the discussions in a way that would not be necessary to establish that someone has, say, exceeded the content. The fact that we have before us cannot be disputed after some statements is possible through further discussions. The next debate is Mrs Sonja Ramšak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u150	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear Prime Minister of the Government! Once again, I appeal to you to withdraw Mr. Jakić's candidacy as Minister of Defence. Why? You weren't at the hearing where – I'll read why. In your coalition agreement, you have written down some of the values, among them: we will act with patience, we will strive for the highest possible level of culture of political dialogue based on the power of arguments, without personal discrimination and intolerance. These values have been deeply violated by your candidate on the Defence Committee, not only by individuals, but by almost most of those Members and Members, who have been told that he is not actually an expert and that he is ashamed to become Minister of Defence. And I'm saying that again today. Why? Because those of us who were independent veterans of the war for Slovenia were demeaning us, were verbally aggressive, taught us that we did not know who the Minister of Defence was. But, Mr Jakič, we know very well who the Minister of Defence is, that this is not the Minister of the Army, as you have told us, and we are very well aware of his powers. And also because you have shown a great deal of ignorance today, and I am sorry that Mr Breznik, who has asked you some quizzes of questions, has not extended these questions to other issues and would quickly come to the point that you have very little knowledge of the area of defence. Dear colleague and Prime Minister of the Government, I just ask you, some citizens have asked me how many languages you speak and which languages you speak. Thank you very much. But I wish you success.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u151	In view of the direct question raised by the President of the Government, I would like to allow a discussion after the conclusion of all those who have notified themselves to the debate, because, as I said, replicas between the debaters are not allowed, but given that the issue has been very clearly raised, it would also allow the President of the Government to answer the question raised when all those who have been reported to the debate will receive the floor. The next one to be tabled is Mrs Masha Kociper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Your Honor! I've been in this House for over a year, and I thought I'd gotten used to a lot of bad things, but when I listened today to what insults, hatreds and discredits were coming from this side, I was surprised. It's not our fault you failed. We just took after you. That's right. No hatred is necessary, no insult, no underestimation already in progress. Why don't you give us a chance? You say you've been on the scene for 20 years – SDS. Some Members, each time they perform, boast that they are already here for four or five terms. Maybe that's why politics has such a bad reputation in our country and such low respect among people. Do we not hear the calls of people who want politicians to behave differently? If Mr Meh has said, anyone can help to make things better in our country – you too can be the opposition. You didn't make it. Now it's somebody else's turn. Help in such a way that you do not break down, that you do not destroy, that you do not sow hatred, that you do not underestimate, that you do not discredit. And for all of us sitting here, the reputation will improve and everyone will enjoy living in this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u153	Thank you. The next panellist is Mr Jani Möderndorfer. He's quitting. Procedural? Mr. Jerovšek, you have procedural procedures.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u154	Mr President, we are the fifth term in Parliament and we have been flown by Mrs Masha Kociper's observation that it is our fault [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u155	Mr Jerovšek, given that you have applied for a procedural proposal, please state it and then we will find out what we can do with this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u156	I think we should react — not because of us. She has now passed the blame for Parliament's reputation for those who have elected us more than once. This is an insult to the electorate, Mrs. Masha Kociper. I say this first. Second. She was talking about the hatred they expressed. Tell her exactly where she saw hatred.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u157	Excuse me, Mr. Jerovšek, for interfering with [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u158	But if I don't understand the parliamentary debates!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u159	Because I'm interfering with the debate. [[...]] I've warned you before, they can't be replicas.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u160	Please remind colleague Masha Kociper to be at the level of what is happening in European parliaments. Here's a serious debate and let him say what hatred was. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u161	Thank you. These are my warnings that I have given before, because I somehow expected someone to feel hurt after one debate and will not be able to give an answer, are valid for all those who have discussed and I am sure that the last interviewer to be reported at today's meeting, Mr Janez Vasle, will certainly respect this criterion. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u162	Last and last time. Your Honor! When I took office a year ago, our home poet wrote to me, among other things: "Messengers go to Ludmila and empty DZ chair, Vasletov Janez from Domžal, man of character and scarf." Today the same poet sent me: "For a year this chapter lasts, right, the minister's chair has lost, the ambush of my now Lyudmila." I imagined the work of the National Assembly as much as the work of representatives for the good of the people. In fact, in the first discussions I was in Parliament, I prepared a sentence that the condition for admission to the opposition parties was also a course and a test of greed. There were a lot of insults. And, of course, during this year, I have abandoned this opinion, even though the opposition has heard a great deal of insult, underestimation and the like. However, this was significantly less from the position, even because of NSI, which did not use this method. We are witnessing the enthronement of a new government. As you have seen, honey and milk have already begun to drain, and we already feel positive effects. In presenting the new government coalition, I did not see any significant differences in direction from that of the previous government. I haven't heard anything special about new concrete actions. In short, the goals before and now are very similar and I have an increasing impression that the main purpose of this event was to seize power. The new president's offer to go after a year of confidentiality seems a little bit hunting. We know what can be done in one year — we have seen it now. My forecast is this: people will share candy, lower energy prices, electricity, gas and the like, and improve their public image. When you go to get a secret, you'll get it and you'll forget about the early elections, despite the signed what happened. An important sign seems to me that in all areas the requirements for verification of certificates, Master's degree, corruption carried out, after derogations from high functions, and so on. Until I came to this temple of diplomacy, I didn't believe the uncles were in the background. These old forces are getting stronger. Fran Milczynski Ježek said that the stairs push from the top down, that the fish on the head stinks and if I paraphrase a little, our chicken not only smells on the head, but smells whole and the change of head will not save it. On my own behalf, however, I wish to do everything in my best interests for the good of Slovenia. Let me also conclude with the verse of this poet: "It was a nice experience, a tiring experience many times, sometimes lovely. I also tell you all, bravely, nothing is eternal." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u163	Thank you, Mr. Janez Vasle. Given that a very specific question had been raised earlier to the President of the Government, she expressed interest in trying to answer Mrs Sonja Ramšak's question. I give the word "magic." Alenki Brother. You have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Dear Mrs Ramšak, I speak Slovenian, English, Croatian and something small also German. But what's interesting is that you weren't interested in this with your Prime Minister. Maybe it would be interesting to hear what he knows. And the same would apply to your former ministers. In the end, all I'm going to say is that I'm also disappointed with the words that flew mainly from this side today. You had the opportunity, you had one year to show and reverse the trend in Slovenia. You've made him worse. Look at the macroeconomic forecasts. Look at the forecasts of international institutions – unfortunately. All I'm going to say in the end is, give us a chance to show that we're going to do what we set out to do.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u165	Thank you. I see that we have concluded the debate with this. We're moving to the vote. In accordance with Rule 232 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the appointment of ministers and ministers shall be voted on by voting on the list of candidates for ministers and ministers as a whole. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. I put to the vote the following motion for a decision: The National Assembly appoints Dr. Uroš Čufer as Minister of Finance, Mr. Karl Viktor Erjavc as Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr. Tomaž Gantar as Minister of Health, Dr. Uroš Grilc as Minister of Culture, Mr. Igor Maher as Minister of Infrastructure and Space, Mr. Roman Jakič as Minister of Defence, Mrs. Tino Komel as Minister of State without Director of Relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the indigenous Slovenian National Community in neighbouring countries, and between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenians around the world, Dr. Anjo Kopač Mrak as Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Dr. Jernej Pikal as Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr. Senko Plicaniča for Minister of Justice, Mag. Mr Stanka Stepišnik for Minister of Economic Development and Technology, Dr Gregor Virant for Minister of the Interior and Public Administration, mag. Ms Dejan Jedhan as Minister for Agriculture and the Environment. This is the decision we are voting on and I am starting to vote on. [[advertising from the hall]] Excuse me? Anybody want to explain their voice? So, since the will to explain your vote is expressed, I invite you to report if anyone else wants to explain their vote. Mr. Franz Pukšič, you have the floor. [[advertising from the hall]] Just a moment. Let's listen to Mr. Puksic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen! I will not support this government. I'll vote against it. But here's the reason. Today, some have talked about what is a disgrace and a bad example for politics. Dear colleagues and colleagues, certainly not the electorate and voters who give someone a five-time term. The poor example of politics and shame in this country is those Members and Members of Parliament who support someone who has acquired €2.4 million, who has systematically and repeatedly violated the legislation and has received it through work in the city municipality and are burdened with both corruption risks and risks of illegal lobbying. And if this risk of illegal lobbying was also exploited by the future Minister of Defence, along with Klemen Goršet, what and how they would do on intelligence and security services, even though we discussed these services on Friday on the commission and it was a great job, then I am afraid of this authority, I fear the government. What started to happen before you got the tools in your hands. Sorry, it's over. I am afraid that this is the last Slovenian government, and the next one will be set by the European Union, even when workers and workers are closed down even those savings that they are hard to earn.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u167	Mr. Pukšič, how will you vote?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u168	At first, Mr President, I said, if not, look at the magnetogram.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u169	Thank you. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 88 Members and Members present, with 52 votes against 35. [[52 members voted in favour.]] [[Against 35.]] On the basis of the outcome of the vote, I find that ministers and ministers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia are appointed. I invite ministers and ministers to occupy the seats dedicated to the Government in the Chamber. Allow me to begin by expressing sincere congratulations to ministers and ministers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the appointment of their seats in the State Assembly. We are taking the oath, and I ask the newly appointed ministers and ministers to swear before the National Assembly in accordance with Article 113 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Dr. Uroš Chufer, Minister of Finance, will be the first to swear. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u170	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u171	The following will be sworn by Mr Karl Viktor Erjavec, Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u172	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u173	The following will be sworn by Mr Tomaž Gantar, Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u174	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u175	The next one will be sworn in by Dr. Uroš Grilc, Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u176	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u177	The following will be sworn by Mr Igor Maher, Minister for Infrastructure and Space.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u178	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u179	The following will be sworn by Mr Roman Jakič, Minister of Defence.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u180	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u181	The following will be sworn by Mrs Tina Komel, Minister without a department for Relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the indigenous Slovenian National Community in neighbouring countries and between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenia around the world.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u182	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u183	The following will be sworn by Dr Anja Kopač Mrak, Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u184	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u185	The following will be sworn by Dr Jernej Pikalo, Minister of Education, Science and Sport.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u186	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u187	The next one will be sworn by Dr. Senko Pličanič, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u188	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u189	The next one will be sworn in by the mag. Stanko Stepišnik, Minister for Economic Development and Technology.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u190	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u191	The following will be sworn by Dr. Gregor Virant, Minister of the Interior and Public Administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u192	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u193	The next one will be sworn in by the mag. Dejan Židan, Minister for Agriculture and the Environment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u194	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-20-SDZ6-Izredna-31.ana.u195	Following the oaths made, we continue the meeting and because Member Tina Komel and Members of the Parliament are Roman Jakič, mag. Stanko Stepišnik, Dr. Gregor Virant and Mag. In accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members, I shall immediately inform the State Election Commission and ask it to communicate to the National Assembly which candidates will replace that Member and Members in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members. On the basis of a notification from the National Election Commission, the Mandate-Electorial Commission will prepare a report and propose approval of the mandates to the National Assembly and report on its findings to the assembly. The Member and Members appointed as Ministers and Ministers are temporarily unable to perform their duties as Members of the Parliament on the basis of Articles 200, 201 and 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are also informed of the following: Members and Members who are temporarily unable to carry out their duties as Members of the Parliament have been found to have ceased their duties in the Government, Mrs Tina Komel as Vice-President of the Commission for Relations with Slovenians in Exchange and in the World, Mr Roman Jakič as Chairman of the Committee on European Union Affairs, mag. Mr Stanko Stepišnik as Vice-President of the Committee on the Economy, Dr Gregor Virant as President of the Constitutional Commission and Maj. The President of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment. Their function shall cease from the date of the meeting of the National Assembly. With the pledge of a new government, the dissolved Prime Minister of the Government, together with his ministers and the Minister, ceases to carry out current business today. Pursuant to Article 17, paragraph 5, of the Law on State Administration, from the date of the termination of the functions of the Minister, the functions of the Secretary of State shall also cease. On the basis of Article 14 of the Law on Members, the National Assembly shall determine. First, because Mr Ivan Janez Janša has stopped performing the current work of the President of the Government and because he is a mag. Radovan Žerjav, mag. Andrej Vizjak, Dr. Vinko Gorenak, Mr. Zvonko Černač, Mrs. Ljudmila Novak and Mr. Franz Bogovic stopped carrying out the current affairs of the minister or ministers, mag. Andre Shirtz and Mag. However, Mark Pogačnik has ceased to serve as State secretaries today in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members and is once again acting as Members. Secondly, in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members, as of today, they cease to serve as Members and Members of Parliament, Mr Robert Hrovat, Mrs Jasmina Opec, mag. Damjana Petavar Dobovšek, Mr Ivan Pišek, Mrs Patricia Šulin, Mr Janez Vasle and Mr Roman Žveglic, who served as Members and Members instead of Mr Ivan Janez Janša, mag. Merry Christmas, mag. Mr Andrej Visiak, Dr Vinko Gorenak, Mr Zvonk Černač, Mrs Ljudmila Novak and Mr Franz Bogovic at a time when they served as Prime Minister of the Government, Minister and Ministers, and Mr Saša Ciglar and Mr Rado Likar, who served as Members, mag. Andrey Shirtzl and Mag. Mark Pogačnik at the time they served as secretaries of state. On the basis of Articles 200, 201 and 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly shall be informed of the following decision. It is to be noted that Members and Members who have ceased to serve as Members and Members of Parliament today have ceased to serve as Vice-President of the Committee on the Interior, Mrs Patricia Šulin as President of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, Mr Janez Vaslet as Vice-President of the Committee on Health, Mr Roman Žveglič as Vice-President of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment, and Mr Rad Likar as Vice-President of the Committee on European Union Affairs. Their function shall cease from the date of the meeting of the National Assembly. Mr. Robert Croat, Mrs. Jasmine Opec, mag. Damjani Petavar Dobovšek, Mr Ivan Pišk, Mrs Patrija Šulin, Mr Janez Vaslet, Mr Roman Žveglič, Mr Saša Ciglar and Mr Rad Likar thank you for the work done in the National Assembly. / applause/ Allow me to introduce you to the following facts. Because Mr. Ivan Janez Janša and Mag. Today, Radovan Žerjav made a written declaration to resign from the duties of Members of the National Assembly, to be terminated by Members of the Parliament in accordance with the third paragraph of Article 202 of the Rules of Procedure and the 6th indent of the first paragraph and the second paragraph of Article 9 of the Law on Members by 20. 3. 2013 On this basis, I will ask the National Election Commission to inform the National Assembly, which candidates or candidates will become Members or Members of Parliament in accordance with Article 17 of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly for the remainder of the term of office instead of members of Mr Ivan Janez Janša and Mag. Mr Žereva, whose term of office is terminated. On the basis of a notification from the National Election Commission, the Mandate-Electorial Commission will prepare a report and propose approval of the mandate of Members or Members for the remainder of the term of office. Following these urgent notices and conclusions, the newly appointed ministers and ministers are invited to the courtyard of the Grand Chamber on an official photo basis. I hereby conclude this agenda item and conclude the 31st meeting of the National Assembly.
