ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! Starting the 20th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mrs Irena Tavčar, mag. Melita Zupevc, mag. Katarina Hočevar, Mr Matevž Frangež, Mr Marijan Pojbič, Mr Jakob Preseknik, Mr Ivan Simčič from 17:00 on, Mr Zvonko Černač, Mr Branko Grims, mag. Matthew Tonin by 12 noon, Mr Joseph Horvat from 13.30 p.m. and Mr Matjaž Han from 3 p.m. I welcome everyone here. We're moving to 3. At the end of the day, that is to say the bill on amendments and additions to the law on infringements after the termination of the procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. To further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Ms Tina Brecelj, State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u2	Dear President, distinguished Members of Parliament, a good greeting to all! We have prepared a proposal to amend the Law on Offences before you at the Ministry of Justice in the first place to take account of the proposal of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. In fact, the Supreme Court points out that the current regime, which of 1. 1. 2014 provides for the transfer of jurisdiction to the Celje High Court of Justice for the decision of criminal cases. On the basis of the findings of all four higher courts and judicial statistics – I would like to tell you that the number of outstanding criminal cases in the higher courts fell by 43 per cent from the end of 2009 to the end of 2011, so we note a significant reduction in outstanding cases – and thus this situation has been established, the Court finds that the main reason for determining the exclusive competence of the High Court in Celje to decide in the infringement proceedings has fallen. As the transfer of exclusive jurisdiction to the High Court of Celje, which, as I have already mentioned, provides for the applicable provisions of the Offences Act, is to enter into force with effect from 1. 1. 2014, it is essential that the amendment proposed today in front of you be adopted this year. At the same time, the proposed amendment of the Law on Offences in accordance with the decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to prosecute the grey economy as one of our priorities introduces the possibility that, by law for an individual for labour and employment offences, a double penalty is fixed in black. So, this is an important substantive novelty that the novelty brings. I would also like to say that with the amendment of the Law on Offences, we are aligning with the proposals of the Law on Political Parties and the Law on Election and Referendum Campaign, as well as with the proposal of the New Energy Law, which is under consideration in the National Assembly. The proposal for the amendment of the Law on Offences further adds the legal basis for viewing personal data in the common criminal record through electronic access using a qualified digital certificate. Thus, it is new that citizens will also be provided with this kind of insight into the situation of traffic criminal points. Finally, I would like to say that, taking into account the findings in practice, we have also included in the paper some minor changes and adjustments which have been detected by criminal and judicial authorities as necessary and useful to enable a more efficient procedure in criminal matters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u3	Thank you, too. The draft law was treated by the Justice Committee as a parent working body. I give the floor to Ms Jasmine Opec, Vice-President of the Committee, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, hello, all of you! At its 17th session, on 28 November 2013, the Committee on Justice considered the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Offences submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government and published on the website of the National Assembly in the Rapporteur of 14 October 2013. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at its 68th session. Ten. 2013 decided that the proposal for a law should be examined in a simplified procedure. The Committee was informed in advance of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the Council of Justice, the Commission of the State Council for State Regulations, the Municipality of Ljubljana and the Community letter of the municipalities of Slovenia. The representative of the applicant, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Tina Brecelj, stated in a supplementary explanation of the articles that the draft law follows the proposal of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia regarding the envisaged transfer of jurisdiction to decide in the second-degree infringement proceedings and the decision on jurisdiction between district courts exclusively to the High Court of Celje, which is to enter into force with effect from 1. 1. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This transfer will not be carried out as there are no reasons for the planned centralisation, but there will be no additional financial implications for the state budget. The proposed amendment aligns the law with the already adopted amendments to the Law on Political Parties and the Law on Election and Referendum Campaign and the Energy Law proposal. With a view to persecuting the grey economy, the possibility is introduced for individuals to be covered by the Act for Offences in the Field of Work and Employment to be blacked out by twice as much fine as is generally envisaged. On the proposal of criminal and judicial authorities, however, minor changes and additions are proposed, which are necessary because of the problems encountered in practice. In her presentation of the written opinion of the National Council of State, State Council representative Bojana Potočan stressed that the Commission supports the bill and at the same time points out that the continuous partial amendments to the Act are not in the interests of its clarity, transparency and certainty, and above all legal certainty. The representative of the State Attorney's Office, High Prosecutor Hinko Jenul, said that the solutions proposed were necessary and therefore supported. In the debate, the members of the committee supported the draft law and also agreed with the proposed deletion of Article 5 and the maintenance of the 30-day timetable for the initiation of the infringement procedure, which was established by technical means and the offender was not aware of the infringement. They considered that this deadline was appropriate, since the punishment must be fair and educational and act preventively. The representative of the State Attorney's Office, however, proposed a change in the direction that the law clearly stated that in such a case the offences found in road transport were offences. The Committee then adopted amendments to the NSI Group, the SDS Group of Members and the PS, SD and DeSUS groups of Members. The Committee did not adopt the amendments of the NSI Group to Article 3 and the SDS Group Article 4. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law in which the amendments adopted are incorporated is prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u5	Thank you, too. Following is a presentation of the position of the members of the groups. Mr Aljoša Jerič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! A proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Offences that we are dealing with is needed for several reasons. On a proposal from the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, the regime which provides for the transfer of jurisdiction to the High Court in Celje for the decision of second-degree infringement proceedings and for the decision of disputes of jurisdiction between district courts is amended and is to enter into force with effect from 1. 1. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. As has already been said on the parental committee, none of the competent courts now have any spatial or human resources or any other related problems. As a result, there is no need for such a transfer to take place. The work of the courts is getting better, as is evident from the reports and statistics, so the number of unsolved criminal cases is significantly decreasing by up to 43% between 2009 and 2011. Therefore, there are no reasons on the part of the Court of Justice to justify such centralisation of the decision. Next. Given that it has been repeatedly stressed that one of the priorities of the government, Alenka Bratušek, is the fight against the grey economy, it clearly introduces the possibility for an individual to be set twice as much fine as is generally envisaged in case of an offence in the field of work and employment. Of course, only this provision will not reduce the scope of work to a black and gray economy, but it is one of the stones in the mosaic of all measures that will act preventively. It is also necessary to comply with the amendments of the Law on Political Parties and the Law on Election and Referendum Campaign and the Energy Act, which we have adopted in recent weeks. In order to harmonise the Energy Act with the two directives of the European Union, it is also provided for the possibility of imposing a fine of 10 per cent of the annual traffic of the offender. In addition to this, the amendment also removes some other provisions which have proved to be flawed through implementation. In Positive Slovenia, we will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u7	Thank you, too. Dr Vinko Gorenak will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u8	Thank you very much. The law that we are dealing with was for us only delicate in one point, which we have also amended. The amendment we tabled was also adopted. Now I see that the coalition has slightly supported this amendment. What's this all about? It is simply that traffic offences identified by technical means and citizens are not in fact aware of them are subject to a one-month period for initiating the whole procedure, i.e. the payment of the penalty. This provision was introduced into the law years ago, especially when we were able to find that just before the Ljubljana local elections, it was possible for a year not to issue a payment order, which means that it could be an individual – and this was also physically happening, in particular at the zoo – who drives there for a year, is recorded, recorded and billed and ultimately received after the Ljubljana elections for 30,000 euros. That is why we changed the law and said that it was necessary to marry — and we put it into law — a provision where we determined that the one - month period for initiating such procedures was. It was also our only condition for us to support this marriage. I find that the coalition amendment that was tabled follows this. If the coalition supports this amendment, i.e. its own, is expected to do so, we will support both the amendment and the law, otherwise of course not. I count that the amendment will be supported and that we will be able to uphold the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u9	Thank you, too. Mr Mirko Brulc will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u10	Your Honor! The position of the Group of Social Democrats would first point out that the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Offences is remedying in practice the perceived shortcomings and uncertainties of the current text of this Act. This seems important to me because in the past we have already drawn attention to frequent and obviously not a sufficiently well-coordinated solution. Finally, we pointed out this this spring and, as we now see, we were right, because the novel introduced a different way of determining the amount of the court fee. In practice, this novelty in the transitional provisions has led to doubts as to which authority is responsible for making the payment request. By considering the novel, this doubt is eliminated and better regulated, at least following the applicant's assurances, in the new article 200a, while a new payment method will be established in the new article 200b. An appeal or universal payment order is envisaged both for the payment of the fine and for the costs of this procedure, which may facilitate the settlement of debts, the amount of the infringements and the recording of the offences to the authorities. We agree with the Social Democrats that the perceived errors must be corrected as soon as possible, but it is important to be careful that the amendments to the law, which address perceived shortcomings or uncertainties in practice, do not reintroduce weak and unclear solutions to other articles. We also believe that in court or in a particular case in the area of offences, it is necessary to make it possible for the criminal authorities to simplify and economically operate, but within borders that will not go to the detriment of the State, the local community, on the one hand, and on the other hand, to the detriment of the offenders, if I say so. In this amendment under consideration, I also take into account the proposal of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia of 29 January 2013 on the transfer of jurisdiction to the High Court of Celje for decision in the second-degree infringement proceedings and for the decision on jurisdiction disputes between the District Courts, so that it has already been established for these transfers in the new ZGD-1G in 2011, and would have been implemented by 1. 1. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In its explanation, the Supreme Court stated the reasons why all higher courts in the State should remain competent in the cases already mentioned. In view of the fact that the Supreme Court has already made these comments by the end of January, we believe that this could be settled earlier. With regard to the warnings of a solution in Article 5 of the amendment under consideration, let me say that the Social Democrats will support the amendment to that Article. In the light of the debate and the warnings on the home working body, we agree that the infringement proceedings against road safety identified by technical means and the perpetrator of the infringement have not been brought to light in time cannot be initiated if more than 30 days have elapsed since the date of service of the offence. The proposed amendment to the Law on Offences will be supported, of course, in the hope that this novel will not lead to new shortcomings and uncertainties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u11	Thank you, too. Mr Richard Braniselj will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National List.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Act on Offences that we are talking about today – I would not repeat myself, I think the Secretary of State has already explained everything that this novel brings and in the National Gazette we will support this novel because it brings good solutions, although we are not inclined to see such legislation, the system legislation, which is the law on offences, change too often. But, as we say, today’s changes are necessary, necessary and justified, so we will also support them. I'd use my time for something else. Slovenia is becoming an inspection country. In Slovenia there are 800 laws, adopted and amended 100 per year, of which there are 300 offences and more than 10,000 offences. Ten thousand misdemeanors imposing certain tasks on state institutions and ten thousand offences imposing certain conduct on citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. And that's a lot of effort. We have 30 different inspections in this country, each with its own work circle, that take care of these 10,000 misdemeanors. In 2012, over half a million inspections were carried out, and we share this with the number of inhabitants, and we will see how many of these inspections we receive. Eighty-five thousand measures, with thousands of 400 and several inspectors in this country carrying out an average of 355 inspections and carrying out 59 measures per year. If we share this, then we find that one inspector says one measure in the course of the week. Service inspections in the Law on Offences and Other Laws also have the possibility of imposing certain foreign sanctions under the Law on Offences. They shall have the opportunity to declare the confiscation of items, to exclude from the procurement procedure in certain cases and to take away the property benefit. I have not observed the case of the inspection services using these measures, but we are obviously only staying on the subject of some fines. The large reserves remain when these measures, which the law provides for, are not used to take away the items by which the offences have been committed and to take away the proceeds of the offence. If we look at another analysis that confirms this thesis. The report on the implementation of the 2013 budget of the Republic of Slovenia, January-June and so on, shows that income from income income in the first half of 2013, according to the first half of 2012, decreased by 6.73%. This is said to be a reflection of the crisis – we are collecting 7% less income. The corporate income tax is virtually gone – a reflection of the crisis. In this particular period, 77% has been reduced; 77% are taxed less than a year before, and we know that we have been in the crisis for 3 to 4 years. From VAT, 5,8 % less, from excise duty, 3,8 % less. On the other hand, during the same period, the income generated by fines and other fines increased by 10%. An anomaly! In fact, from this I can say that Slovenia is becoming an over-inspection country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u13	Thank you, too. Ms Jasmina Opec will present the views of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, again. The draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Offences will be supported by the Slovenian People's Party for three reasons. First time. The Law on Offences contains amendments and additions proposed by criminal and judicial authorities in terms of simplifying the operations of criminal authorities, increasing the cost-effectiveness of procedures, speeding up the completion of procedures and consequently reducing backlogs, simplifying certain procedures, eliminating certain uncertainties or shortcomings of the law in force. Thus, at least in the minimum form of this novelty in the area of criminal law, it is also interfering with one of the biggest causes of the problems facing our country in the peremptory and bureaucraticity of all areas. It often seems that the multitude of letters and words in individual laws and other acts is intended only for a higher fee for those who write these regulations, or for those who later explain their meaning. However, citizens and those who implement these regulations have a lot of problems and ambiguities, and often there is a transfer of responsibility from one authority to the other. The reduction of red tape will mean that the criminal authorities will be more concerned with the content of their work than with the fulfilment of the forms and the determination of which authority is responsible, with the actual care of maintaining order in the relevant areas. Another time. The new law contains a provision following the proposal of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, which provides that the transfer of jurisdiction to the Supreme Court in Celje is not to be transferred to the High Court, but to remain in force when all the higher courts in the country are responsible for these matters. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are pleased to see this coalition move, as it has shown that it can and can, on the basis of the arguments of the profession, take measures which means decentralisation of the country. I hope that this coalition will continue to do so in all other areas where the profession cites the negative effects of centralisation measures. Third time. Since an amendment has been adopted on the Committee, which retains a 30-day period for the initiation of proceedings in an offence which has been established by technical means and has not been made aware of the infringement. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are constantly stressing that the penalty should never be intended solely and solely for budgeting, but that the educational and preventive function of punishment must be placed at the forefront of the sentence, and these two are the most likely to come to terms if the sentence is pronounced as soon as possible after the offence has been committed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u15	Thank you, too. Marjana Kotnik Popotat will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u16	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Honourable Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, Mrs Tina Brecelj, and both co-workers! This time, the Law on Offences brings only a few minor changes, which does not mean that they are not substantively important. First of all, we will save the state budget the emergence of additional financial consequences which would otherwise arise from 1 January next year due to the planned transfer of jurisdiction to the Higher Court of Justice in Celje. The amendment of the law is also necessary in order to comply with the amendment of the Law on Political Parties and the Law on Election and Referendum Campaign, as well as with the new Energy Act. Thus, in relation to this law and in accordance with the European legal order, the Law on Offences, as a system law, lays down a fine of 10% per year for infringements in the field of internal market rules with electricity or natural gas. In the DeSUS Group, we very much welcome the initiative of the Ministry of Labour on the basis of which two changes are made in this amendment to the Law on Offences. Changes in the amount of the fine are proposed, which is a condition for the imposition of a resilient prison in the event of non-payment. Since it also provides for the possibility of replacing the payment of a fine by performing tasks in the general social interest or for the benefit of a self-government local community, the high costs caused by the realization of this socially beneficial work increase the threshold when it is possible to replace the payment of the fine by doing this work. The second initiative of the Ministry of Labour is linked to measures in the field of prevention of the grey economy and offers the possibility for an individual to be subject to double the fine provided for in general terms for labour and employment offences. In the DeSUS Group, we also agree with the maintenance of a 30-day deadline for the initiation of a road safety infringement procedure, which has been identified by technical means and the violator has not been informed, as proposed by the proposed amendment to the coalition. We are also not sure that the deadline must be maintained and that it is appropriate. We also support all other minor amendments to the law, which are proposed due to problems in everyday practice in the implementation of this law and have been pointed out by both criminal and judicial authorities. The Law on Offences therefore has the support of Members and Members of the DeSUS Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u17	Thank you, too. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Thank you very much, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, distinguished Madam Secretary of State with colleagues! This time, the eighth amendment of the Law on Offences is intended to remedy some of the shortcomings that have been identified in the implementation of the law itself and to bring it into line with other laws or laws that have been adopted. Even though we understand the intention and desire of the proposer of this law to improve the legislation and the more effective work of the criminal authorities, we stress that too often the amendment of the law is more difficult than it facilitates the implementation of this law. Christian Democrats note that the Law on Offences is a system law and it would be justified to intervene only if there are valid and substantive reasons for doing so. This is our key message. With regard to the content of the proposed amendments to the Law on Offences, we have pointed out that the 30-day limitation period for offences is inadequate, where the actual situation is determined by technical means and the offender has not been informed of the infringement. To this end, we have tabled an amendment to the home labour body adopted by the Committee on Justice. This 30-day limitation period for the initiation of proceedings is appropriate as, at least in most cases, the actual state of the offence when issuing the payment order or the decision on the offence is not further established and the offender is afforded effective defence. For within one month, the offender may still obtain and submit to the criminal authority appropriate evidence for his or her benefit. The up-to-date work of the criminal authorities in dealing with offences in a rapid procedure shall be ensured. In the interest of the State, it must be swift decision-making in simpler criminal proceedings in order to achieve the aims of punishment in terms of general and special prevention. The bill also proposes an increase in the minimum amount of the fine imposed for the possibility of replacing the fine with work in general or the benefit of the self-government local community from the previous 120 to 300 euros. This solution does not seem appropriate to us in view of the large proportion of fines that have been given in the lower amounts, i.e. up to EUR 300. For example, students, students, unemployed persons, pensioners, or their incomes are so low that the compulsory recovery of the fine will not be successful, even if the fine is relatively low. As a result, a large proportion of the fines imposed but inexhaustible will occur, which will tell potential non-income offenders or low-income offenders that most of the offences are no longer subject to sanctions. In particular, given the fact that up to €300 fines have been fined, it will also not be possible to impose a resilient prison. We are convinced that the possibility of replacing the payment of the fine by work with the general benefit or benefit of the self-government local community must be put in such a way as to achieve the general preventive purpose of punishment in all, I stress, in all criminal proceedings. The current €120 limit of fines imposed ensures effective sanctioning of all perpetrators of offences, which has also been confirmed in the implementation of the law so far and is therefore pointless to change. In New Slovenia, we believe that the new solution to this issue is not good and that is why we do not support it. Members of the New Slovenia Group therefore believe that the amendment of this law is unnecessary. Nor do the solutions it brings encourage greater compliance with the rules. For these reasons, we will not support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Offences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u19	Thank you, too. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendment tabled on 17 December 2013. I am putting to the debate Article 5 and the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. In accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, the amendment will be decided today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 9th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. At the end of the day, that is to say the bill on amendments and amendments to the wine law after a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the bill, I could give the floor to a representative or a representative of the Government, and I do not see anyone coming to the Chamber right now, so we are moving on to the report of the committee. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Zvonk Lah, Vice-President of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u20	Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment considered the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Wine Act as its parent working body at its 33rd urgent session, 28. 11. 2013 The Committee took note of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which made a concrete comment on the draft law on Articles 3 and 16 and were taken into account in the amendments of the coalition groups to the articles. The Committee has also received the opinion of the Commission of the State Council on Agriculture, Forestry and Food, which has supported and has no comments on the proposal for a law. The members of the Committee also took note of the comments made by the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia, which proposes that guest establishments should continue to place on the market wine which is not originally loaded, since the restriction on the placing on the market of wine which is not originally loaded would, in their view, increase the purchase prices of the guest plants and, as a consequence, encourage wine for end-users. The Committee did not adopt this proposal in its amendment. The representatives of the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber, the Wine Society of Slovenia and the Association of Family Winegrowers - Slovenian Winegrowers - also participated in the preparation of the amendment of the law presented their position in the draft law. They expressed the belief that the solutions proposed represent the only right path and the first step towards bridging the grey economy, which, according to some estimates, has reached at least 50%. While the Committee members supported the objectives and objectives of the proposed novel in the debate, they also drew attention to some unclear solutions. They thus wanted to explain to the government whether the ban on filling or selling unboiled wine in catering establishments would exempt musts or how it could be marketed in the future. The representative of the Government ensured that the proposal for a law does not limit the sale of unboiled wine on farms. With regard to the ban on the pouring of unboiled wine in the inn, she stressed in particular that wine which flows in properly marked inox containers via wine-melting devices is considered as bottled wine and can continue to flow in such a way in the inn. Therefore, compulsory bottle only applies to wine, but not to must. However, the most debates were devoted to the provisions of Articles 13 and 14 of the law governing the amount of penalties for offences. The majority of the members of the Committee considered that the penalties provided for were substantially too high, especially for smaller vineyards or for those natural persons who process only a few hundred vines and are disproportionate in terms of the type of offence. In this regard, they pointed out that the State's interest must be state-of-the-art, not the destruction of small vineyards, which are mainly promoters of Slovenian cultural landscape, but not important competition for large winemakers. The debate was also about the amendment to Article 13 tabled by the SDS Group, which prevents the punishment of those who still have a sown homeland. In this regard, it is noted that in some EU countries, the authorisation or even the production of organic wine is increasingly sought. We have also warned the representatives of the Government that in practice there will be a situation in which an inspector will punish someone in accordance with our legislation, which would be contrary to the European regulation and which the inspector may not be familiar with at all. The question is also raised why only certain provisions are aligned with European legislation and not all of them. In order to resolve the issue of the level of penalties, the Committee adopted amendments to Articles 13 and 14, which retain the text of Article 56 in force, by reducing the penalties on the proposal of the Government by half for natural persons from EUR 325 to EUR 3 000 250 and for legal persons from EUR 2 000 800 to EUR 28 000. The amendment of the Committee to Article 13 shall also include the content of the above-mentioned amendment of the PS SDS to this Article. The Committee has identified itself to all the amendments tabled and adopted amendments to Articles 3, 12 and 16, but has not adopted the amendments of the SDS Group to Articles 5, 13 and 14. The Committee has not identified certain amendments, either because they have been withdrawn or have become irrelevant. The Committee also voted on all articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation is prepared and the amendments adopted are included. The amended bill is an integral part of the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u21	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Zvonko Lah will be able to get another word in order to present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u22	Dear colleagues and colleagues! The amendment of the Wine Act allows certain procedures to be made order in the area of trade, sales of wine. This is that in inn restaurants it is prohibited to pour unboiled wine and allows wine inspectors to control also in inn restaurants, which wine is sold. We support this in the Slovenian Democratic Party Group, although the ban on pouring unboiled wine in our localities alone in Slovenia is not prohibited by neighbouring wine-growing countries. In our view, this means bad for smaller vineyards, wine growers who have small market surpluses, because this causes them considerable costs in preparing wine for the market for smaller quantities. When smaller wine growers are forced to also bottle wine to sell it, the price of wine will increase. And, of course, the price will also increase for large vineyards, who will then reach higher prices on the market, although small vineyards are not competition for larger vineyards. In addition, we wonder whether many small vineyards will leave vineyards – in addition to increasing costs here, other legislation, such as cadastral income, which will increase, as well as property taxes, on the buildings they have built, will leave this activity to a wide range of vine growers. Small vineyards, as we know, are a large number of cultural landscapes, unlike neighbouring countries, and this is a way of life for someone else to have a small vineyard and a garden. These people who built it there in the 1970s, the 1980s, are mostly elderly, and the younger ones have no interest, and if they have even greater costs, such as contributions, taxes, and will not be able to sell their wine, what happened in Macedonia can happen to us to start growing up with a lovemaking vineyard. The vines are already threatened by a golden reed, which is already a major problem, and this American cartilage that bears this disease, especially in abandoned vineyards, will be propagated. We know that cousins must also be treated with pesticides twice a year to destroy this carrier of golden cane. This will also be a major risk for large wine growers, and I do not think this measure is the best. We have also had two amendments, which are somehow summarized in the amendments of coalition parliamentary groups, that is, not penalising those who still have a sown homeland and not punishing those who plant vines outside the wine-growing area. Otherwise, they must not sell it for sale, but they can also process and produce wine for their own purposes. Our amendment, which we have here again, substantially reduces fines, which are already reduced by the Government's proposal, but we believe that fines are still too high for small individuals to make order, but not by intimidation of various punishments. The fines are significantly higher than they should be because penalties must be proportionate and dissuasive. I think that deterrence would be significantly lower than they are, but they are certainly disproportionate to the offences set out in Articles 13 and 14. That is why we believe in the parliamentary group that the law should be radically changed and seen as we know it in Slovenia. Wine is supposed to be too small in Slovenia, so such intimidation and restraint makes no sense, but order must be made.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u23	Thank you. Mr Mirko Brulc will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u24	All in attendance, all in attendance! In the Group of Social Democrats, we will support the amendment of the Wine Act. The law that we have before us today covers three problems that may cause quality to decline in the sale of wine. Firstly, it enhances the powers of wine inspection and gives it the power to control the traffic of wine in guest establishments; limits the flow of unbleached wine in guest establishments; and thirdly, it sets out how to calculate the crop of a certain year for the entire territory of Slovenia in order to facilitate monitoring of the situation in activities and to create agricultural policy measures. In particular, we are pleased that the law is aligned with all stakeholders, with the Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber, with the Wine Society of Slovenia, with the Association of Family Winegrowers – Winemakers of Slovenia, Vinisa and others. This is a signal that there are certain irregularities on the market both in production and in particular in sales, particularly as regards the quality of wine. The adoption of the law will win all: winemakers, because the law will protect them from unfair competition, consumers who will be able to drink better wine, and finally a country that will pick up its share of cakes in the spirit of combating the grey economy. In Slovenia we have three wine-growing countries and nine environments. In the register of growers and wines are recorded good 16 thousand hectares of vineyards, of which the crop is regularly registered with only 13,000 four hectares of vineyards. A register of grape growers includes 28 thousand grape growers, and almost all are wine growers. There are almost a thousand 800 producers registered for bottles, of which 16 are larger, say more than 500 thousand litres a year. The assessment of production in the Republic of Slovenia is between 80 million and 100 million litres of wine, with about 40 % for self-sustainment and this production is not registered. Production according to quality classes is: 9% is of superior wines, 45% is of quality wine and 37% of country wine. With regard to the colour of wine, the ratio is approximately: 27% is on the side of red wines, 63 on the side of white wines and 10% are foam and rose wines. In the Group of Social Democrats, we welcome and support the solution to the law, especially since this law further enhances the quality of wine, which is already at a high level in Slovenia. We may also contribute with higher quality wines to a better wine culture and also to increasing tourism activities in this segment. However, I would like to point out that in any case, Slovenia must also block imports of inquality table wines through fiscal policy measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u25	Thank you. Mag. Katarina Hočevar will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u26	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted! We will also support the new Wine Act in the National Gazette because it is supported by a number of winegrower associations. As we were able to see on the committee, representatives of the Association of Family Winegrowers – Slovenian Winegrowers Association, Vinis Association, Association of Vinegrowers and Wine Society, representing companies and large cellars, participated in the working group in the preparation of the solutions. The basic principles of the law are thus consumer protection on the one hand and protection of grape and wine growers on the other. The main solutions to the proposal can be narrowed down to the following points: limiting unfair competition to registered wine production, increasing control and simplifying the penal procedure, protecting the consumer from misleading the origin and quality of wine. The amendment of the law limits the filling of unboiled wine in guest establishments. It must be said, however, that most of the wine offered by the restaurant as an open wine is poured from the inox containers through the filling or so-called barcomaths. Thus, wine marked in the appropriate inox containers shall be considered as bottled wine and the proposal therefore does not restrict such a method of pouring wine in the inn. In order to increase the share of the application for wine production and the restriction of unfair competition, the proposal gives the wine inspection, in addition to the existing powers, the power to control the traffic in wine in guest establishments. It limits the pouring of unboiled wine, simplifies the process of punishment and also determines the way in which the harvest of a particular year is calculated for the entire territory of Slovenia. The representative of the Association of Family Winegrowers - Winegrowers of Slovenia concluded his debate on the committee when we discussed the amendment of the Wine Law: "By confirming the novel, help us to make order in our own kind." In the Citizens' List, we will follow their initiative. We also announce support for the coalition amendments to Articles 13 and 14, which provide for more transparent penalties for offenders. We are aware, however, that the law is not a miraculous remedy for gardeners and that it will not eliminate all the problems they face. We therefore call on the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment to shake the methodology for calculating cadastral income with all due care. The 14 times higher cadastral income, however, will not be able to pay because not the euro is growing on the vine, but only grapes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u27	Thank you, too. Mr Franz Bogovic will present the position of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u28	Good afternoon, distinguished president, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Wine Act; a law that, in some way, as already mentioned in the positions of colleagues from other parliamentary groups, attempts to resolve the anomalies that occur in the wine market in the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, we are also pleased in the Slovenian People's Party that sufficient wisdom has been found in adopting or proposing this law and took enough time to meet with different opinions. As we can see, as far as the regulatory areas of wine pouring, inspection are concerned, there is a common point at which it is estimated that a step forward can be taken. As has already been pointed out, when adopting this legislation, we must all be aware that the area of wine-growing, wine-growing industry, which is also a major test in Slovenia. As is the case with other industries, new data are quite surprising to expect future shortages of wine, as is expected in other agricultural products or crops, and that the trend in rural areas, leaving mainly small vineyard areas on steep slopes, is a major problem that this is a problem both on one side of the landscape and on the other hand the problem, as has already been said, of attacking new diseases, of spreading diseases to those vineyards that are processed. On the other hand, we are particularly threatened by the cultivation of these surfaces. Usually, some other tenants are not expected to be present for these areas unless, in the immediate neighbourhood, there is a winegrower who is the main activity on the farm and who expects to grow production and benefit from it in the coming years. However, unlike what agricultural, beef production is the decision to set up a new plant, a new vineyard is significantly heavier and significantly more expensive. Therefore, these warnings, which have also been given from this place in the context of other circumstances for the operation of wine-growing, from catastronomic income, to whether you want from real estate tax or to enormous decisions of so-called masonry, to those stones that only endanger this industry and in some way take the liberty of young people to continue their work. If I go back to this law. In the Slovenian People's Party, we talked to a number of vineyards from different circumstances; whether they are large cellars, or whether they are those vineyards, I don't know, somewhere between 5 and 15 hectares of vineyards, which represent large activities, as well as those of the smallest vineyards. I'm sure they're different. However, I confirm that when you put all these different opinions on the common denominator, what has already been said to everyone is that something needs to be done in this grey market in the field of wine. Let us hope that this solution, which is primarily trying to solve this problem on the one hand with organised supervision and, on the other hand, now by limiting the flow of unboiled wine in guest houses, is appropriate. I think it will have to be closely monitored because this can become a major problem mainly in those small rural areas where most of the wine produced locally is sold. That is how I think that the consequences will have to be monitored and, if they prove to be negative, they will also have to be responded to. However, we also have this comment, which is summarized and because we have already participated on the committee itself in the amendments that have spoken about penalties. I think that really more in the proposals coming to the tables in recent months and when we talk so easily about thousands, even tens of thousands of euros in fines, this can represent a disproportionate amount of punishment for some individuals in terms of what they want to be punished. On the other hand, it really threatens the existence of individual agricultural holdings or, if you want, any smaller craftsmen. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the amendment of colleagues from the SDS, which also reduce these penalties. We certainly do not oppose this law in the Slovenian People's Party and will continue to actively cooperate with it. We hope that these solutions under this law will bring about a positive shift, particularly in this regulated wine market, which is necessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u29	Mag. Jana Jenko will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u30	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Good bye to all of you! An assessment of the processed areas of vineyards was carried out in 2011 on the basis of an existing register of aerial recordings and a more extensive inspection. The findings showed only a little irregularity and confirmed the fact that there is a lot of wine growing in Slovenia, which means that there are smaller areas of vineyards that do not need to be registered in the register or to report on the crop. Thus, in Slovenia it is estimated that between 16 thousand and 18 thousand hectares of processing vineyards. The register of grape and wine growers includes a good 16 thousand hectares, with a crop of 13,000 500 hectares. It is estimated that between 79 million and 90 million litres of wine are produced and only 50 to 60 million litres are reported. As a result of the amendment of the law, administrative units are given the task of keeping a register of producers, while wine inspectors are given the authority to control the filling of wine in the inn. This should address frequent problems in the quality control of wine and in the monitoring of compliance with the rules on the flow of wine in guest restaurants. The proposal also seeks to increase the share of wine production applications and to limit unfair competition in registered wine production. The bill seeks to protect the consumer from misleading about the origin and quality of wine and to protect producers from unfair competition, as has already been said. Therefore, it also restricts the flow of unbleached wine, simplifies the process of punishment, increases the penalties for offences and determines the way in which the crop of a particular year is calculated for the entire territory of Slovenia. In the DeSUS Group, we will support the bill because it is a harmonised law with interest groups. Incentives for preparing the novel were wine growers, whose representatives also actively participated in the working group to prepare changes and supplement the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u31	Thank you. Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u32	Dear representatives of the Government, colleagues and fellow Members! The Ministry, as the main reasons for the adoption of the amendment to the Wine Act, cites the restriction of unfair competition on registered wine production, thereby increasing the share of the application of wine production. As the main principles, it highlights consumer protection by increasing control over the origin and quality of wine and the protection of the producer of grapes and wines against unfair competition. The proposal gives wine inspection, in addition to existing competences, the power to control the traffic in wine in restaurant establishments, restricts the flow of unbleached wine, simplifies the procedure for punishment, increases the penalties for offences and determines the way in which the harvest of a particular year is calculated for the entire territory of Slovenia. The power to control the reporting of data in the register of grape and wine growers will also be acquired by administrative units to allow for more extensive and effective control. Christian Democrats are surprised by the fact that in the debate on the law the public has been divided into two fields: the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber, the Wine Society of Slovenia and the Association of Family Winegrowers - Winemakers of Slovenia support the novel. While the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia strongly opposes it. They base their position on the fact that the ban on pouring unboiled or open wine will impoverish the tourist offer and thereby dissuade the guests mainly from wine-growing Slovenia. They also highlighted the fact that the area in comparable countries of the European Union is much more flexible and allows local wine producers and innkeepers to be closely monitored. In Novi Slovenija we agree with them in fear that Slovenia will somehow overly regulate the area and thereby make life and work more difficult for people. We will not support the amendment of the Wine Act because of all the above mentioned Members of the New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u33	Thank you. Mr Branko Ficko will present the position of the Positive Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u34	Good day to you all! Allow me to give the position of Positive Slovenia to amend the Wine Act; and to a good, quality Slovenian wine. The fact is that Slovenian winemaking and winemaking are drowning in a grey market. Only a circus of 55% of the wine sold is examined or only 30% are top and quality, remaining table. Therefore, as a result of unfair competition, the industry loses the character of the economic activity, which is in red numbers, with the exception of bright points, such as the Radgon Mountains at the expense of foam and good trade, few EPPs, and individual winemakers, who sell most of the products on foreign markets at an appropriate price, thus recognises the quality market. Unregistered producers or sellers shall not charge a duty such as that of the wine cellar, as the wine produced by the cellars as taxable persons from their own grapes is taxed. In addition, they have an ecological tax and a burden on packaging. The domestic wine industry deserves an appropriate price for quality, as it achieves in foreign markets, of course at home. The amendment of the Wine Act leads us in this direction so that, on the basis of the undetected crop at the Circus 5,000 hectares of vineyards, we achieve the goal of increasing the share of the application of wine crops and that, on the basis of the conditions of the filling of wine in the inn, by limiting the flow of non-returnable wine, we achieve a second objective – the limitation of unfair competition or the grey economy. It is important that the amendment is supported by winemakers and wine cellars, i.e. legal persons and espouses. This will support changes in the law in the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia. Let Slovenia be top quality and quality food every day, let us give the industry economic character because it deserves it. At the same time, we protect the consumer from misleading about the origin and quality of wine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u35	Thank you. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 17 December 2013. I am putting into discussion Article 13 and the SDS Group's amendment under point 1 and the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups under point 2. I'm opening a debate. I invite you to report for discussion. Since the government's representative has signed up to the word, would you like a word now? [[Yeah.]] I give the word "magic." Tanja Strniška, State Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Allow me to give the Government an opinion on the amendments tabled. I would like to say that the Government supports the amendments tabled by the coalition, since they in fact allow for the harmonisation in criminal provisions of the provisions of the current European Council Regulation allowing the planting of vines and the production of grapes, musts and wines also of varieties which are not allowed if such production is intended solely for household consumption to the wine grower. Although the European regulation is above the law, it is only right that our law is clean in this part. We also support the proposals on fine correction for certain infringements in a way that is then consistently established principle because the penalties are set within the range that the maximum possible penalty for a given offence is the lowest penalty. A brief comment on the amendments of the SDS Group. These relate to a substantial reduction in fines. However, here I would like to point out that most of the proposed fines following this amendment are significantly lower than the fines prescribed by the law already in force. If I could just give you one example. For example, for legal persons, the maximum penalty imposed on legal persons by these amendments is reduced, proposed even to one sixth of the fines currently in force, which we believe is absolutely contrary to the objectives of the law, which, by more effective supervision and also by sanctioning in essence, is to achieve that there is only quality wine on the market with the relevant documents and that this protects wine producers from unfair competition and consumers from abuse and from wine which would not be in the market of appropriate quality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u37	Thank you, too. I give my word to Mr. Mirko Brultz.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u38	Your Honor! See, wine growing, in fact, agriculture is always extremely sensitive because we know that we are in any way interfering with this activity, we are interfering with the environment and so on, that I will not continue to mention it, because we have already talked about this a number of times. I come from the Vipava wine-growing environment myself, I know a good bristian and karst wine-growing environment, so with great sensitivity I accept the changes of this law and speak for the benefit of the winemakers, of course. I must say that I cannot really support the SDS amendment, because it is only about the kind of amendment, it is said that as much as possible, people will be happy and we will win the next election. But we have a type of activity where we have such ridiculous punishments that when you read in the paper, someone for some serious offense is punished with €100 or €50, and then we say how that is possible. And the punishments a little later. See, competitiveness in Europe and in the world can only be achieved with good, quality winemakers and unfortunately this cannot be small winemakers. This is just how, when we entered the European Union, we knew exactly that small farmers would have a hard time fighting and already our 'big' farmers are compared to European real sticks, they will have a hard time fighting competition, which is enormous. Therefore, I must point out that we have — I know our wine-growing environments — an extremely large, medium-sized world-renowned grape and wine growers. From the Vipava Valley I know farmers who export wine to Japan, even in the USA and so on, but here I think of large cellars such as Dobrova and Vipava basement and similar, which are also excellent, but these small, medium-sized farmers are successful – and today you cannot market wine just like that, I will pour it into a bottle and sell it; there must be a story and so on and they are real masters. I'm always proud of them. What about the little wine growers? I have to say that there are not as many of them in Prekmurje, I know the Lendava Mountains, I know the lower hills and so on; this is another story and you have to think about it. The vast majority of them are a hobby of gardeners who, out of some love of land, to a vineyard, to a good wine have some wine there, have a building, have some market surpluses that they want to sell to recover some of the costs. This sale will also be possible. This needs to be made clear. Not likely in the tavern, because it will not fill in the inox bowl or whatever, but it will sell; I will come to the small vineyard, I will still do it, with a bottle of 20 liters, I will pour wine, buy, pay and go. That's still possible. But you won't be able to sell that at the inn. I have to point out that he's a magician. Katarina Hočevar said exactly in her introduction, when we say bottled drinks, then we all think immediately of the bottle. No, it's also an inox container on which is a note that shows where it comes from, registration and so on, not to mention. What's on the buttholes, because you got a serial number and I don't know what it is, right on bottled wine. We were also cautious about selling musts. On the board we said that must but you can't pour it in the inox bowl and it in August – sorry. Yes, in Primorska by the end of August – to sell at a public event because this matter will blow up. [[…]] So there's a change in marriage. Look, the restaurant will sell this wine, and now again, to make it clear, this wine from the inox bowl will be able to pour in the Mayflower and put it on the table. It's still bottled wine that no one will think we're just gonna be out of a bottle or I don't know what. Let us keep this cultural heritage, which is important to me, always prefers to pour wine to friends from a beautiful vessel, potted — whatever — rather than from some bottle, such and different. I have to say that – I think yesterday – I read one statement by the director of the Ptuj basement, and don't mind me mentioning it; Vinko Mandelj is this. He says it will finally begin to dominate the realization that every tax evasion is a tax at the expense of all of us. That's it. We can no longer go into this organisation of agricultural production and also other matters indefinitely with this insane freedom. I read yesterday that in Maribor, customs and others discovered 360 bottles of spirit drinks and 414 bottles of wine from a foreign country. He's been selling some shopkeeper on the stand, and we've just been tolerating it all these years. Go to Italy to sell wine on the stand, in black, without taxes, without everything; and in Austria! I'm asking, are these vendors going to be protected by the Chamber of Commerce? I understand the Chamber of Commerce that it is against the treasury, now also against this law, because it protects such an issue that does not matter. Of course, I must point out that I am pleased that the Government, the Ministry, has also accepted the proposal of the Social Democrats to reduce these great, great penalties. Slowly from the European sample, we pass the penalties on to our premises, and that is not the case. Because first of all the maximum penalty was EUR 63,000, I said Goriška hill, wine cellar, if he gets a fine of EUR 60,000 – do you know how many liters of wine it is? Thus this is reduced to 50 % or whatever. This punishment has been reduced! As the SDS proposes, I cannot do so – and the Social Democrats will not be supported. Then we smile again, I sell these 360 bottles of liquor on the stand there, I pay 100 euros in fines and I go home! It can't run like that. There must be punishment, I'm sorry. She's an adult, too. I always point out that I don't drive through you slowly because I can't drive 20 kilometers faster, but I drive slowly because I'm also afraid of punishment. And one who has bad intentions must fear punishment. And no one's forcing anyone to get into trouble, then get punished. No way! Even when I'm going to the store, no one makes me want to get something, but I'm not doing it. Not because I'm afraid of punishment, but because it's such education and it's rules in our society. But, of course, I support the coalition amendment. Look, it's some natives, we call it frigids in Primorsk, or lockers somewhere in Gorički – and I'm not going to go any further – and someone has a flier that has something to do with that wine, that's more fragrant, domestic and indigenous. And that's right. This too is to be cultivated, but you can't have a vineyard, five hectares, a sown dress, because then you know what alcohol is and what causes society. I will, of course, support the amendment of the coalition, not the other one, and I think that we are also bringing at least a few orders with this law to this area of wine-growing; and that is good. You know, let's give what I said in the presentation a little bit to figure out what it's like to import these bad wines – it's coming to us now from all over the world, so it's not good to drink, and that's not good – and how we would melt it and encourage our farmers to live well from wine production. I know a whole bunch of them who live very well; they work, nothing falls out of the sky, they depend on time, on the market and so on, but they are real masters, and they are not old vine growers, we have young ones. In Vipavska, Goriška, Goriška hills and in Kras we have young excellent vineyards. The hat's off! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u39	Thank you, too. The word has magic. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings from the Secretary of State with co-workers and all present, Members and Members of Parliament! Let me first express my real support for the way in which we adopt or prepare solutions in this law. I must say that when we came to the committee, I was surprised at the great support of the vineyard associations, which at the same time thanked the co-workers or the Ministry responsible for listening and actually introducing solutions to the amendment of the law, for which winemakers and wine growers believe that they will be a step towards better regulation in this area – or more order in this field. Let such an approach be an example to other ministries in the preparation of different legislation. It has to be acknowledged that when the members of the committee received the first proposal from the ministry at the table, these penalties were indeed higher than we are considering today. It must be acknowledged that we may have listened to the warnings of the opposition Members as well, which I am pleased to hear on the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment. It must be said that we have already adopted amendments on the committee to lower these penalties. Let me touch on the proposal by the SDS amendment to Article 13. You suggest lowering the fines, but I find your proposal somewhat confusing. Why? Because it is not proportionate, irrespective of existing fines, nor is there a fair relationship between the proposed fines for worse or other offences. In certain cases for other offences you propose a half fine, somewhere this is a quarter lower, and elsewhere, for example, five times lower according to worse offenses. If I give just one example, the proposal for the lowest possible penalty for a natural person is EUR 100, which is only EUR 50 in 8 days for a worse offence. And that is, for example, a penalty for someone putting on the market bad wine or deceiving the consumer by labelling. 50 euros, and I don't know what a huge amount of wine that is. I will therefore support the coalition amendments to the articles setting out the fines, because they follow the principle of criminal provisions in the novel, by which the upper limit is the value of a 10-folder, for example, the lower values and it is uniform or more transparent, but also logically regulated. In this place, I would also like to thank the vineyards for insisting on this, I will say, the cruel market of competition with foreign countries, and I hope that we will at least make this novelty more order in our home environment so that it will also be a motivation and a goal to persist in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u41	Thank you, too. Mr. Zvonko Lah has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I must first conclude that both predecessors have little knowledge of this issue in view of the debate. I'm sorry. Mr. Brulc, you've already discussed on the committee, and today you said that the punishment of $60,000 for a large wine cellar is too high a sentence. In our proposal, this penalty is a maximum of EUR 10,000. If this is inappropriate, if this is not enough for one wine cellar, which pays grapes to growers for two years and gets another 10,000 euros in fines – do you know how many grapes this cellar could pay to a vineyard waiting for a year or more to pay its produce? And for a small winegrower who processes a few hundred vines, from 100 to 500 I speak for a small farmer as a natural person, we also have larger producers, but they have between 1,000 and 5,000 euros in fines, but I also think it's a pretty high sentence; or for a responsible person in a wine cellar between 400 and 2,000 euros in fines, I think if he gets an average of 1,000 euros, he's also about one month's salary. [[…]] I also think it's proportionate somewhere. Based on what's worse. If a small producer selling wine selling 500 litres of wine catches up with an inspector and the wine has run out a little bit, he gets 500 euros in fines. I think he's paying the country a year's worth of crops, maybe 500 liters he's got for sale. I speak mainly on behalf of small vineyards, there are at least 10,000 in Dolenjska. I myself was the chairman of the Management Board of the Dolenjska Association of Vineyards, where 32 societies, 6 thousand vineyards are included and perhaps some percentage of the larger vineyards that live on wine production. Everyone else is a lover who works on such steep slopes as Europeans call heroic winemaking, which invests part of their wages and pensions in being able to process this land with love. However, we must also look at this law in the context of all other taxes, which are new or increased or introduced for these small vineyards. In fact, in Dolenjska there is also the Law on Spatial Planning of the Wall – if someone had a building building, if they had built a building building, it was a condition that 8 to 10 acres of vineyards were built, the wall was supposed to be 5x7 meters or 6x8 meters. This building will now be burdened, as colleague Bogovic said last, from 150, 160 euros in real estate tax. My colleague, Hočevar, said that the cadastral income was expected to rise 14 times. And Mr. Brulc, when you said small vineyards produce on 10 acres of vineyards – that is about 300 to 400 vines and if you produce a cricket, it is two liters per vine, that is a maximum of 800 litres of cricket, of which the consumption is possible 200 litres, 500 to 600 litres for sale. Where's he gonna sell it? Tell me where he'll sell it. If you're going to buy it, it's a gray economy. All the wine that is sold must have the analysis that the wine is correct and that is all I think this winegrower needs to prove the quality of that wine. But we have control now; anyone who has more than 5 acres of vineyards must register in the register. Anyone who has more than 10 acres of vineyards must report the crop. And when you report a vineyard, you also have to report what kind of reed you have, what is sown, what is planted, you must not have what is not allowed for that wine-growing area. And then if you report the crop, you have to have an analysis and sell this wine somewhere on the stand; but you said yourself that the inspectors found out how much imported wine is sold on the stands. This is the same as the one from Trieste, which is organically grown in markets in Slovenia. The inspector can control, anyone who sells should have an analysis. The analysis shows where this producer is from, what quality of wine is, and if the inspector suspects that it is not of quality, he can take a sample and take it to the analysis and then punish it. However, if we want in today's times, when the state only sees how it will reap as much as possible with its taxes, with new taxes and thus feed on the rich bureaucracy of the state, the most national administration, we are not aware or should be aware of the fact that we Members are destroying a small person. These are also small vineyards. If we want to and boast in the world about how we have a beautiful country, a cultural landscape, a beautiful treatment, then let's stop doing it the way we do it. From this small winegrower it is necessary to count the cadastral income, which is the taxation of a small vinegrower – flat-rate taxation is the cadastral income. Then, with the property tax and now we ban this small vineyard from selling the right wine with analysis — where will it sell if not in the restaurant? Not in stores, either. But all of us who get to know each other a little bit about cleavage know what wine is made for sale in a bottle. This wine must be ready to withstand a temperature of 40, 50 degrees somewhere in an exhibition in a bottle. This wine has an increased, much higher content of free and bound sulphur to withstand. But it's not that he has better wine, it's that much worse wine. Most of these wines must be filtered, those tasters can tell on the evaluation if you filter and treat wine with various cleaners; damage to the evaluation and expect top marks. We had examples of tourists coming from France, where there are good wine acquaintances, among the best in the world when they wanted homemade wine. I also know the Dolenjians, if we want to get a real track on Crassus, you get it at the farmer's house, not in the wine cellar. Why? Because homemade wine, which is not stripped of wine with various oenological procedures, is prepared for bottles. We probably all want it, even in the guesthouses, the best wine we can get. If the wine is also poured into an inox container of 25 or 50 litres and then transported and immediately attached to the barcomat, the wine will be killed. Those who know what homemade wine is — the best wine from the barrel is either directly or directly from the tank with such a content of free or bound sulphur, which is minimum, that the wine is still quality and persistent. It's the best wine. What are we going to do with this law? We support the entry of wine inspectors into the guesthouses to check the quality of this wine flowing in this bar, which will absolutely contribute to the quality of the wine sold or offered. That must be a certain advantage. We are pleased that this law also includes the two amendments that we have proposed on the Committee. This is an amendment, or part of this amendment, not to penalise those who still have a sown native, and not to punish those who have a vine planted for their own use outside the wine-growing environment – then we have learned later that it is also in the European Directive, but not in our law so far. We have cases where we have quite a few vineyard societies outside wine-growing areas. They produce, but for their own use – why not? Why don't we even put that wine on the review list? But they can't sell it publicly because it's probably right. However, it may also be necessary to adapt these wine-growing areas to what wine growers have found to be producing quality wine with new grounds, new varieties, and clones other than those wine-growing environments. We have the Schilcher case in Austria – you've probably heard of Schilcher. What a story the Austrians made with this Schilcher! Wine Schilcher comes from a table grapes that does not reach a sugar level, I don't know how high, there's 15% possible 16%, and we know that you can't produce wine that has more than 10% of it without sugar. It's worse than our drill. However, as table grapes were grown and sold in a certain area until other varieties came, sweeter from abroad, the sale of this homemade table grapes would have stopped and that area would have collapsed. Grape growers would stop because grapes couldn't sell, and they made a story that started from this grapes to produce wine that sweetened it to be good, and made a story, protected it and developed tourism in this area. Now a lot of this wine is selling, which in my opinion is still significantly worse than our table wines. But the story does its thing! Instead of maintaining this heroic vineyard on such steep slopes, with small vineyards, where we have a cultural landscape, with this beautiful land worked — we cannot expect any profit here. However, if we allow these small vineyards to keep their small market surpluses properly, they will get an analysis as a document that is good, that wine is good for sale and that we will allow them to pour home-made wine in the inn – I think we have only made a plus, not a minus to promote it! These small market surpluses are usually better than homemade wine, which is processed for sale in large quantities and for bottles. I think that little vine growers can make a promotion to the big vine growers. We have a case where guests come to Dolenjsko to the health resorts and then try domestic wine, cricket and other varieties, and they want to buy this wine at home, in England, in Sweden, in Denmark. They're asking why they don't get that wine at home because there's a particular cook shop. In this way, I think that opportunities and advertising are opening up for these larger vineyards so that they can offer these wines also to foreign countries where demand is. And with the development of tourism, these options will open up significantly more. However, if we pressure these small vineyards with various taxes, with increased cadastral income, we know what an increased cadastral income means that affects the calculation of income. [[…]] What does this mean for various social contributions such as a child allowance, then a contribution to kindergarten care, then scholarships, all owners will want to get rid of the one that reduces their chances of obtaining some state funds. We already have cases where young people in the legacy debate do not take up obligations and do not take over real estate, if this only reduces the standard, they do not increase. They take over just as much as they do in a legacy debate or from someone else — and you don’t have any of it! The same is true of these smaller vineyards. However, we have a problem if some people give up because there will certainly be a few older farmers who will leave the vineyards. If a younger person takes over, but also has this restriction that if he takes over the adjacent vineyard for rent to process them, he is limited to the fact that he cannot build a larger building because it is an agricultural area and is limited by the Spatial Planning Act and by municipal spatial acts. It takes several years to get to a building where it can build an economic building so that it can process a larger vineyard than it has. And besides, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u43	Mr. Bell Lah, the amendment speaks of fines. I believe that a large part of your debate has been focused on the fact that, because of these fines, there is probably a problem with the existence of the smallest. But let's stay close to this amendment so we don't go too far with the content.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u44	Look, there's something else. I think it also applies to [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u45	It's content, not time, Mr. Zvonko. We had a good time. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u46	I don't think I'm talking about bananas, but I'm talking about winemaking and the fines that relate to it. I want to say that these fines will further threaten these vineyards and if one gets a high fine – because now it is the custom that there is another article in these laws that we adopt under this government, at the end of this article, to instruct inspectors not to make the fine the lowest, so that they can be even higher than the lowest. This gives us direction to charge as much as possible. I want to stress this, so I'm talking about the other taxes that are already going to threaten these small vineyards, that there will be more fines if they strictly start working on this, because now we're giving rights to administrative units, as it was new, because so far it was not good enough to call the vineyards to register their vineyards, etc., but administrative units can then call the construction inspectors, but I don't know who else and we'll get the situation that is in Macedonia. Whatever you go to see, there were smaller vineyards and vineyards in Macedonia, but everything has collapsed, everything is falling apart. It's a big danger. Those vine growers, the representatives attending the committee’s meeting, gave it just so that if some vineyards were abandoned, there would be a great danger of a golden reed, so that it would spread significantly faster. Even now, according to the rules, it is necessary to treat the vine twice, including the native, with insecticide against the American cartilage that carries the golden reed, and it is in certain areas already an alarm and that is why vine growers have to cut the vine. That is why I think that we should aim to preserve this wine-growing industry, to offer these buildings, which have their dwellings, for the purpose of tourism, because we have more demand than the offer in Dolenjska, and that the tourism project in the walls is progressing very well. The maximum obstacle is the applicable authorisation. However, if we are to develop tourism in this direction, we must keep all the vineyards processed, bring the infrastructure to these parts, the municipal infrastructure, and take some of it out. And great vineyarders will also benefit, because they will be able to sell more wine abroad. There was, however, no representative of small vineyards on the committee. They were representatives of family winegrowers, family cellars, large cellars, such as the largest cellar that produces the cricket, but there were no small cellars. He was a representative of the Chamber of Commerce. Yesterday you could also see at the Odessa that they were against it. Order needs to be done, but not at any cost, because it's always worth as much as it costs it, it's not the right strategy. This is about destroying small vineyards. I think it can be arranged substantially differently. By banning it, this law will increase the price of wine in the inn of local unboiled wines. We no longer have enough wine in Slovenia, we have seen that something is over 80%. And what's that gonna mean? More interest, when the price goes up, is to import valuable wine from Europe's wine-growing shares, which I think Mr Brulc has already stressed, because traders will have more pawn, but we cannot ban it because we are in the European Union. But we cannot compete with small vineyards, with fragmented vineyards on such steep slopes, when European wine-growing countries plant vineyards on the plain and mechanically process everything. So what's the last thing? We'll have abandoned hills, masonry. In stores it will sell cheap imported wine, as it used to be, remember back, from Macedonia imported, and I think this can come back quickly. And we can't appreciate what we have. This government sees only where it will pick up as much as possible, but it does not matter what happens in a few years, how we will burden our offspring. Would it be better to go abroad or do nothing and wait for the country's social support? I do not see the levers to give people hope, but I do see that, even though under conditions that are more difficult to process than in foreign countries, they are as competitive as they are to produce food — while good wine is more expensive. But with such moves that we take, such laws, we go in the opposite direction. But we Members have to watch, not just nod a particular department, because they're just improving something. We need to see the whole, including other laws that burden a certain part of the economy, such as agriculture or other. The master must look at everything that weighs him down and calculate whether it is worth it or not. If it's not worth it, no one's going to force it, the houses that are falling apart, which are old, are protected, but they're still falling apart, and it's not an honor. Let us not let these beautiful, processed snacks begin to rot with sown walls. Messengers, go among the people, among whom some of you went only before the elections, and ask them what they think about it. I think the picture will be very different. I come from this end and try as hard as I can to talk to people so I can represent them here. And believe me, for these small vineyards, which are vast in Prekmurje, Styria, Dolenjska, in the White landscape, these laws that we now accept, not only this law, are not good. It will be difficult to survive and endure on this earth without further burdening them and threatening them with such fines as this law. That is why I propose, colleagues and colleagues, that you support our amendment, because it is significantly more vital in view of the situation we have in our country than we have proposed, even with reduced fines, which you have also recognised in your position.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u47	Thank you. I'm giving the word now, mag. Tanja Strniša, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u48	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Allow me to respond to the debate by Mr Lach and to make certain explanations because the legislation already in force has been misinterpreted and certain replicas would have to do with what we are proposing with this amendment of the law. I may start by saying that the law was in fact in line with the association of small winegrowers' associations, which were represented by the Agriculture Committee through the Chamber of Agriculture and participated in the working group all the time and fully supported the law. The other thing I would like to say is that we do not impose any new administrative barriers to small vineyards, nor do we take anything for vineyarders or anyone else. Nor does it claim that it is a gray economy if a small vineyarder sells his wine on his farm. Most winegrowers and all the small winegrowers in general are taxed on cadastral income, so they can sell wine as their own crop without an account and thus not cause a grey economy. In addition, it is considered that any small winegrower may also cultivate at home varieties which are not allowed in a particular wine-growing environment or in a particular area, so that this wine, as I have already said before, can be used only for its own use. However, in the criminal provisions, we have specifically deleted this as an offence because it is clear that this is not prohibited. I would like to stress that wine growers can sell their wine at home, open wine, not bottled wine. And as was said in the second debate, if the final buyer comes to the lower winegrower to buy wine, he can take it up to 30 litres of unboiled — it is said, in a container that is not marked — even without a accompanying document. A small winegrower or any one of them can sell wine to the innkeeper. So if it has market surpluses, it will be able to sell it to the innkeeper as it is now, but it must be in a container suitable for food. Depending on the quality of the wine, it must be in a glass container for top quality wine, it may be in a glass or stainless container, but another wine may also have a different packaging, which must be originally closed, it is said to be visible if it has been opened once, and the packaging must bear a declaration or label. In this way wine can be sold, and from such dishes the innkeeper will be able to pour wine anywhere in the jars. So, in what we're used to drinking open wine out of a jug, the law doesn't interfere. The important thing is, what kind of vessel does it pour into those jugs? This also protects the quality of wine, because in such containers that are closed, wine also preserves its quality qualities and, above all, prevents wine from mixing, mixing, and thus protects the buyer. I would also like to say that the current arrangement is such that open wine or unboiled wine can be poured only in wine-growing areas, I would stress once again, only country wine, and that wine is only 5%. Of all the wine that can be evaluated — that is to say, this wine, which is intended for the market — only 5% of the wine is declared as wine that will be sold unboiled. So the intervention in the inn or their activity is minimal, but of course it is important to ensure the quality of the wine. All winemakers have tried and asked us for this law in order to ensure that it is served with high quality wine or that we raise the culture of wine consumption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr Brulc still wants to discuss it, and then Mr. Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u50	Thank you so much for saying that. That's too bad. My colleague Lah talks for 26 minutes when he gets an answer, but he goes out. And then he'll say 20 more minutes. And I now allow myself because he evaluates me and teaches me – we will already agree on outside who has produced more wine in his life, colleague Lach or I. But let me use his vocabulary to get someone here to use bananas. We, the Primors, say he's wasting bales. That was it. Look, sometimes someone else knows something. Comrade Lach, who is not here, please leave me alone, I'm not attacking him. But, look, he mentioned the company of vine growers outside wine-growing environments — normally, why not! You can think, the city of Ljubljana is a city of wine and grapes, okay. Prekmurci have mountain society – yes, why not! Not to mention. That's all good. All associations, whatever promotes wine, promotes the country, unites people, is good. It has been said that I will not repeat: we will be able to drink homemade wine in our own inn. Why not?Oh, my God! We don't have to drink it from Argentina. No way! It's homemade wine. I also said from Mayolka that it was possible to pour it out of the raspberries of the dishes and so forth. A small winegrower, now who he is, should we consider whether he is a pensioner who has 500 vines and has a market surplus, even as I have talked about it, he wants to sell it to pay some of the costs; that is also possible. He's just gonna pour me a bottle, a bottle of 30, 35 liters, and I'm taking it home. He mentioned tourists coming from thermals, and then we'd like to buy wine. They can buy! And his wine. Because you know, at least with us, every small vineyard has its own label, it has its own image on it, whatever it is, because it can buy it, why not. But to think that a small winegrower will be selling wine in Sweden, in Paris, I don't know where everything is – it's illusory. That's our problem, because we don't know how to combine forces and those who get a market and can't sell it there, I'm saying, 500 thousand bottles -- they're dumping it. You're not taking 300 bottles to the U.S., so it's merging; big farmers are merging, including our wine cellars and so on. Look, he mentioned that a small vineyard would not be able to build an economic building. Oh, come on! He says he's going to sell 500 liters of wine and he's going to build an economic building. It is said that it is not a vineyard; whether it has any other activity – I know a whole range of those who have jobs or are retired and still have vineyards. They're a little too much to produce, they can't drink it all themselves, but they can sell it as they were told. This law does not prevent it. Now it's just about the punishments. Look, 50 or 100 euros in fines - I'll sell 500 litres of bad wine, yellowish, little gypsy, as we say and so on, and they'll get me, and then I'll pay 100 euros in fines if I pay first, it'll only be 50 euros. This is our problem, because in some cases, I've talked about it, punishments are so low that those who have to pay the penalty laugh. But no one forces the wine cellar – and I have information, I have inquired – any real wine cellar or winegrowers who do it professionally, do not benefit from the lewdness and do not pay fines that do not have to be paid. You don't have to pay. Thus this maturity among our vineyards exists and this is good and we can be proud of it because we have better wine than some wine in Provence and so on. Foreigners come to us and say all that. This has not come from itself, but a lot of effort and work has been put in here, and this law exclusively contributes to making some order in this area, in order to pay taxes to those we have to pay. I've been paying taxes my whole life because otherwise it's not going to work. And that's right! I will not support this amendment of the SDS, as I have already mentioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mrs. Tanja Strniša has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u52	Thank you so much for saying that. I would just like to confirm what the Member of Parliament has also discussed. I am really sorry that there is no Lach MP in the debate room, because we have actually listened to his debate on this law, and we have taken this into account to a large extent in the drafting of the amendments. For this reason, the Government has also supported such amendments, as regards greater clarity as regards the cultivation of varieties which are not allowed, but are possible for their own use, as well as sanctions, the level of sanctions. Also with regard to this debate, which he has opened today on what the law makes possible and does not allow, we have really gone through this debate on the Committee on Agriculture and I would really like to be rational in this law and to see these changes in fact as positive. In fact, wine growers are unexpectedly waiting for these changes to make it more effective In this case it is only to allow for greater traceability of wine and more effective control. [[…]] Our laws have not been focused on the control of small producers, which do not disturb, they do not make unfair competition, they do not work in the market of problems. But if there is no traceability, if there is no good control, there is room for manoeuvre for various speculators and we want to limit you. And I ask that we have this before our eyes when we consider and when we vote in this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr. Lisec is now on his way, and Mr. Žnidar is on his way.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u54	Madam President, thank you for your word. Secretary of State with a team, colleagues and colleagues, a nice greeting on my behalf as well! Now we're probably in a pretty good marriage where apparently the coalition and the opposition are cutting down on fines or penalties. The fact is that most of the legislation that comes into the National Assembly under the government’s tactics seems to have a fetish that increases penalties or fines, as has been said, up to ten times. When we mostly invest in the SDS in amendments, where we reduce these penalties or fines, it is not some kind of rhetoric, but just an assessment of the real situation, that is, the situation on the ground. We also have comparative views on the legislation that this government has not yet reformed, or on the laws that are written in the ministries and where apparently the Government wants to increase penalties or fines abnormally. In short, our amendment proposal is due to some real reality on the ground. We do not want to participate in the objective pursued by the coalition, but this is that people must be punished, because only high penalties and severe punishment will put them in some order, and of course the coalition will not forget that it wants to fill its budget on the basis of these higher penalties and fines. I feel that when I read the draft law or the law that came into the National Assembly, and then after what we accepted with the amendment, this minister — I don’t know on the basis of what fact — is somehow unpopular to a smaller farmer or a smaller vineyard. Apparently, there is a policy of major operators in various areas, in this case in the area of wine-growing, which will likely have a rather poor impact on Slovenian rural areas and also on the existence of Slovenian wine-growing; especially the wine-growing industry that we are witnessing in the countryside, these are the smaller farms with smaller vineyards, which are more loving in nature, or when people have the opportunity or desire not to allow nature – or increasingly politicians, which with unloved measures implement a fact – that the Slovenian countryside grows. In short, our amendment is quite realistic. It is, however, a fact that neither this law nor any amendment will be adopted, either coalition or ours, the opposition, will solve the problem of wine-growing. However, as I have already said, it is likely that a large number of farmers will have their hair grayed out and will have their wallet so poor. For, as has already been said, it is not only this law that will somehow try to discipline a smaller winegrower, that government is also trying to discipline him with the help of a cadastral income, which is yet to increase enormously, that we have talked about the property tax, obviously not enough, and also in the field of punishment or new fines, that the Government is following this policy, that the smaller farmers or the smaller winegrowers want to meet the fins or somehow deter them from continuing to engage in this fine profession and activity. In short, despite this law, there will still be problems in practice, and let it be a problem to pour wine, namely the question of must, let it be a question of nationals. As for the law, once again, the State Secretary's argument on how our sentences are even lower than in the law in force does not convince me. That is why in the National Assembly we are Members or legislators to decide what the penalties will be. And if the opposition proposes smaller penalties such as the current penalties, there is nothing wrong with that. I think it's more wrong that the government wants to increase the sentences by up to ten times. Moreover, the legislation contains articles such as Article 15 in this case: "For offences under this law, a fine may also be imposed in a swift procedure in an amount higher than the minimum prescribed fine laid down by this law." I have already talked about similar nonsense in the Forest Act about carriers, where some inspector is lucky to run into his friend Janez on the ground, give him the lowest fine, and on the other hand, he has a neighbor in France who, because of not knowing what kind of issues he is fighting, and the law is going to give him the highest prescribed penalty. In short, a policy of punishing people with good eyes or according to certain human relations cannot be adopted, but the government allows it. When the representatives of the ministry, as well as the representatives of the coalition, said that the penalties were real or that our sentences were too small, I would just like to invite all those who spoke about it – well, fortunately, we are talking about this problem, whether it's from the wine-growing environment, whether it's a Ljubljana or a Goranian MP who doesn't blame me – those who know what the price of grapes is on the market or what the price of a liter of wine is, whether it's our downland flower or another noble drop, I think it's a problem that this law doesn't solve. This is because the price of a liter of wine for a particular producer or for a winegrower is low or ridiculously low. We will further impoverish this market with such laws and penalties. In short, our amendment is real. Let me finish. When we talk about the amount of fines, I personally think that it is for each winegrower, whether it is the largest wine houses or cellars or for lovers who have, for example, 400 reeds and want to do something with this wine or with this residue, I think that the highest penalty for such a grape processor or wine producer is the shame when his neighbors or his surroundings find out that he somehow violated the law and allocated the area to a black package. In short, shame is the highest penalty that this gardener will face, not whether it is a punishment, such as in the bill, which was abnormal, even up to €60,000. I think that if a smaller winegrower, as in our amendment, is punished with a fine of 100, it will probably be 500 euros at most if we know that it is possible to get a letter of very quality exercise for one euro, this is a year-round crop for a variety of winegrowers. I believe every vine grower will try to avoid this punishment. But as I said before, the greatest punishment will be disgraced if this punishment ever occurs. Our amendment goes in this direction, that if a crime is proved to be a crime, it should be paid, but paid for in real. I must say that I am a little concerned about certain discussions, for in the congregation from which I come, we have quite a few associations of vine growers. I have even been on my own twice, but I am not a member, in two lectures, and I say that this education and all of these provisions or all of this legislation, as well as all the other legalities of this vineyard market, are very well known by the growers, and we will not save what is their daily work by any law. In short, let us be realistic, have penalties and fines of life or our time, not here to solve the problem of an empty state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Since there have been several requests for discussion, I am opening the way for the application. Four panellists reported. First up is Mr Branko Ficko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Nice hello to you all! Interestingly, there has not been as much unity in this law as it does in terms of the profession of both wine houses and wineries. It is true that the Chamber of Commerce made a comment on the filling of rinfuss wines due to the inox containers, but it was, of course, well explained that this matter was allowed in the inox bowls. In fact, our problem, the problem of the Government and the problem of us Members, should be in the past, in terms of the market. As much as 55% of the wine in this Slovenia has not been and is still not registered, and this goes into tens of millions of litres. This is a fundamental problem from a fiscal point of view, in terms of control, as in terms of consumer protection, etc. Finally, this law will regulate this matter by recording the areas of vineyards, as regards the volume of this wine, as well as the restrictions on the filling of wine in guest restaurants. And who are these wine producers we're talking about? We're talking about wine cellars. It says in this first group there are winemakers and espouses. It is an economic sector which has employed people who pay taxes and, of course, all other burdens from their operations. From this point of view, this industry must be protected as an economic sector, as it has not been protected so far because of the impact of unfair competition and of the grey economy. On the other hand, we have small producers, we are talking about a hobby of manufacturers, and it is huge. They are located in Dolenjska, Prekmurje, Styria and Primorska, etc. Nobody's saying that someone's working against these small producers now. They have normal legal conditions to produce wine for their own needs, but they do have surpluses. And it's only a matter of what to do with this surplus. This gulf has so far gone along the paths it went, even in the field of the grey economy. I'm not saying it was just this part, but the experience, if you want, in Pomour or in this territory that I know; you're already selling one bigger grape to a cooperative, which is why we have organized cooperatives. The second form is that smaller, hobby winemakers unite into their cooperatives – we have the basis of social entrepreneurship. There are already mobile teams on the ground for charging, analysis, etc. Then it is only the formation of a brand and this group of members, cooperatives can normally this goods, this product with registered origin of course on the market like everyone else. The talk was about the walls, about the landscape and so on, about tourism. The wall can be farm tourism, rinfu wine is allowed to pour on farm tourism. That's a fact. So, it's just a matter of organizing the future and we have to submit to it. That is, of course, my support for this arrangement, which is that we protect an economic sector that has not been protected, the wine cellar, the espionage. I have already said that all of these legal persons have had more burden than the so-called hobby producers who are to unite, because we have enough legal forms. That's how I support it. About the punishment. The punishment must, of course, be brought up. We're probably writing things because we're not going to break. But it is true that this is not directed at a small producer. You know things about shoppers working on the market in Slovenia; I'm not talking about these small ones, but these are stories. Recently, in the direction of Prekmurje, wine went to milk tanks and eastwards and so on. So, wine is being transported, wine is being sold, and that's what the so-called black market is meant to limit. That's how I'm going to support this marriage. I can't support the SDS amendment. But I'll support it as far as the homeland is concerned. We've also got a yurp, an autochthonous variety to stay with us, of course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u57	Thank you very much, Mr. Ficko. Mrs. Renata Brunskole, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Nicely greeted! I will support the coalition's amendment because I agree to protect the wine grower from unfair competition, to which we have been particularly warned by those who have felt this most. Major producers, agricultural cooperatives, major wine growers and winemakers. And let me also say that several times in the local area I have had the opportunity to hear the words of the Director of the Metlik Agricultural Association, who stressed that large winemakers have been discriminated against for more than a decade and that he believes that it is right and that we must all participate in society under equal conditions. So, it's as big as it is smaller. Today, the debate has repeatedly highlighted what are the thoughts that lead to the need for further improvement. Above all, I am pleased that we have been united here, including at the meeting of the committee, that the amendment and addition of this law, namely the Wine Act, are necessary. We want to protect the consumer from misleading about the origin and quality of wine, so we want anyone who orders wine that buys wine to know what he bought, which wine is it, whether it is Slovenian wine that he originated and so on. Also the wine-growing countries we have in Slovenia, three wine-growing countries, nine wine-growing areas – we are the ones who like homemade, open wines and want this tradition of ours, this culinary and oenological specialty in Slovenia. This is how we supported the issues in connection with the Committee and also resolved the issue in relation to the filling of musts. I also said myself that must and roasted bone are a culinary-enological feature of Slovenia and it would be strange to say that the must can no longer be poured in the form we are used to selling. So this issue has been resolved, including in connection with a native. My colleague Ficko mentions some of them, and I also do not imagine that today we should say that after our old vines, dressing rooms or bleach we should no longer have in the territory of Slovenia and that we should ban it. I don't think that would be the right way. In Slovenia, we are also known for our young wines, as on one side of the must, then the young Portuguese wine produced in the White landscape, which we call Slovenian beaujolais, would be surprised if we went to another way here, such as our characteristic and by which even the French would commend us. And indeed in our wine country there are also special features of pouring homemade open wines. As a wine lover – also as a first-degree sommelier – in some ways also as a wine connoisseur and combining wine with food – I do not represent and therefore agree with colleagues who have stressed the importance of domestic Slovenians also pouring open wines. Therefore, I am also somehow distracted by the diction in the law that this wine should have or bottled – it is absolutely not at issue to me, especially for top wines – but on the other hand the characteristics of closed inox containers, in the form that I saw yesterday in the media, in Odessa, such as beer judges, say in such form that wine does not breathe and wine is alive. Therefore, it would also make sense to consider the form of this dictatorship, if it is the indisputability of these inox vessels; whether this is just what was seen in the media, which is likely to be another issue and that is why some have warned us. This is particularly not clear to me when it comes to wine growers who are innkeepers at the same time. Will they have to seal their wine in such barrels, that is, seal it in a cellar that they have a few hundred meters from the inn and then bring this sealed judge to the inn, put it on a bar and pour it? That's doubt, that's a question. Every winemaker can say, "When I pour wine, then the wine is upset, then the wine is shocked and it takes at least a week for the wine to calm down, then the wine is usually poured." This is one of such wine-making features and I think that these are questions that we are interested in are issues related to the Wine Act, but this does not mean that we do not want to make order in the field of wine-growing and wine-growing. Absolutely. I'll support this marriage. I also agree with the amendment. I will support the amendment of the coalition. Let me also point out that both the coalition and the opposition went together to support the amendment, where we also halved the amount of the penalty from the one originally proposed. But it is true that everyone would be more pleased with the lower penalties; only with this would they do — what? If the penalties were to be further reduced, some would again encourage them to continue to say, "The penalty is so low, it is better to pay the penalty," and probably then, in the field of winemaking, we would not establish the order that we want to establish, and also in some way, destroy the grey economy in this area. However, we want to continue to support, as colleagues have said today, the small winegrower and the winemaker. By the Ministry, it was stressed how this could be done that even small vineyards would need no invoices and so on until the amount of 30 litre. So they'll be able to sell their smaller surpluses. However, I understand that this small vinegrower will, once he sells it, somehow provide the means that he will be able to perform the most necessary in the coming year, even if he focuses on organic wine production, the most urgent spraying to protect the vine and to produce healthy grapes. Well, I'll support the amendment to the Wine Act. I also want order to be established in the field of registers concerning the number of vines in individual producers. I also saw in this one interesting comparison yesterday, what the aerial footage shows, what the actual records show, and so on. However, we must also bear in mind that Slovenia is a wine country. Slovenia is internationally recognised and recognised as a country that is in the world summit itself, after excellent wines produced per capita. In the past, as mayor of Metlika, I have said many times: "I am proud to be the mayor of the municipality, where we are in the Slovenian summit of the litre of premium wine per capita." The Republic of Slovenia also has such a world primate. I am sure that with the Wine Act we will establish order and, in particular, even though we are in the EU's large family, we will still protect the Slovenian winemaker, and we will not work in this direction in contravention of what is our historical characteristic. We'll keep the wine. Wine is also food in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u59	Thank you very much, Mrs. Brunskol. Mr. Ljubo Žnidar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u60	Dear Prime Minister, representatives of the Ministry, colleague and colleague! Of course, I am also advocating that, with appropriate legislation, in this case with the Wine Act, the Office is both producing and selling the wine itself. The law brings some improvements in this area. In short, some segments are regulated. In my opinion, however, in some segments it goes from one extreme to another, it is said from a lack of regulation, to another extreme, which causes too much restraint, too much rigour both in production, in areas and also in the distribution of wine itself. Business activity shall be limited or made more difficult in the cultivation and planting of native species. Here, I would say, the dictions strictly restrict this cultivation and planting and cultivation, which is the result of the wine itself. Let's take a look at the neighbors. I know the answer of the Secretary of State on the Committee that this is in line with the European Directive in this area. I would say that I know a lot of directives, I will only point out one thing, the HACCP system, which has a whole Europe, but as strict a HACCP system as we have in Slovenia, has no place in Europe. And so strict means expensive. Today, we know what it means to be the most loved one in Europe. So we know where our competitiveness is in this area. Also, when we pour open wine, we complicate and irritate business activity. The law clearly protects large vineyards. In my opinion, the law must be fair to all, whether the vinegrower has come a hundred thousand litres of wine or has come five thousand liters of wine. The conditions must be the same. This will severely limit or significantly reduce the spread of wine growing in Slovenia. They'll stay the biggest. Then it will also be easier for foreign competition not to say destroy Slovenian wine competition, because the Slovenian wine market is small in European and on a global scale and with some wagons of wine the Slovenian market can not be said to destroy quite easily. I produce the future, the vision forward, in the case where we will obstruct ourselves, irritate and reduce the competitiveness of Slovenian wine both at home and abroad. Even today, you can buy a bottle of wine at the price of a good euro at major shopping centres, and the question is already here whether we are at home able to bottle wine and buy it for the euro. This is said to be a sensitive market and, in fact, this legislation should also follow the principle of not reducing competition in wine production. This should be a basic guide, which in some ways would also strengthen me not to say either a small or a medium or a large business opportunity in the production of wine. Maybe just for the end, just for the punishments that this amendment is talking about. In my opinion, too, these penalties are too high. Today I have heard quite a few debates that, even with the existing law, these penalties are now somewhat lower. I'd say let's see how this thing worked in practice. I seriously doubt that any penalty has been imposed to that extent. This is said to be always to be seen – I would call this an academic proposal of the law itself, which is then not implemented in practice. Such a law, which is not implemented in practice, is a bad marriage for me. And also in the case of penalties, it should be seen that the law contains such sanctions, such penalties as must, of course, be, in practice, also apply or sanction those who do not properly comply with the law. By law alone, I believe that the dispersion of the production of Slovenian wine will be eliminated, thereby increasing the growth of today's treated Slovenian countryside. Of course, I will also support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which seeks to reduce costs.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr. Bell Lah, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Madam President. Statistics first. Mr Ficko said, first of all, there must be a reason for drafting legislation. The grey economy must be plagued by the sale of wine and therefore by such data. See, we could take a picture of a potato field and figure out how many potatoes were produced in Slovenia and then compare how many potatoes were sold. The difference is, we'd say it's a gray economy. It doesn't work that way because the potatoes eat so much at home. Thus wine is also drunk, and every winegrower has the right to have so much and so much wine for himself, not to sell or pay excise duties. And the official pays the tax to the state by paying, when he has the cadastral income and when he pays the excise duty on the declared crop. The country gets its own. So where's the gray economy? The grey economy is there if the sale on black is not paid. This is the same case as Virant said that we will abolish so many municipalities and save 100 million euros. That's the statistics you said. So much wine is sold and so much is produced, but the difference is the grey economy. That's not true. That's not true. When this law prevents the sale of open wine in guest facilities, we improve the quality of the wine that will come to the table. Here I fully agree with my colleague Brunskola, who has been discussing this. What if the innkeeper is a gardener? He'll pack up, bottle up, so that maybe he can move 20 meters, or he'll have a hard time in his yard getting an inspector, but the law is the law. But he must prepare the wine for the bottle, spend so much money to satisfy the needs of this law. Missed! Another time. Marketing. Madam Secretary said 30 liters can be transported. Yes, without the accompanying document. And wine growers can sell wine at home. That's not true! They can sell it in their own basement, which is registered in the register. It's not like home. Someone's home in Gorenjska, has a registered building in Dolenjska, with an address in the register. Is he really able to sell this wine at home in a block in Jesenica? No! No! He can sell in his registered basement, not at home. In order to bring this wine there and sell it in a block of a mile away – it is not true, only in its own basement, which is registered in the register, can be sold. Now he has to take a man from Gorenjska to the lower hills to sell him wine open. Only in your own basement. And if he gets more than 30 liters, he'll have to give him a document. He can't just take him away, the only thing that gets him drunk there. And if he gets drunk, when he leaves, the police stop him. Otherwise, I don't understand. And by doing so, we are accelerating these small vineyards. That's not true. We're complicated. Why is it not prohibited in Austria, Italy, France to pour open wine in guest facilities? Why is that in Slovenia? Because the lobby of the large vineyards wanted to limit the small vineyards and thus make the quality of the wine sold at the table in the guest facilities worse. Any expert can prove that. But no! We must be more papal than the Pope! Without those two amendments, this law would not even correct what is written in the European Directive so that vines can be planted outside the wine-growing environment for their own purposes. If the opposition had not warned, I must say that I did not read the European directive. They can sell wine from their homeland in Austria and they are in Europe just like we are. Not with us. If they have found an opportunity to do so and that it goes well on the market, to preserve the population of a rural area, why can't we see it in us? Because great vineyarders have created some lobby and must be protected. However, this also increases imports [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Time's up, Mr. Lah. However, Mrs Tanja Strniš, State Secretary, also wanted to make a call.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u64	Thank you very much. The answer to Mrs Brunskole's question, as well as the Member of Lach. If the innkeeper has his own vineyard, they are two different persons – one is a innkeeper, espé, the other is a farmer. As a farmer, wine can be sold in its production facility and wine must be bottled in the inn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u65	Thank you for your explanation, Madam Secretary of State. Article 13 is also to be discussed by Mrs Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u66	Thank you very much. In connection with Mrs State Secretary's reply, I understand her, of course, the answer can be interesting and short, but I really don't imagine, this case, which you specifically mentioned, how, in fact, in a very simple way, this matter is thought this way. If he is a farmer and has open wine in his courts, we know what it means when wine is open, and we know what it means when wine is to be bottled. Wine growers and winemakers can warn us that when controlling and maintaining the quality of wine, there is also a need to be careful in this direction that when wine is bottled, it is also appropriate to do so in this direction in order to possibly add a little more sulphur than it is in open wine. Vinegrowers and winemakers know that. And at this very moment, I wanted to point out that it would be good to think about how those who are wine growers and winemakers and who use it for their own needs use it, how to arrange it, how to be satisfied with the law and at the same time not to complicate the matter for the winegrower, the winemaker, who is also the innkeeper. Above all, because every inn that sells its own wine in a restaurant is obliged to control, to have all the controls, to prove it every time the wine inspector controls. This is not a matter of dispute in this direction. It is true, however, that the quantity of wine sold can also be controlled, we know which indicators, as well as at the Committee's meeting, have already been highlighted and pointed out. I didn't want to get stuck here in this debate, but, above all, I wanted to stress what the hosts are warning me about. And not the guests from home, you know, at least, they just ask me, but the others ask me a lot of times. They're thinking that maybe when we're preparing this marriage here maybe this dictatorship, we've thought about this part a little bit less. That's all I want to warn you. However, I want order to be established in the field of this important sector in the Republic of Slovenia, so I will support the amendment of the Wine Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mrs. Strnisha, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u68	All innkeepers must be in the same position. If they have their own wine, they will put it in a properly marked container that will be originally closed. This will further preserve the wine, and there is no harm in doing so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u69	Thank you very much. While time has passed for some, not for others, we are still in Article 13. Does anyone else want to discuss this article? If not, we move on to Article 14. I am putting to the debate Article 14 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members and the amendment of the coalition groups of Members. Anybody want to talk about it? If not, I'm closing the debate. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, the amendments will be decided today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the ninth item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. At the end of the day, that is, on the other hand, a proposal for a law on amendments to the tax procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I invite the Secretary of State of Mags to take the floor for further explanation. Mitya Movka.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u70	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present! For a moment, if you don't mind. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Tax Procedure Act before you aims to ensure that the tax authority is more effective as a matter of principle. In order to achieve this objective, we propose in the draft law to supplement the arrangements governing the tax assessment, in specific cases, insurance, tax supervision, tax enforcement and criminal sanctions. The proposal complements and amends, in a particular part, the current regulation of the non-provisional income tax. The tax authority may thus determine the subject of a valuation where the taxable person, that is, the natural person, has the means of private consumption, which far exceeds the income that the taxable person has declared. For the tax base thus established, which is equal to the difference between the value of the assets reduced by the liabilities arising from the acquisition of the property, a tax at a rate of 70 % shall be calculated and paid. The dosage procedure may be initiated for one or more calendar years over the last ten years. The specificity of the tax administration of unannounced revenue is also demonstrated in terms of the occurrence of a tax liability. The source and type of unannounced income are not known and the tax authority does not determine which tax type the taxable person did not declare and pay, nor does it determine when to forecast them. In our opinion, it is appropriate that non-compliance is taxed at a higher rate if the taxpayer is not able to remedy irregularities and if these options are not used and the obligations are still being met. This change in the amount of taxation also establishes a constitutional principle of equality between those who respect the rule of law and those who violate it. Following the proposed arrangements, the tax authority will no longer have to hold a final discussion with the taxable person, but still have to provide the taxable person with information on all the relevant facts and evidence carried out in the inspection. The bill also extends the range of persons who are married for payment of a tax debt, in particular where the taxable person’s assets were obtained free of charge or at a price lower than the market price, in the year or after the year in which the tax obligation arose. We, as proponents of the law, find that taxpayers transfer assets to other persons in different ways and thus prevent recovery of obligations, which we wish to sanction with this amendment. With a view to effective enforcement, the provisions governing public auctions and the sale of entrants by the collection of tenders shall be amended. A new institute is also proposed, namely the retention of obsolescence, which means that obstacles which are legal or factual in nature do not lead to a deadline for tax enforcement. In order to deter tax infringements, the provisions governing tax and tax infringements of individuals also change. The Government proposes to the National Assembly to support the proposal for a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u71	Thank you very much, Mr. Mavko. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report, I give the floor to President Starman.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u72	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Nice hello to you all! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy shall be held at its 23rd session, on 4. 12. 2013 was treated as a parent labour body by the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act submitted to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which, in the context of the specific comments on Article 2, points out that when the application of a solution is moved to a standalone provision to simultaneously amend the current regulation in such a way as to change the length of the period for which the tax procedure may be introduced, while also increasing the tax rate, thus opening up the issue of the compatibility of such a solution with the Constitution. In addition, the Legislative and Legal Service makes specific comments to Articles 5, 8, 10, 12 and 19 of the Law. The Committee was given an opinion by the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance, which supports the proposal of the law. There are qualified candidates within the time limit, which is 28. 11. On the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the amendments of the Coalition Group have been tabled by Articles 2, 5, 6, 9, 10, 13, 19 to the title of the final provision and the amendment to the new Article 25a of the Act. Representatives of the Ministry of Finance, representative of the Legal and Legislative Service and representative of the Chamber of Tax Advisors of Slovenia attended the meeting. Opinion on the amendment of the law by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or a representative, Minister of Finance, you have already heard. We have discussed a lot on the Committee in the light of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service on Article 2 of the bill, which adds a new Article 68. The debate drew attention to and raised concerns about the basic legal security of the debtors, retroactivity and the newly introduced 70% taxation as a penalty. After a lengthy discussion, the Committee adopted all amendments to the coalition groups, namely Articles 2, 5, 6, 9, 10, 13 and 19, to the title of the final provision and the amendment to the new Article 25a of the legislative proposal. Following the vote on the amendments, the Committee voted jointly and adopted, in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes all the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. We propose that the National Assembly also adopt such a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. Starman, Chairman of the Board. Since the assembly has already held a general debate on the draft law at its 18th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. Since the amendments to the amended proposal have not been tabled, we conclude the second reading and inform you that the vote on the draft law in accordance with the timing of the meeting will take place today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 9th agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the bill on payment services for budget users. The draft law was submitted by the Government for consideration by the assembly and I once again invite the State Secretary of Mags. The bait for the introductory explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. If you allow, also a presentation of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the provision of payment services to budgetary users. The bill before you today provides additional systemically for the new services provided to budget users by the Slovenian Public Payments Authority. With this bill, we would like in particular to follow the modernisation of such services in the Republic of Slovenia, namely the further development of electronic commerce in accordance with guidelines and recommendations elsewhere in the European Union. This aims to reduce costs, rationalise business, remove administrative and other barriers, and promote the efficiency, efficiency and effectiveness of the public and private sectors in the context of electronic commerce. The proposed amendment of the law provides for the introduction of a mandatory proposal for electronic invoices to be made to budgetary users and, at the same time, the introduction of an online payment system for the services of budgetary users. Both e-invoices and online payments have received the most debate in the past in the context of the consideration of this law, and perhaps a little more about these two elements of the bill. Budget users will have to receive new accounts and accompanying documents exclusively in electronic form. This requirement will have to be adapted by all service providers and suppliers of goods operating with budgetary users. In doing so, it is important to be aware that it is possible for all operators to have a relatively long transitional period of one year in which such an obligation to issue e-invoices will enter into force. With regard to e-accounts, we estimate that the amendment of the law to budgetary users and economic operators will not result in substantial additional costs, which must be justified by several factors. Firstly, the possibility of free use of specific information and communication infrastructure and software has already been provided to budget users by the Public Payments Authority. The e-invoicing system operates on the principle of transparency and openness, which means that it can include all payment service providers concerned, data processing service providers and issuers and e-invoice recipients. At the same time, we have also coordinated these solutions in several circles with representatives of the economy and the banking sector, so that the negative effects of this law can be absorbed in advance. Let me say here that with this proposal we want to follow those most developed EU Member States, in particular I would point out two, Denmark and Austria, which already have an obligation to deal exclusively with e-accounts in their legislation. In this way, we believe that equal treatment of all economic operators cooperating with budgetary users and equal treatment of tenderers will be ensured, in accordance with the fundamental principles governing public procurement and the prevention of restrictions on competition. We have also taken into account the principle of transparency, openness and accessibility of services in the provisions governing the system of online payments. This system allows payment cards and credit cards or via an online banking system or mobile phone system to provide budget users to their customers via their online portals. These web portals are then linked to the communication infrastructure provided by the Public Payments Authority. This in practice means that instead of thousands of individual public contracts and contracts between budgetary users for these services, only one contract between the Public Payments Authority will be concluded [[...]] [[a sign for the end.]] and banks. [[...]] From the point of view of the law, let me mention only the reference to critical infrastructure, which must also be provided at the time of the sentence, so we propose to support the proposal of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u75	Thank you very much, Mr. Mavko. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the proposal to be a parent labour force. Mr Starman, the chairman of the committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u76	Thank you so much for saying that again, Madam Vice President. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy shall be held at its 23rd session. 12. 2013 as a parent working body has considered the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the provision of payment services to budgetary users submitted by the Government in the procedure or for consideration and adoption. We have received an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service, which made specific comments to the individual Article of the bill, namely Articles 1, 4, 5, 8, 10, 15, 19, 22 and 25. We have also received the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance of 2. 12. which supported the proposal of the law. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendments were tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups on Articles 2, 4, 5, 8, 10, 15, 19, 22 and 25 of the proposal. Representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Legal and Legislative Service attended the meetings. The representative of the Ministry of Finance explained the reasons for amending and supplementing the law on the provision of payment services to budgetary users, which we have just heard. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service explained that their comments were duly taken into account in the amendments tabled. In particular, members of the Committee from opposition parliamentary groups raised the issue of the introduction of mandatory electronic accounts and a short one-year transitional period and related costs, in particular the suspension of information technology. They were also interested in the regulation of the register of budgetary users and the related use of very precise personal data. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee has also considered and adopted amendments to the parliamentary groups of the coalition. Subsequently, in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all articles of the draft law and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. We propose that the amended bill also be approved by the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u77	Thank you very much, Mr. Starman. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. On behalf of the Group of the National Gazette, Mrs Kristina Valenčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u78	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Secretary of State with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! The new Act on the provision of payment services to budgetary users, inter alia, introduces a solution that will enable economic operators involved in administrative and judicial proceedings or using other public sector services to provide simple and modern ways of non-cash payment of services. e-business will also relieve the administrative and financial burden on suppliers of goods and service providers operating in the public sector. The latter will create tangible savings that would otherwise come from the issue, sending and storing of accounts, on the basis of the solutions brought by these novels. We will therefore support the proposed amendments in the Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u79	Thank you very much, Mrs. Valenčich. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, there will be no presentation of the position. The next is the Group of the Democratic Party of the Retired and there is no position. At the moment, Mrs Mirjam Bon Klanjšček is ready to present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Your Honors are here! A new law on the provision of payment services to budgetary users sets out the new tasks and services of the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for public payments. Individual provisions are being amended or supplemented, for which in the implementation of the Law on the provision of payment services to budgetary users in practice it has proved necessary to regulate them in more detail. The main objective of the new law is to ensure the further development of secure electronic commerce in line with the European Commission's guidelines and recommendations and to rationalise business and reduce the costs of the public and private sector. The set of data to be kept in the register of budgetary users should be harmonised. A mandatory electronic account is introduced in the public administration and the private sector is encouraged to issue electronic accounts. The key novelties of the bill are: the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for Public Payments, hereinafter referred to as the UJP, also provides a number of other services and specific professional tasks for direct and indirect users of state and municipal budgets, the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia, the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance of Slovenia and for the budgets and managers of the single treasury account system and supervisors of public financial revenues, and the text of the law is complemented accordingly. The urgent tasks of the UJP shall be laid down, which shall also be carried out at the time of the sentence. In view of the particular importance of the continued and safe provision of payment services, the implementation of state and municipal budgets, the operation of the single treasury account system and the stability of the financial operation of the Republic of Slovenia, the proposal also provides for the competence of the UJP to ensure and care for the management, maintenance and development of independent information and communication infrastructure and specific information systems for the provision of tasks and services. The set of data to be selected and maintained by the UJP in the register of budgetary users shall be supplemented and the obligations of the administrators of the single account system relating to the communication of the data necessary for the entry into the register or deletion from the register of budgetary users shall be further regulated. In addition, the opening of individual dedicated transaction accounts with Banka Slovenije is further regulated for the separate management of assets and special accounts with zero status, which can be opened by budgetary users to business banks for the purpose of raising or depositing domestic and foreign cash and opening accounts abroad for diplomatic and consular representations of the Republic of Slovenia. In addition, it is envisaged to introduce mandatory electronic invoices for budgetary users and to establish an online payment system for the services of budgetary users. The draft law also adequately complements the criminal provisions and defines the power of the criminal authority to impose a fine at any rate within the range prescribed in Article 31 of the Act in a rapid infringement procedure. We support these solutions in the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, so we will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u81	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mrs Romana Tomc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u82	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. All in attendance have a nice greeting! There is another law before us that does not give us much attention. This is also evident from the views of the groups of Members, but this is not exactly the case in our view. For the law brings essential substantive changes and interventions to our payment system and does not simply mean compliance with European legislation, as the bill's proposal initially said. That's the government. Let me start by reminding everyone that this is the way in which payment services are regulated, as we have in Slovenia, to escape in Europe, so our arrangement is significantly different from that of everyone else. The law is supposed to be, as it is said, a completely technical law to regulate payment services for budgetary users, but it is much more than that. There are many changes ahead of us today. In fact, I would focus mainly on three of us who are most disturbed. The proposed amendments introduce some new services to be provided by the Public Payments Authority, in addition to those already provided by the huge amount. Thus, it will be possible to pay cashless payments, such as court fees and administrative fees, fines for offences. This is perfectly all right, but let's say you buy tickets for theatre, fishing, museums to buy literature and so on. We believe that the UJP will somehow go beyond the purpose for which it has in fact been established and significantly affected by other economic operators. The other thing that really bothers us is that the proposed amendments complement the set of data processed by the Public Payments Authority in the management of the register of budgetary users. The key novelty is to collect additional personal data on the representatives of the budgetary user, with the UJP not only being able to collect, but also, of course, to process, this data. However, since such data is already being collected in the context of the Apes, we are rightly asked why, however, for what purposes the UJP will need this additional information and how it will process it if it emphasises that changes to this law should take place primarily in order to make payment traffic more efficient and faster. Thirdly, which we have the most concerns about, this novelty, however, has been defined by some as extremely positive, which will bring substantial savings to both the public sector and the economy. This is a shift to mandatory use of electronic accounts and accompanying documents in the public sector. This requirement must be adapted within one year to all legal and natural persons providing services or supplying goods to budgetary users. This means, in practice, that no one who does not issue an account and accompanying documents in electronic form will be able to deal with the public sector. No one will be able to sign up for public procurement if they do not comply with these conditions. I assess or in our Group of Members we estimate that this will lead to a number of setbacks for the economy. We have therefore also proposed, in the context of the Committee's debate, that a transitional period should be set in which accounts could be issued in both ways. This is done either in paper or in electronic form. Unfortunately, this proposal has not been adopted and I believe that this will bring many problems in the future and that we will also be able to face the situation when the Government brings the proposal to the National Assembly to extend this transitional period. There's something else I'd like to point out. The proposers stress that all additional services to the UJP are not expected to have any financial implications. Of course, we don't think so. If the UJP already has sufficient staff today, with sufficient space and adequate information support, we are, of course, rightly asking ourselves whether the operation of the UJP is rational at this time. All of these concerns in the SDS Group cannot be supported by this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u83	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 9th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to seven. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments to the International Law on International Protection under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the representative of Jerk Čehovin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u84	Thanks to both the vice presidents. Nice greetings to everyone else! The parental committee is at the 17th session of the 4th. 12. examined the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on International Protection, submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government and published on the website of the National Assembly in the Rapporteur of 7.10.2013. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the State Council, the opinion of the Ombudsman and the letter of Amnesty International Slovenia, the Slovenian Philanthropy, the Peace Institute, the Jesuit Association for Refugees of Slovenia and the PIC Non-Governmental Organisations Legal Information Centre. The representative of the proposed State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior, Boštjan Šefić, said in a supplementary explanation that the proposed law was the result of a broad debate and consultation, and most of the substantive comments of NGOs were also taken into account. The draft law brings into the national legal order the provisions of Directive 2011 95EU which lays down the substantive conditions for the recognition of international protection and the level of rights to be granted by the State to persons with recognised international protection. The proposal for a law also means harmonisation with the proposed amendment to the Aliens Act, in which a new association of persons with recognised international protection will take place, as well as in the field of the implementation of the procedures under Regulation 2003 343EC, the so-called Dublin Regulation, and the rejection of the application for the determination of the competence of the other State of withdrawal. The representative of the legislative and legal service, Katarina Kralj, said that the amendments tabled by the coalition groups followed mainly the comments made in their written legal opinion. It reiterated the legal system's warnings that the proposal for a law on international protection removes the terms and procedures of the family of persons with recognised international protection, the definition of family members, beneficiaries and the majority of their rights, on the grounds that this de lege ferret will be governed by the Aliens Act, which is not used in principle for persons with recognised international protection. The representative of the National Council of State Council, Councillor Rajko Fajt, said that the State Council supports the bill. In her presentation of the written opinion, Ms Marzel, Deputy Ombudsman, stressed that in the Law on International Protection it would be necessary to reintroduce free legal aid at the first stage and the possibility of filing an application for international protection at diplomatic and consular offices of the Republic of Slovenia. It further raised concerns about the procedure for the extension of subsidiary protection as it is proposed that only the existence of those reasons for which subsidiary protection has been granted may be assessed in this procedure. In their view, in terms of the economy of the rights already acquired and the right to an effective remedy, it would be reasonable to assess all the reasons given by the applicant in the request, as well as those which arose later. On behalf of the five non-governmental organisations that addressed the Committee by letter, Mr Miha Nabergoj presented an initiative to amend the extended subsidiary protection institution in accordance with the principle of cost-effectiveness and the right to an effective remedy, in order to verify in this procedure the existence of all grounds for extending subsidiary protection, in addition to those on which international protection was granted to persons, including others on the basis of which it could be entitled to subsidiary protection. Non-governmental organisations also oppose the transfer of the Institute of Association with the Family from the Law on International Protection to the Law on Foreigners. The representative of the applicant further explained that the amendment of the Foreigners Act was prepared in a very short time and put into the legislative procedure and was also extended to include the scope of eligible family members, with whom a person with recognised international protection could be combined, since in this part persons with recognised international protection are being compared with other third-country nationals. With regard to the reintroduction of the possibility of filing an application for international protection at diplomatic and consular offices, he said that our diplomatic and consular network is currently not allowing this. With regard to the invitation to tender for interpreters, he explained that this possibility exists, but it is not mandatory, thus facilitating the acquisition of interpreters for all languages that are very specific and are difficult to obtain for them. It has ensured that interpreters check in accordance with their options to ensure adequate safety and interpretation. The Committee adopted, without discussion, the amendments of the parliamentary groups Positive Slovenia, the Social Democrats, the Civil Gazette and DeSUS to Articles 2, 14, 23, 29, 30, 33, 34, 38 and 39. The Committee shall be in accordance with [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly voted on all articles of the draft law and adopted them. [[…]] In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law in which the amendments adopted are incorporated is prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u85	Thank you very much, Mr. Chehovin. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. I give the floor to Mrs Kristina Valenčič, Parliamentary Group of the National List.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Have a nice hello again! Every minute, eight people around the world must leave everything behind to escape war, persecution, or intimidation. Many refugees must decide between bad and worse. Slovenia, as a signatory to the Geneva Convention and a member of the European Union, is obliged to provide international protection to such individuals. According to a survey by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees for Central Europe, Slovenia has significantly fewer asylum seekers than any other Central European country and the lowest percentage of recognised refugee status. Most asylum seekers seeking safe havens come from Afghanistan, Georgia, Iraq, Pakistan, Serbia and Turkey. Slovenia has already provided such persons with an effective asylum system. An asylum system that operates quickly and effectively, which is fair, and which allows any asylum applicant who really needs international protection to be granted refugee status. Such a system also prevents those who do not need such protection from benefiting from the system. With the proposed amendments to the amendment of the Law on International Protection, we transpose into the Slovenian legal order a European directive setting out the substantive conditions for the recognition of international protection and the level of rights that the State must grant to persons with recognised international protection. The amendments thus relate to the definition of vulnerable categories of persons with special needs, family members, protection entities and specific social groups, the definition of internal protection itself, the minimum time-limit for the duration of subsidiary protection. The novelty is also aligned with the proposed amendments to the Law on Foreigners. In the Civil Gazette, we are aware that no one is a fugitive of his own free will, and that is why each country must offer all the necessary protection to this most vulnerable group of persons. Slovenia already has this area legally regulated and through its institutions it provides international protection seekers, a high level of legal and social assistance. We are confident that the proposed amendments will have a positive impact on the effectiveness of the procedure for granting international protection, so we will support the proposal for a new law. Today we mark the International Day of Migrants. In Slovenia every 5 inhabitants are immigrants. Unfortunately, Slovenia is still a rather homogeneous community, which still divides people into ours and ours. There is still a fear that our society would become less secure with immigrants in order to lose identity and our culture. Slovenia must strive to create better economic and social conditions so that emigration, which has become a growing trend lately, does not remain the only option for those seeking economic and social security, the right and respect for human dignity. I therefore expect the Government to make an additional effort in the coming year to create opportunities and opportunities for new jobs and new jobs.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u87	Thank you very much, Mrs. Kristina Valenčich. Ms Jasmina Opec will present her position on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u88	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! Like many other laws, the proposed amendment of the Law on International Protection into the Slovenian legal order transposes the provisions of the European Directives, in this case Directive 2011/95, which lays down the substantive conditions for the recognition of international protection and the level of rights to be guaranteed by the State to persons with recognised international protection. The novelty thus regulates the reasons and procedure for the termination and withdrawal of the status of international protection and redefines certain conditions for the operation of interpreters in procedures for the recognition of international protection. With regard to family reunification procedures, which are governed by the Aliens Act, which is still in preparation, the provisions governing accommodation in the integration house are also being amended. Accommodation in an integration house shall also be provided to family members of a person with recognised international protection who have obtained a residence permit based on the right to family reunification, in accordance with the Aliens Act, provided that a person with recognised international protection still has the right to stay in an integration house. The proposal also allows a person with recognised international protection to receive a financial compensation for private accommodation also for family members to join the family under the Aliens Act. Thus, the International Protection Act completely deletes those contents and is transposed into the Aliens Act, which is not, in principle, applicable to persons with recognised international protection. With regard to the latter in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we draw attention to the concerns raised by the Law-Legal Service, namely that such an approach undermines the transparency and consistency of the rule of law, so both legislative proposals, both the amendment of the Law on International Protection and the amendment of the Law on Foreigners, should be implemented simultaneously. The comments of non-governmental organisations and the Ombudsman on the subsidiary protection procedure would also be reconsidered. Nevertheless, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we estimate that the proposed amendments envisaged in the amendment to the Law on International Protection are appropriate, since they harmonise our legal order for European Union legislation, so we do not intend to oppose them. We hope, however, that we will soon get to the table also the amendment to the Foreigners Act, with which the transposition of that legislation will be completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u89	Thank you very much, Mrs. Jasmine Opec. On behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, there will be no position. Mr Jerko Čehovin, you are next in line to present the position of the Positive Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u90	Thanks again for saying that. Dear Members and Members, Mr Secretary of State! The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on International Protection brings to national legal order the provisions of the EU Directive which lays down the substantive conditions for the recognition of international protection and the level of rights to be granted by the State to persons with recognised international protection. The proposal therefore interferes with the definition of vulnerable categories of persons with special needs, the definition of family members, protection entities and specific social groups, the definition of the definition of internal protection, the minimum time-limit for the duration of subsidiary protection and the definition of information to persons with recognised international protection. Since this is a very important and particularly sensitive area, we are pleased that the proposal for a law has been the subject of a broad debate and that only one non-governmental organisation comment relating to the extension of subsidiary protection has been ignored. In Positive Slovenia, we have advocated that this last comment, which remained open, should also be taken into account, but in the end, after a broad explanation by the applicants, it has been shown that the existing law in such cases already allows for the possibility of re-application of the application for subsidiary protection and therefore there is no need for the existing regulation to change in this part of the substance. The draft law also regulates, inter alia, more uniformly and comprehensively, the reasons and the procedure for terminating and withdrawing the status of international protection, which have now been broken down into different chapters of the law. In the context of the consideration of the amendment, some concerns have also been raised concerning the integration of the family for persons with recognised international protection, which will be redefined in the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Foreigners, which has not yet been incorporated into the legislative procedure. In this part of Positive Slovenia, we expect the proposer to take into account the comments made by the professional public in the preparation of this law, and to extend the scope of the right and protection of foreign persons to the same extent compared with the Law on Foreigners, or to extend the scope of the eligible family members with whom a person with recognised international protection can be protected. We will therefore follow closely the preparation of the New Testament on Foreigners. We will support the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on International Protection that we are considering today in Positive Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u91	Thank you very much, Mr. Chehovin. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor on behalf of the Polish Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u92	Madam President, Your Honor, Your Honor! We have before us the amendment to the Law on International Protection, which transposes into the Slovenian legal order directives of the European Union which lay down the substantive conditions for the recognition of international protection and the level of rights that the State must grant to persons with recognised international protection. The reasons and procedure for terminating and withdrawing the status of international protection, which are now included in different chapters of the law, are also fully regulated. The amendment makes it clearer to define the terms of the interpreter with which the relevant contract is concluded. However, the implementation of the invitation to tender is no longer mandatory in view of the specificity of the needs for international protection procedures. With the amendment of the Law on International Protection, we are meeting for the second time in two years in the current mandate of the National Assembly. There is certainly reason to amend the provisions which go in the direction of harmonisation of the provisions of the law on international protection with the rules of the European Union governing migration. However, it is not possible to understand the work in which the question of the consistency of the current government's approach, which aligns the Law on International Protection with the envisaged amendment of the Law on Foreigners, which is not even submitted. In this part, it intervenes in the area of pooling persons with recognised international protection, which raises the issue of legal certainty as a result of such an approach by the current government. That such standardisation undermines the transparency and consistency of the rule of law, which is controversial in terms of legal certainty and the protection of human rights, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly also pointed out in its opinion. It would be more appropriate to ensure the co-implementation of the Law on International Protection and the novelties of the Law on Foreigners. The proposal to reintroduce free legal aid at the first stage was made on the home working body. With regard to this issue in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we stress that the solution introduced in the latest amendment to the Law on International Protection does not make the situation of applicants for international protection any worse, as they have the legal assistance provided to non-governmental organisations in the first stage of the procedures that are present in the asylum home every day. Such legal advice is easier and more accessible for applicants, which is essential in international protection procedures. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will not oppose any of the above-mentioned draft law on international protection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u93	Thank you very much, Mr Jerovšek. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u94	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! Migration is part of the modern world. Fortunately, some have decided on migration in such a way that all legal documents are regulated and not forced into this situation. However, some people opt for migration because of a wide variety of unacceptable living conditions, and informed citizens and citizens advocate the fact that those who have not been found guilty in impossible living conditions need to be able to make the way as easy as possible to regulate their status. Slovenia experienced migration either economically or politically during the transition from the 19th to the 20th century, in the middle of the 20th century. We are also facing migration at this time. Finally, the idea of the movement of people, goods and services is integrated into the idea of the European Union. It is interesting, however, that Slovenia is not often a target country from the point of view of migration, but rather a transit country. Let me say a few examples of how the data on how many people have applied for the status and how many have established the status. The biggest demands were in 2000 and 9244. And if you look at the recognition of asylum, only 11. The most recognised status is in 2004. At the time, there were 1,208 applications, but this status was 39. Looking at the latest data, 257 applications were submitted by the end of October and 33 people were favoured. Let us now see how the law on international protection provides for forms of international protection. These are two, refugee status and subsidiary protection. The refugee status shall be recognised to a person who shows, on a reasoned and credible basis, that he is at risk in the home country of race, religion, nationality, political belief or belonging to a specific social group. The decision on the recognition of refugee status from the date of service shall also apply as a permanent residence permit in the Republic of Slovenia. However, subsidiary protection shall be granted to a person who does not fulfil the conditions for recognition of refugee status, but shall show justified and credible reasons for causing serious harm to him when returning to his country of origin, such as the threat of death or even the execution, torture or inhuman or degrading treatment. We also recognise subsidiary protection due to a serious and individual threat to the life or freedom of the applicant, due to arbitrary violence in situations of international or internal armed conflict in the country of origin. The decision to grant subsidiary protection from the date of service shall also apply as a temporary residence permit in the Republic of Slovenia for the duration of that protection. The data on the countries from which the applicants come from were provided by a colleague from the Civil Gazette. However, let me point out one more thing: that, as soon as possible, a foreigner must express his intention to apply for international protection from entering the Republic of Slovenia to any State authority or body of the local self-government. The procedure followed, in which the police determined his identity, the way in which he came to the Republic of Slovenia, and handed him over to an asylum home where a foreigner applied for international protection. A foreigner shall be duly informed of the procedure and rights in the language he understands before receiving an application for international protection. The acceptance of an application for international protection shall also take place in the presence of an interpreter or interpreter. I have said all this in order to draw attention to two key points which are essential when applying for international protection. This is the right to free legal aid and the right to interpretation. It is therefore necessary to deal with both of them with due diligence. And here in the Group of Social Democrats, we are pleased to hear comments from civil society in particular. We will support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u95	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended bill have not been tabled, we conclude with a second reading of the bill. The vote will take place today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 9th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to nine. At the end of the day, that is, on the other hand, a proposal for a law on amendments to the laws on the protection of cultural heritage. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I don't see a government representative further explaining the proposal, so I'm giving the word mags. Majdi Potrat, president of the Committee on Culture as a parent working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u96	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. The Committee on Culture considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on protection of cultural heritage at its sixth regular meeting on 4 December. The draft law was examined by the Legislative and Legal Service from a legislative point of view and commented on Article 28. The draft law was also addressed by the Commission of the State Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport. The opinion of this body was presented by Dr. Zoran Christmas. In support of this proposal, the law highlighted as an important possibility the proposed possibility of awarding fair finders of archaeological remains, and the Commission also considered that the State must ensure the protection and preservation of cultural heritage while ensuring the effectiveness and usefulness of all procedures, from determining the finding for cultural heritage and its recording to controlling all legal and professional actions relating to a particular cultural heritage. The draft law also considered the Commission for National Communities as an interested working body and found that Article 2 of the bill did not sufficiently highlight and take into account the constitutional situation of indigenous national communities, which is often reflected in practice in the insufficient consideration of the situation of the two indigenous national communities in the national mixed environment. It was also pointed out that in the national mixed area as a fundamental problem, it should also be seen as one of the fundamental elements of the urgent identity and at the same time the cultural diversity of the Republic of Slovenia, and therefore the heritage of these two national communities should be appropriately used in the proposal for a law. During the course of business, amendments to the coalition were tabled to 22 members and to 4 members of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, and two opinions were forwarded to the local communities, the Municipality of Ljubljana and the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia. Minister Uroš Grilc said that the Law on the Protection of the Cultural Heritage, which entered into force in March 2008, had already been subject to more urgent changes and additions, and this time the additions or amendments eliminated the ambiguities of individual definitions, introduced new definitions and amendments to the internal conformity of the law, introduced additions to the provisions on the declaration of monuments, complemented the provisions on the classification of national wealth, introduced awards to random owners of archaeological remains of particular importance, provided for a more transparent delimitation of competence in the issuance of different types of consents, complemented the provisions concerning the implementation of research, the transfer of the centre of funding of preliminary archaeological research from the State budget, intervened in the field of professional regulation, supplemented procedures and inspection measures and regulated transitional provisions relating to the protection of non-registration sites. The legislative and legal service explained that most of the comments were taken into account in the amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups. A longer discussion of the members and members of the Committee followed. The Minister further explained the acceptability or inadmissibility of the comments. The Committee adopted amendments to the coalition parliamentary groups, did not adopt two amendments to the SDS, two amendments became irrelevant and drafted its amendment to Article 21. All the amendments adopted are included in the amended bill. I propose an updated bill for adoption at the plenary session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group and Mr Janez Ribič have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u98	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. The National Assembly. Dear Members and Members! The adoption of these amendments to the law is intended to remedy the shortcomings identified in the implementation of the law. We are afraid that this is not the case, as both the professional and the interested public estimate that there are different interpretations of the scope and the way in which ownership is exercised. The Constitutional Court has already dealt with ways of interfering with property rights. In the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that the relations between the State and the owner of all the findings found to be cultural heritage in its territory and the owners of private collections are not sufficiently clearly defined. We believe that, as with many other laws, there will be a conflict of interests between national and private. And this is not good, although changes and additions to the law eliminate certain uncertainties of certain definitions and introduce new ones, among other things the definition of national wealth is complemented. The amendments are also intended to fill the gap regarding state ownership of archaeological excavations in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. It complements the definition of national wealth and introduces changes in the declaration of monuments. It also introduces the possibility of awarding fair finders of archaeological residues and establishes a procedure to determine the originator's eligibility to the prize and its height. This seems to us to be an important opportunity to reward honest finders of the archaeological remnants. In view of international experience, such a way of stimulating inventors should contribute positively to the affection and trust of fellow citizens and to increasing awareness of the need to preserve cultural heritage. Trust is so much more important because we are living in a time of crisis of values. The law is intended to further delimit the powers to issue different types of consent and to remove administrative barriers. With changes in the law, archeological lovers will no longer need university education to obtain permission. The amendment of the law also entails changes in the financing and abolition of cultural heritage traders at the Ministry. Amendments to the law also provide that owners of real estate cultural heritage should be informed of their entry into the register by public publication of the register on the world web. In the Slovenian People's Party, we also support the proposal for a law because we are aware that the State must ensure the protection and preservation of cultural heritage, while ensuring the effectiveness and usefulness of all procedures from the determination of the cultural heritage finding and its recording to the control of all legal and professional actions relating to a particular cultural heritage. This is urgent, because we know that sometimes it didn't. However, when amendments are adopted, it would be wise to make a commitment not to open ideological topics on the basis of the articles of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u99	Thank you very much, Mr. Fish. The word is given by Marjana Kotnik Popotat on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u100	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and honourable Members! This year we celebrate the 100th anniversary of organised protection of cultural heritage in Slovenia. 100 years ago, Dr France Stele performed his service as a country conservator for Kranjska, of course in the context of the decentralisation of the Vienna Central Commission for the Protection of Monuments. This is how the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage comes at the right time, although it is only the most urgent changes that address the most pressing problems with the implementation of the law and the provision of public interest. The novel will provide the necessary basis for more concrete changes, which, according to the Minister of Culture, will include new solutions in the area of protection of heritage in the space, the procedure for granting permits for the removal of heritage and the organisation of the operation of museums. During the discussion of the proposal at the meeting of the parent working body, it was pointed out that the area of protection of cultural heritage in the 2014 and 2015 budgets was subject to a large financial cut and, therefore, with a view to improving the situation in the parliamentary procedure, a law on the provision of funds for certain urgent programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in culture was introduced. In doing so, I would like to stress in particular that in the DeSUS Group we are aware of the importance of the protection of cultural heritage. Cultural heritage promotes social integration, ensures a sense of identity and encourages tolerance and respect for others in the diversity. Heritage is an important driver of sustainable development and cultural tourism, from environmental protection, rural reconstruction and development to the cultural aspects of space and its development. However, in the DeSUS Group, we do not think that it is appropriate to adopt such a law at any given time. The current financial situation dictates a deliberate use of budgetary resources and the implementation of programmes and projects according to priorities. Members and Members of the DeSUS Group will be supported by the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Member of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities, Dr László Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u102	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage was, according to the applicant, submitted to the procedure in order to achieve greater operationality of the provisions of the law. The proposal removes certain ambiguities of individual definitions and also introduces some new interpretations. Among other things, additions to the provisions on the declaration of monuments and the classification of monuments into national wealth are introduced. Prizes are also offered to random finders of archaeological remnants of particular importance, as well as certain corrections on transparency and effectiveness in financing archaeological research and some other changes. We have also considered the bill at a meeting of the Commission for National Communities, because the competent organisations of indigenous national communities keep reminding us of the shortcomings and inconsistencies in this area from the point of view of those communities. In particular, it should be pointed out that the specificity of the movable and immovable heritage in the national mixed areas resulting from the continued stay or residence of indigenous national communities in that territory is often overlooked or inconsistently defined in the identification of cultural monuments. In many cases, there is also inadequate generalisation, which is why the specificity of cultural heritage is not properly defined and can be seen from the point of view of specific elements of national communities. Unfortunately, this unfortunate and also has a negative impact on our view of the controversial change in cultural landscapes, architecture and other elements of movable and immovable heritage, which is why it is also a direct problem with respect to the preservation of the national identity of indigenous national communities. Recognizing that the proposal for a law which, according to the applicant, is only the first round of envisaged changes in this area, offers only the mentioned possibilities for resolving the content issues in question, since not all the articles of the law are open, we have decided in our parliamentary group and on the Commission for National Communities to draw attention to the problems in question, and this is what we wanted to achieve with the amendment of the 9th point of the proposed first paragraph of Article 3 of the Act in order to provide a basis for possible later more substantial legal changes. In this regard, we have also held several discussions and coordinations with the competent Ministry of Culture, and I must point out that we have largely agreed in a substantive sense. Unfortunately, however, the view prevailed that our amendment did not fall within the context of the proposed amendment to the law. It is true that an amendment was tabled by the coalition at the pre-decision stage of the parent's working body meeting, which changed the concept of the text and the form of the proposed article 2 relating to the amendment of Article 3 of the current law. As the amendment was adopted, our amendment became irrelevant. Let me conclude by concluding that, although the content of the amendment of the law agrees in most of the proposed content, but by drawing attention to the problems mentioned from the point of view of the national communities I have mentioned and, above all, by desiring that the content of the law in the near future is being upgraded in this direction, we will not vote in favour of the proposed amendments to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u103	Thank you very much, Dr. László Göncz. On behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, Positive Slovenia shall have the floor of Mr Mitja Meršol.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Greetings to the Secretary of State or the troikas of culture, colleagues, colleagues! The protection of cultural heritage is three important concepts, not to say even the hymnic notions of values, to which also ethnicity is added and thus the increase of cultural diversity in Slovenia, and this is governed by the law or proposal of the law complements with its operational work, so that protection is provided from that valuable concept by a verb of protection that is supposed to be more operational in terms of cultural heritage. I think it is particularly important to stress here that this cultural heritage has indeed been added to the cultural heritage of minority ethnic communities and old people who add this value and thereby increase our cultural diversity, which is also in fact in line with the declarations adopted at the beginning of this millennium in the United Nations, the Council of Europe and other international declarations. What is important in this new law is also the touching of what has already been mentioned several times today, the award for the accidental detection of archaeological findings. But it is a matter of randomness, not of intended detection, and the amendment of the law is quite clear and defined. As regards the definitions themselves, which are also one of the core activities of this novel, the definition of the amount, entry, export, import of cultural values and heritage, the proposal of the law takes these definitions so that it also compares them in proportion and puts them also in the customs legislation and legislation on our internal market, so that there is also much to be done here. As far as the financing of pre-archaeological research is concerned, the difficulty now lies in the amendment of the law in some way: first think about it and then dig. It is said that, first of all, it is necessary to really finance and increase the burden of funding for the assessment and analysis of what needs to be dug up and then to start digging. Also with regard to the regulation of professions and all possible names and professionals in this area, the proposal for a law is quite consistent with the 2005 EU Directive, so that a step forward is also taken in this regard. It is also the regulation of the inspection of the implementation or operation of the protection of cultural heritage. In this sense, if I listed just a few of these elements of the bill in general, we in the Positive Slovenia Group are convinced that we support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u105	Thank you very much, Mr. Mershol. On behalf of the SDS Group, Mrs Janja Attack has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u106	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Welcome from the Ministry of Culture, colleagues and colleagues! Like the previous law, this also eliminates some inconsistencies with individual definitions and introduces the necessary new ones. Part concerning State ownership of finds from archaeological excavations in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia is added. The proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage exacerbates the responsibility of voluntary owners, since the guarantor or owner must be aware of his duties. It should be pointed out that the law proposes the possibility of awarding fair finders of archaeological remains and provides for a procedure to determine the originator's eligibility to the prize and its level, which would not mean a greater burden on the state budget. However, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have concerns about this mainly because of the unclear relationship between the state and the ownership of all findings which are found to be cultural heritage. We believe that, despite the changes in the declaration of monuments, relations are not clearly defined and there is a conflict of interest between national and private. The proposal merely provides for the alignment of the definition of national wealth with the types of heritage provided for in the national legislation. The Slovenian Democratic Party particularly welcomes the increased responsibility of the voluntary owners, which has been very loosely identified so far, which has resulted in the return of the items to the victims being linked to financial costs which are genuinely unjustified. If the objects are only registered in the register, it does not mean that they are properly protected and who is more responsible for the protection of the heritage. There is therefore also uncertainty and concern about the financing of the public service. For us, it has never been considered that the state fully ensures the maintenance and restoration of cultural monuments. This relates to the cessation of funding, the execution of a public service in which they will start work of the province, which has not yet been established. However, the institution does not have the means to rebuild, so stricter protection regimes may impose higher costs on owners and these municipalities. The law further delimits powers in the issuance of different types of consents and thus removes administration and reduces red tape, such as provisions referring to heritage interventions that do not require the institution's cultural protection consent. The proposal introduces an urgent doubt as to the identification of the inspectors and completely renews the provisions of the inspection measures and the procedure concerning the debtor's obligation to act in the event of a certain suspension of the implementation of the works, the recovery of the situation and the replacement measure. For further work, I would like to draw attention to the sign of the European Heritage that can be received by national monuments that increase the awareness of monuments and play an important role in the history, culture and development of the European Union and underline their European dimension. Slovenia will also be able to cooperate with information and education activities next year among 23 countries. The Slovenian Democratic Party will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u107	Thank you very much, Mrs. Attack. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Samo Bevk has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u108	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! Like most of the laws drafted by the Ministry of Culture, the proposal for the amendment of the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage is intended for a two-phase overhaul. The proposed proposal is a collection of minor corrections, while larger interventions are expected to be prepared with a second novel. The main areas of amendment introduced by the amendment of the law are as follows, according to the Ministry: the regulation of ambiguity and non-conformity of individual definitions and the introduction of new, urgently needed, the regulation of the gaps in the state ownership of archaeological excavations and the addition of the provisions relating to the termination of the status of the monument and the mandatory consent of the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Heritage. At the beginning of this, add what is practically one of the few interests of the public, this is the award to the random finder of archaeological finds. The law sets out more clearly the procedure for the termination of the status of the monument on the basis of a proposal from the competent institution. In practice, the municipalities cancel the decrees for the entire municipality, although the Institute for Cultural Heritage has issued a negative response. With the proposed amendment, the municipality commits itself to obtaining the consent of the institution to protect the legally protected cultural heritage. Thus, this has now established a more binding one. However, if the congregation acted contrary to or without consent, an administrative dispute or an assessment of the legality of the act could be initiated before the Constitutional Court. Most countries know the award to the random finder of archaeological finds. This is the solution we had in the past in the 1961 law. The fact is that the practice so far has shown that the number of those who have reported archaeological objects under the law has been minimal. As a result, museums have lost contact with collectors, thus reviewing private movable heritage. We hope that this award will improve the relationship between collectors and museum institutions. It can be explained from the introductory explanation that the current law in the European environment is known as a modern and advanced law which comprehensively regulates the protection of material and intangible cultural heritage in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, establishes the principle of proportionality between public interest and the rights of owners and transposes the provisions of the relevant international conventions and European directives into the Slovenian legal order. This time the changes relate mainly to the immovable cultural heritage, and an important part of the basic law also contains the area of the movable cultural heritage that Slovenian museums care about. The Museum’s profession strives to regulate the special law on museums according to the archival law. However, I am concerned about the country's stepfather's attitude towards cultural heritage, as the funds for the reconstruction of cultural heritage with the 2014 budget rebalancing and the 2015 budget have been reduced to a minimum and only 30 % of the resources allocated by the State budget for this area are approaching in 1996. That is why we have introduced a law on the provision of funds for certain urgent programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in culture into the parliamentary procedure. The Cultural Tolar or Euro Act, as it is commonly referred to, will expire at the end of this year. By means of a new law, we extend the validity of this law for the period from 2015 to 2019 to complete unrealised projects in the fields of cultural heritage, librarianism, amateur activities, investments in public institutions and cultural networks, thus providing additional EUR 56 million or as much as the national budgets will provide for these years. The Ministry is also preparing a broader amendment to the law in the second phase. In the Group of Social Democrats, we propose that the syntagm of living cultural heritage be transformed into an unfathomable cultural heritage, and we will propose some other changes. Social Democrats will support the amendment of the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u109	Thank you very much, Mr. Bevk. On behalf of the Group of the National Gazette, Mrs Polonca Komar shall have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u110	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues, colleagues! The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage complements, inter alia, the provisions on the proclamation of monuments and provisions on the classification of national wealth, introduces awards to random inventors of archaeological remains of particular importance, more transparently delimits powers in the issuance of different types of consent, complements the provisions relating to the conduct of research, transfers the focus of financing of previous archaeological research from the State budget and complements the provisions on inspection procedures and measures. Above all, it is very important that the proposed changes build on existing cultural heritage protection measures and encourage honest, random finders to inform the competent institution of the finding. Most European countries are aware of the monetary reward for random inventors, and based on experience from other countries, the number of reported findings can be expected to increase significantly. The proposed changes in the process of issuing cultural security consent also remove administrative obstacles, which we are committed to in all areas in the Civil Gazette. We will therefore support the bill in the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u111	Thank you very much, Mrs. Komar. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled. 12. The amendment to Article 2 has been tabled, namely the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party. I'm asking, does anyone want to discuss this? Mr. Jerovšek, you have the floor. The representative of the Government, the Secretary of State, also made a statement. I give my word to the Secretary of State. You are discussing Article 2 or the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! About the amendment. Definitions relating to movable monuments will be addressed in the context of amending articles relating to the activity of museums and the organisation of the public protection service of movable heritage, according to the second phase of the amendment of the law. In our view, however, this proposed definition of the inventory book is too extensive as inventory books are being prepared for museum collections, which are at the same time national wealth, and other inventory collections, in accordance with Article 10 of the current law. In the case of individual objects, decisions shall be issued in the case of national wealth, in the case of a declaration for a monument to a movable heritage as regulated by the applicable law. In addition, we explain that the management of the inventory book of movable heritage is regulated by a special sub-legislative regulation, which is the rules governing the management of the inventory book of movable cultural heritage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Although I did not fully understand whether they supported or did not support this amendment, of course I support it. But I will, because this is the amendment, this time the only one from the beginning of the law, in accordance with concerted practice, have also spoken a few words about the law. I hope that the Chair will not oppose this because I will take advantage of established practice. In the debate on this law on the Committee, I have been very much involved in the debate, because I have observed some inconsistencies and shortcomings, so I strongly hoped that the Ministry would propose this as a change only in the second reading, because in this case such changes would have been made. If we, the opposition, are proposing more substantively, it is still rejected. That didn't happen. What I mean is that here in the introduction it says is that they have only approached the most urgent changes that address the most pressing problems in the implementation of the law and in the provision of public interest. This is a slightly nicer formulation than yesterday's Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture, where it was written that it was a transitional law, the most urgent things, to which must be followed by a roof law, a system law. Now I see there's a similar diction here. I wonder if the entire ministry is only on temporary work so that no law can be systematically, comprehensively pursued. I think we have ministries to solve problems, that if they're doing something, they're doing it in full. It is quite clear that in this way the costs of the country are increasing, as this paper also has to be paid, I doubt that it has been written only inside and now again some of the things that are necessary, but at this point they do not seem necessary, they have not left. Through this law, I have encountered ambiguities or inconsistencies in the area that the law deals with to even change them, changes in the proclamation of monuments. What's this all about? It is stated here in the third indent that the provision was not clear in the work determining the role of the institution of the procedure run by the municipalities. And on such a matter, I met this law and ambiguities and indeterminities in the congregation. When we had a decree declaring monuments of local importance, I suggested on the spot that Dr. Jožet Pučnik's home and grave be declared a monument, which the state should do on its own. For if it is not an inheritance and an important object and a source of statehood, it is sad that one must observe. But I proposed this change, but then the minister eventually rejected this change, even though the representative of the branch office at the meeting of the municipal council convinced me that it would take 50 years for such a person to die, in the case of Jožet Pučnik. This would mean that the next generation would be able to think about it. The committee has shown that there is no such doctrine in the law at all. Then, in the next phase there, I also found that the host Anton Ingolič, who died 20 years later, was classified. And it is right that it is classified as a writer from our congregation. I thought you were going to change the law in this treatment so that such illogicality would not be possible. But you didn't approach it, everything remains that way, once in the future, some more permanent government is likely to change these things too. Of course, I must point out that regional institutions and other institutions must also be interested in and alert to our symbolic heritage. It has been 10 years since the death of Dr. Jožet Pučnik and it is probably a time, it is not a cult of personality or anything, that the founder of Slovenian statehood should also be given some attention through such things and in such a way. If we have institutions, a department that has to think about it, but not actually act like temporary workers, all of which, although warned, leave some distant futures.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u115	Mr Jerovšek, can we please go to the debate on Article 2 please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u116	I've already told you about Article 2 that I support him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr Bevk first has a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! You actually beat me to the punch, and I wanted to make a procedural suggestion that we really should talk about Article 2. The Slovenian Democratic Party's Group proposes to add a new item in Article 2, an inventory book. The explanation says, "Inventory book is a term that occurs several times, so it makes sense to include it among the individual terms that are explained." I don't know what the inventory book has to do with the monument and the landmark of the famous Jozet Pučnik. I propose that this amendment be discussed exclusively below, but we will have the opportunity to discuss the issue of cultural heritage in a broader way on the occasion of the novel, which will be transmitted to the National Assembly by the Government, as announced at the Ministry of Culture. However, my colleague Jožef Jerovšek and I discussed this issue and the monuments to Jožet Pučnik, the proclamation of the Osankarica as a monument of national importance, the partisan hospital Franja, Bazi 20 and so on at the National Committee on Culture, and I do not think that we should be tired at the state-level plenary session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u119	Thank you very much. I think Mr Jerovšek has already realized that we have missed the essence of Article 2. Mrs. Majda Potter, do you have a procedural or discussion? It's a debate. If anyone else wants to discuss it, I'll open the door for applications. For now, it's just magic. Majda Potter. Here you go, Mrs. Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u120	Thank you, Madam Vice President. From the reply of the Secretary of State, I note that the question of the inventory book, which, by the way, is very poorly explained and is only a copy on the table of the amendment tabled, with an literally identical explanation, that it must be among the deadlines because it appears more than once. I would like to bring the debate to another question that relates to the answer. Indeed, the Secretary of State said that the issue of the inventory book would be resolved in the wake of a broader amendment to the same law. But I would point out that the profession expects museums to have a separate law so that they have a museum law, just like we have an archive law. I leave now to the extent that we are a country with individual laws, but these things can be discussed in very different ways. I do not support the amendment that has been tabled, as it did not receive any support from the committee, including due to the same explanation or similar explanation as was then stated. However, we should, Madam Vice-President, and here is more of a replica than anything else, because the fact is that Mr Jerovšek debated very widely at the time of Article 2 following the established parliamentary practice, he used the same parliamentary practice on the Committee at the time of Article 1. I would suggest, however, that you present a magnetogram of the meeting of the Slovenian Bistrica Municipal Council because it speaks of some institutions and of some of the professional opinions of these institutions, which may put the opinions of these institutions in a strange light. And that's where two different things get mixed up. One is the question of declaring an object or an area as a state monument, and the other is the question of access to archival material. These are two separate questions and there is no substitute for them. Where time limits are available, it is known that archival material is available. And in order to compare the two cases that Mr Jerovšek mentions, this is the case of Anton Ingolič and Jožet Pučnik, we should have all the information on how these two monuments were done, what was discussed, how this would be dealt with, in order to create an accurate picture of what was done locally, and what was done after an unstoppable and unacceptable procedure. The local community cannot declare anything as a state monument, according to its opinion. However, when we talk about declaring an area, an item for a State monument, we need to be careful in one more aspect. We also need to ask what our family feels about this. I'm not gonna talk about this next thing. I propose that today the municipal council in Slovenska Bistrica will also meet to wait for those things and see how things are going. I stress that it is also easy to say about individuals in positions of responsibility and institutions. I don't think we who don't have information on these things can have a credible debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Do you have a replica, Mr Jerovšek?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u122	Thank you very much. I must say that I am very pleased that colleague Potrate is so interested in discussions on the municipal council of the municipality of Slovenska Bistrica. As well informed, we do have the congregation council today, and I invite it to come forward and listen to the discussions on the municipal council. Since the meeting is always open to the public, it may be attended. Last time she had a more formal office in Slovenska Bistrica. This topic ended there because the minister rejected the amendment that I proposed there. So we can no longer open this darkness there at this stage. Mr. Grills, in order to make no mistake, he said no. Now I point out that the law is really the same as it says it is of a more transitory nature, an urgent matter. Not all emergencies, because what I've opened is an urgent matter, but casual things are opening up, and at the same time they're preparing something more systematic than what's been detected from this and other laws that have recently come from the ministries. Once again, this marriage is what it is. I believe, as was the opinion of our Group of Members, that at least most things are well-intentioned and useful, so we will not reject them. Of course, I would like the ministry, which is responsible for symbolic monuments and for cultural heritage, to think about this in the future and to contribute to our putting on the altar of the homeland, if I say so, true relics, not relics of other countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u123	Thank you very much. You'll get a replica, Mrs. Potrata. First of all, I find that both discussers have gone from amendment to article 2. I call on everyone who will debate in the future to stick to what we have today on the agenda. The Replica has Mrs. Potrate.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u124	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I did not go by my own volition, but some of the arguments that were not accurate had to be stated as they were necessary. However, if we looked at the magnetogram of the Committee on Culture, we would see how long we had dealt with things that were not even subject to the law and how many times Mr Jerovsk had been explained what had to be explained to him. But I wanted to replicate the statement about the form of the sent office. I know that this is the pain of Mr Jerovsk, because the people from the constituency of Mr Jerovsk also came to the office of the Social Democrats. They now have a Member's office there in the previous term also Dejan Levanič and now Matevž Frangež. We understand the fulfilment of obligations towards citizens and citizens as being beyond the narrow limits of the constituency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss Article 2? Then I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr. Aleš Črnič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u126	Thank you very much. First of all, with regard to the impact, as regards the finding of a reckless approach to amending the law, etc. It's the opposite. The Ministry has embarked on a very thorough review. There are two stages here, as we have explained several times. The first phase is limited to a real estate inheritance and the second to a movable heritage. So it's not an informal change, we're not expecting anything more systemic, but it's these two stages. Let me repeat again and I will be very explicit that there will be no misunderstandings, we cannot support this proposed amendment. If we were to discuss it, it would be a second stage space. We also have substantive reservations, as I have already explained, and once again, let me repeat: the definition of the inventory book is too extensive, and this is already regulated by the rules governing the management of the inventory book of the movable cultural heritage. Only two words about this decree of the municipality of Slovenska Bistrica. This decree has been adopted in non-compliance with the legislation and is therefore difficult to discuss at all. We've already explained on the parental committee what this is all about. We have also asked the congregation to make amends. The fact is that monuments of local importance are declared on the basis of the professional basis of the institution, which in this case was not nearly fulfilled. The point is that the household is not even registered in the register of cultural heritage, which is even a prerequisite for anything. Just one more thing, about the expressed concern about the museum area, the museum profession and so on. Let me just say that this second phase, which we are already intensively preparing, is taking place in some regular intensive dialogue and coordination with the museum. This is the whole area of the movable heritage, where museum institutions also operate, so this concern is really superfluous. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? If not, I'm closing the debate. The amendment will be decided in half an hour in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. I also adjourn the 20th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 3.15 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u128	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the National Assembly. We are moving on to the votes of the National Assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Act on Offences by Short Procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendment tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendment tabled on 17 December 2013, by Article 5. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 5. I ask if anyone wants to explain his voice on behalf of the Group of Members. Maybe in your own name? If we don't, we're going to the vote. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 68 votes against none. [[The vote was 68.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have completed the vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted the amendment to Article 5 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this Article. No wish. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not informed me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would have made the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? No, no, no. In your own name? No, no, no. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 68 votes against none. [[The vote was 68.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue the 4th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Wine, after a reduced procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which we will make on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 17 December 2013. We are moving on to point 1 to Article 13 – the decision on the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Let me remind you, if this amendment is adopted, the amendment under point 2 becomes irrelevant. Anybody want to explain their voice? He doesn't want to. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 44. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 13. Anybody want to explain their voice? He doesn't want to. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 22. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 22.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to Article 14. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment under number 2 becomes irrelevant. Anybody want to explain their voice? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 44. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 14. Anybody want to explain their voice? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 21. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 21.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have completed the vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted amendments to Articles 13 and 14 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to these articles. You have the floor, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u129	Thank you so much for saying that. Good bye to all of you! The Group of Members will table amendments to these two articles.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u130	Thank you very much. We've recorded this wish. I interrupt this agenda item, which we will continue tomorrow, December 19th, after the final vote. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act under the ordinary procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Anybody want to explain their voice? Here you are, Mr Shircelj, an explanation for the vote on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, Government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! We will not support this law in the SDS Group in particular because the guidelines and conclusions of the debate on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy have not been taken into account, in particular, in order to make the law more transparent and to ensure certain legal certainty for all taxpayers. There is still an unanswered question about what will happen to those taxpayers who are already in the process and for which this process will continue in 2014 and, in fact, under which law they will be taxed. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, in its opinion, also drew attention to the possibility of retroactivity of this law. We do know, however, that if retroactivity occurs in a particular taxpayer, this means that the law is unconstitutional or contrary to the Constitution. This shows, after all, a number of decisions or a number of decisions of the Constitutional Court, which ultimately results in much more damage. Because of this, and also because of some principle of general concern as to whether this law actually introduces criminal policy into the tax policy of the Republic of Slovenia, the German Constitutional Court has determined that any tax rate that is above 50% actually constitutes an infringement of the property rights of each individual, we cannot support this law. While we expected that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia would also take account of certain solutions, but no solutions, because some of the coalition members from the Social Democrats in particular had pointed out these issues. Since they are not there, we do not support or oppose the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Would anyone else like to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? No, no, no. In your own name? Here you are, Mr Pavlišič, an explanation in your own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u133	Thank you for your word. I can't support this marriage. I support the purpose of the law, which is good, but despite the fact that Members are adopting laws and constitutions in this national assembly, we are not above the laws and we are not above the constitution, and we must take this into account. In this law, we are warned that the path to hell is pressed with good intentions. Because of these good intentions, the country or taxpayers often have to pay some back with late interest. The last case was, say, yesterday, and here's a case that's been deleted, and there's something else that could have happened. For this reason, because of the constitutional dispute in this proposal, I cannot support the law, but I suggest that if you accept it, you should also propose to the Constitutional Court, that it be immediately pronounced on the constitutionality of this law, that we not be informed of these consequences later, perhaps five years later, when we tax something on the basis of this law and then return it all together with late interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? Here you go, Mrs. Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u135	Thank you very much. I would only explain that the Legislative and Legal Service in this law in relation to what Mr Pavlišič has said has really raised certain issues, as it has always pointed out in these cases. Even in a specific case where the review period is set from five to ten years, when the declared revenue and property can be reviewed, the Court will have to weigh rights and intervene in rights and do what is always done when it comes to weighing individual constitutional rights. In spite of the concerns we have also had with the proponents, the Ministry of Finance is very firm in its view that in this case there is a very reliable basis for the Constitutional Court to judge this evaluation as proposed by the bill-maker. This has been confirmed by several Supreme Court rulings, and I think there is also one decision of the European Court of Justice. Following the Government's assertion, there is a very high likelihood that this decision, which is the first time in our legislation, is not disputed and will be able to pass a possible test at the Constitutional Court, so I will support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u136	Thank you very much, Mrs. Kociper. Anyone else want a word? Here you go, mag. Spread out.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u137	Thank you very much. I will not support the adoption of this law in my name and in the vote of the Law, because I think that it will be possible not only to do legal harm in our legal system, but because there is a high likelihood that cases such as those created or decided yesterday or the day before, when the state will actually have to pay back more money than it has received, because it will have to return all late interest. [[..]] This also means that because of this, on the other hand, taxpayers will pay more, and it also means what the Legislative and Legal Service has warned that there is a certain likelihood that this will happen, in my personal opinion, in many cases. In addition, we must act within the framework of the Constitution and the government must draw up laws within the framework of the Constitution. One legal practice was also established yesterday by a decision of the Constitutional Court, which stipulated that the law could not work backwards. That's why there's gonna be a lot of money coming back. Such a way, I think, is unacceptable to the government. The government, I am also thinking of the individuals or officials of this government, and of other governments, should also respond personally in such claims, in the end, especially if there is an unnecessary flow of money from the state budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Here you go, Mr. Aljoša Jerič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u139	Thank you very much. I confirm, as my colleague Kociprova told me, that we had concerns in this regard for the question for five or ten years in the Group of Positive Slovenia. However, it was the Ministry of Finance that warned us that the majority of those people who have hidden property or the bulk of the acquisitions of these assets took place more than five years ago, while ensuring that the procedures will be conducted professionally and with great weight. We trust in the conduct of these procedures, so we will support such a proposal for a legislative amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Can we move on to a decision? We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 42 votes against 30. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 30.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the provision of Payment Services to Budget Users under the ordinary procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Would anyone like to explain your voice? No, no, no. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 2. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 7th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on International Protection under the ordinary procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. I'm asking if anyone would like to explain their voice. No, no, no. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Protection of Cultural Heritage under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled on 17 December 2013. We decide on the amendment of Article 2 of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Would anyone like to explain their vote before making a decision? If not, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 42. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 42.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We have concluded our decision on the amendment and thus conclude my second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the second reading of the amendment to the amended bill has not been adopted, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Would anyone like to explain your voice? Yeah. Ms Ludmila Novak on behalf of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u141	Thank you for your word. Christian Democrats of New Slovenia will support this amendment of the law, but we note that some of the solutions are missing in this law and we want to propose new improvements soon. In particular, we believe that property owners of cultural heritage are not sufficiently stimulated to maintain them. When they start building a house and they run into archaeological remains, they have to invest these research themselves. For example, a young family who already rents a house loan must then invest in this and find itself in difficulty and thus not equal to those who build in an area where research has already been carried out at the expense of the state. Then we also say that there is a problematic reduction in funds intended to restore cultural heritage monuments, and that we may also lose some important cultural heritage monuments, such as the medieval wall paintings at Sveta Primož nad Kamnik and some others, because there are not enough resources to meet contractual obligations, let alone new ones. However, since the market has been increasingly abandoned, the quality of renovations is declining, and there are too few conservators to control it, so in some cases even damage is done. New Slovenia will support this amendment of the law, but we would like to draw attention to these shortcomings which we expect you to try to improve in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u142	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of National Communities, Mr Roberto Battelli, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u143	Thank you so much for saying that. I can only assume, but with great certainty, that, for political reasons, the state is actually advocating that it does not identify indigenous national communities with its own cultural heritage and that, in fact, the state denies what it declares and what it is bound to do by all domestic, constitutional acts, as well as international documents, as far as this matter is concerned. Consider the extent to which cultural heritage is registered as a cultural heritage of national communities — there is not one case. Not a single one! The amendment concerning the first paragraph of Article 3, point 9, Social importance of cultural heritage was rejected, but the definition is as follows: "The social significance is the value that heritage has due to its cultural, educational, developmental, religious, symbolic and identification potential or to the study of professions such as anthropology, archaeology, architecture, ethnology, art history and history." I call on you, fellows and colleagues, to look at textbooks from all these subjects, and to tell me whether any of these textbooks link these concepts to the national communities as well. No one! It's not like that. That was rejected. And from this, I can't see it as if there are political reasons that dictate from somewhere, from some tradition, that it doesn't even come to that. These are major violations, these are extremely serious breaches of the constitutional obligations and international obligations of this country. That's why I won't support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u144	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Bevk has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u145	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! The Group of Social Democrats will support the amendment of the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage. The proposer introduces some minor changes, which mainly affect the protection of immovable cultural heritage, and major changes are envisaged in the second phase or with broader changes to be sent by the Government to the National Assembly in this mandate. The current law is known in the European environment as a modern and advanced law which comprehensively regulates the protection of material and intangible cultural heritage in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. At the same time, we would like to point out that cultural heritage is being maintained or invested in the monumental area. In the 2014 budget, only 30% of the funds provided in 1996 are provided. Therefore, the Group of Members and Members of the Social Democrats has introduced into the parliamentary procedure a law on the provision of funds for certain urgent programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in culture. By means of this law, we will extend the validity of the Act on Cultural Tolar or Euro, as it is commonly referred to, even for the period 2015 to 2019, so that we can also provide additional funds for the protection and revitalization of the national cultural heritage of state monuments and also local monuments. As I express my support for this law, I also propose to support the amendment of the Cultural Tolar or Euro Act, which will come on the agenda of the National Assembly next year. We hope it will be adopted. It will take effect in 2015. However, let me say that this law has just been discussed and supported by the Council of State or the committee responsible. Thank you very much. The Social Democrats Group will support today's amendment to the Cultural Heritage Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? Mr. Battelli on his own behalf, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Let me make it up to you. This is also one example, since it is not the first time that legislation looks perfect, perfect, in accordance with the highest standards, but actually it is the opposite of what it says. This is typical in the field of protection of minorities of national communities. That's what we find. The government also notes. Several recent governments have noted this and have noted the Council of Europe. I would ask for a little seriousness on these issues when we consider that things are not just adopted there in one day, but that we actually focus on implementing the laws, implementing the words we write down in the laws in this area and in all other areas. I won't support the law. I will wait to see what this other change of law will bring about in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Can we move on to a decision? We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 68 votes against one. [[The vote was 68.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I hereby adjourn the 20th meeting of the Assembly, to be resumed tomorrow, 19 December 2013, at 9 a.m. Everybody have a good day!
