ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 19th meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Member: Mag. Melita Župevc, Mrs Eva Irgl, Mrs Janja Navast, Mrs Aleksandra Osterman and Mr Brane Golubovic. I invited the President of the Government, the Ministers and Ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government to the 1st item of the agenda, the representative of the State Audit Commission for the revision of the procedures for the award of public contracts to the 32nd item of the agenda, the Minister of Finance of Dr. Uroš Cufer to the 34th item of the agenda and the representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. I welcome all those present once again. We are moving on to the agenda of the 19th meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday, 8 November 2013, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for the withdrawal of a single item from the agenda, so we are moving on to the consideration and decision on the proposal for an extension of the agenda. Following an agreement at the 72nd meeting of the College of the President of the National Assembly on 15 November 2013, I propose to the National Assembly that the agenda of the 19th meeting be extended by the consideration of the draft law on how to pay the pay gap due to the elimination of the third quarter of the imbalances in the basic salaries of public servants, urgent procedure, EPA 1592-VI. You received an extension proposal on Friday 15 November 2013. I ask if a representative of the Government, the bill-maker, would like a word in extending the agenda. Minister Dr. Virant, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u2	Thank you. I'll just say one sentence. This is a matter, a problem we have to solve because we have a Supreme Court ruling. There is no choice here, it could be, the only choice would be to push the head into the sand, to sue 10,000 people, to wait for 10,000 enforcement procedures, and eventually to pay everything with late interest and procedural costs. That's why we need to get married.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u3	Thank you. Would the representatives of the groups of Members wish to speak? I note that no, so I am concluding the debate on the proposal for enlargement. We're moving on to decision-making. Before doing so, I ask you to check the functioning of the voting devices. We vote to extend the agenda. There are 74 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 17. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 17.]] I note that the proposal for an extension of the agenda has been adopted. The assembly will consider the draft law as item 2a of the agenda on Thursday, 21 November 2013. We are moving on to a full vote on the draft agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda which you have received with reference, with the addition adopted. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 53 votes against none. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 19th meeting of the National Assembly is set. We are moving on to the 34th A-point of the agenda, which is the request of the Parliament and the Members that the National Assembly decide on the decision of the College of Presidents of the State to propose a law on amendments and amendments to the Law on Wine of Defence after a shorter procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided at its 71st meeting on 8 November 2013 that the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Wine Act, EPA 1552-VI, submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government, should be considered following a reduced procedure. On the basis of Article 21, paragraph 10, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the group of 26 Members and Members, with the first-signed Jozet Tank, requested the National Assembly to decide on that decision by the College. A representative of the applicants wants to speak to the Magi. Andrej Vizjak to present his position? Yeah. Here you go, mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u4	Your Honor! In Slovenia it is traditional, as well as a very widespread production of grapes as well as musts and wine. This is the source of survival for many people, and it builds up material position for many, and this is also the way of life for many. Many colleagues are likely to be involved in pre-election campaigns, including among these people on Slovenian hills, and then you can experience the importance of this law as well as this job for the Slovenian population, not just for industry. I come from places that are wine-rich and have traditionally been connected to the Croatian market. With Croatia's entry into the European Union, the establishment of these trade and business links is further opened. I think we're talking about a very important law and an important topic. Slovenia is also very diverse in terms of tourism and the link between tourism and winemaking. We have in a relatively narrow area of three wine-growing countries, we have a whole bunch of wine varieties, types, recognized traditional designations and so on. It is an important sector that deserves, respects, more than just dealing with one law after a reduced procedure, with some important ones, and in particular with the lack of the many arrangements and opportunities that such a law could represent. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we rightly objected to this law being dealt with in a reduced procedure. We believe that there is a need to have a broader debate on these solutions and also to settle a number of things that are not regulated, and the procedure will make this impossible. In particular, we need measures to promote and develop this activity. We have earlier practice that vineyards and also production, later wine production, leave mainly because of the many problems that small vineyards face in particular. I estimate that the regulation of this area is excessive, too over-speciesised, requires a number of records, registers and the active role of the smallest producers as well. I believe that if the state had been able to assess properties through GURS, that it would also be able to do a great deal on its own without including those who have 0.1 hectares of vineyards, that is to say 10 acres to do so and in certain procedures, not to speak of the more liberalised provisions of the regulations which then talk about the different conditions for carrying out this activity and also the traffic in wine. According to our assessment, it should also be examined whether in Slovenia the production of wines from so-called native vines should continue to be banned. Some neighbouring countries have made this a real market expansion and deal with it as an upgrade, but we still do, although we know that we have a competition in these so-called national varieties all over the country, more or less at a fan level, but we do, but at the same time we close our eyes, because this is practically forbidden under the wine law. Not to mention that you can buy the vine of a dresser at three times the price of a common vine, which means that in some way it is clearly more valuable because of this ban. If we look at neighbouring Austria, this business is booming. Once again, if Slovenia declares itself as a country wishing to develop tourism, while not paying enough attention to this area of wine production, and not least to the promotions and offers of these wines to customers, then it is missing an important opportunity. All of this in the Slovenian Democratic Party is highlighted in this amendment of the wine law, because we believe that many issues are unresolved, unanswered and that even in some areas this novel introduces additional bureaucratic procedures, according to our assessment, also at the initiative of some lobbyist producers. These are the basic reasons. We ask you to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u5	Thank you. Since there is no debate and no explanation of vote on this proposal, we are moving on to a decision. I propose to the assembly that it decide on the following decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the wine law shall be dealt with in a simplified procedure. If no decision is taken, the National Assembly will consider the draft law on a regular basis. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 29. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 29.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The assembly will consider that proposal for a law following a reduced procedure. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to one. DOCTOR OF THE DAY, THESE ARE THE QUESTIONS OF MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received written submissions from 35 questions sent. The order of the question referred shall be laid down on the basis of an agreement with the heads of the groups of Members and in accordance with Article 244, second paragraph, Article 245, second paragraph, and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The first three questions will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government to the members of the opposition and to the delegation's question of the ruling coalition. Each Member or Member shall have 3 minutes to ask the question. The President of the Government, ministers and ministers shall respond to questions within a maximum of five minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have 5 minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay close attention to this when asking questions. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member in two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. The Member who asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. I inform you that they have apologized today: Mr Roman Jakič, Minister for Defence, Mr Karl Erjavec, Minister for Foreign Affairs, and Dr Jernej Pikalo, Minister for Education, Science and Sport from 16.30 p.m. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. As I have predicted, the first four questions will be answered by the President of the Government of Mags. Alenka Bratusek. The first question will be asked by Mr Franz Bogovic, Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u6	Good afternoon, distinguished president, colleagues and colleagues! Nice greetings, Madam President of the Government, and a ministerial team! Your government has decided to impose a real estate tax. Taking into account the general behaviour and unification of the views that this tax should be introduced, you have also decided to impose Euro200 million of the crisis tax, which will have to be paid in the coming years, in parallel with this tax. You've decided on an emergency procedure. In this process, the coalition has also sided with you, and in this way a quality debate has also been largely disabled, especially to hear the opinions of a wide variety of groups of people who feel hurt and want some clarifications. We can certainly talk about the criminal valuation of property and also about the procedure when it does not allow a complaint, which is in some ways also a reduction of the constitutional right to answer certain governmental measures, the decisions of the State by way of a complaint. With this law you have touched virtually all the groups that have created in the past. This was also the case in the debate we had at that time when we heard that it was a tax on fairness, a tax on merit, a tax on those who were saving. This is what the pensioners, who fear for a peaceful age, have referred to, given that they have created certain real estates in the active age of life with higher incomes, which will now have to pay a considerable amount of taxes. Low-income workers came forward, including craftsmen who feel very exposed and in some ways point out the deterioration of the business environment in which they are located. The affected are people in the countryside, either farmers or property owners. During that time, there was also the signing of a petition against this tax, with a basic ambition that the tax should be re-debated qualitatively and enforceable by 1. 1. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. You were immune to these people's calls, you didn't want to hear them. Even though 58,000 signatures were collected in one week under this petition, on your part, the government simply did not have that much time and it did not seem worth answering or explaining these signatures. To this day, more than 75,000 signatures have been collected, and it is simply the government and you have decided not to communicate with people and not to answer that. We have already mentioned the case when we collected signatures in Europe this year under a petition that opposed the privatisation of water resources and then signed a petition of 1.5 million Europeans. If we calculate the percentage of the population, this is 12 times less than today's taxpayers' tax. The European Commission has managed so much democraticity that it has stopped the proceedings, and apparently we have a matter at night. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u7	Thank you. I give my word to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u8	Although I could listen a little poorly, I did not hear the question, but I will try to answer from what you wrote, Mr Bogovich. Thank you for giving me once again the arguments why we decided on the property tax and not on the crisis tax, as you suggest, on the table. I will tell the Members and Members, after all, also the citizens and citizens again why the decision was so. First of all, I would like to say that I have met with representatives of farmers as well as representatives of craftsmen, so I ask you not to operate anymore because I have not seen anyone at your side in recent times except the Slovenian People's Party. The real estate tax is one of the most widespread and common taxes in the European Union. Two countries don't know this tax. One is Malta and the other is Croatia from 1 July. After tax, Slovenia will be somewhere on the average of the European Union countries. And that's a property tax, not regular personal income. Whoever has more property will pay more taxes, who has one apartment in which he resides, will pay less than those who have two apartments, and whoever has an empty apartment is said to benefit no one, is not used for anything, will pay more. I think that's absolutely fair. However, I would like to point out, Mr Bogovic, that I am sure, but I am sure that you are not worried about people's hardships, but that your mayors, who today with their contributions, are making compensation for the use of building land in their municipalities, are doing much less transparent than they can when this tax is introduced. I'm sure that's the key to your whole story. As far as the economy is concerned. I spoke to several directors, and everyone I spoke to, but of course I couldn't talk to everyone, they tell me that they would pay the same or even less after the new one. It is said that this additional burden on the economy is not true either. As far as farmers are concerned, I think we've given up talking to them very much. I met them. The Minister of Finance met with them several times. But to me, a lot of people, when, I think, the four tractors around this House circled around, said they wanted to know how much these tractors were worth. And these tractors are worth between 150 and 200,000 euros. And to explain to people, young people who don't have housing, that they won't be able to pay the property tax, I don't think it's the right thing to do. As far as taxation of the average Slovenian family is concerned. It's hard to say what property he owns, but from the data available, we calculated that the average housing property is 68.7 square meters and is worth 78 thousand euros. And for this residential property, the family, the owner will pay 93.6 euros in the following year 2014. Today, the average compensation for the use of building land was €57. This, Mr Bogovic, means 3 euros more per month. If someone who works and earns an average salary, because we are operating on average here, with a crisis tax, as you suggest, it would be 30 euros a month. Ten times that. Ten times more, and you suggest that for everyone. Even for those who have nothing. However, I will continue because I believe that you will want a supplement, read a few more things that the students have said, are true young people in relation to this tax.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u9	Mr Bogovic has the floor to complete the answer or request.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u10	Dear President! First of all, who are we fighting for, if only the Slovenian People's Party and within two weeks 75,000 people are behind us, I am very happy. I think that this tax is also signed by those who are not just our members. Apparently, you have the wrong information here today, too. 150 000 euros would be the most valuable tractors under any uniform valuation method you have in this tax. I know this area, and I know that maybe all four are worth that much, but I doubt they are. Also, I have never seen any of the farmers take a tractor to Hawaii, nor to the Slovenian coast. They need them to work. And let them work. Let the craftsmen also work to warn that this average, segender, cabbage and meat will result in six-fold, eight-fold higher duties for some, Madam President. There will also be six times fewer duties for malls. We have also pointed out that the burdens will be very different. You're instituting crisis taxes. We weren't in a position. When we were in position, we mainly tried to reduce consumption. Your crisis tax is now EUR 200 million on this basis of real estate. If our proposal were ten times bigger, we'd probably be talking about two billion. I hope that we do not yet need so many to complete these gaps that arise in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Excuse me, Madam President, you are moving away from your words when you said when you took over the government that this is a day of hope, of integration and of respect. I do not see much respect for these people, nor for the opposition, who is trying to participate constructively and with serious warnings in this proposal. You said when you were appointed Prime Minister of the Government: "We are here to regulate public affairs in a common good, to seek the best and most acceptable solutions in the dialogue of the profession and the public." Don't try hard enough for this dialogue. Those we want, and we remind them of that. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u11	Mr Bogovic, I have tried to follow this debate and I find that you have not submitted any requests to complete the answer. It was more of a comment and an indication of what she did, what the President of the Government didn't do. But if you want, President of the Government, you can complete your answer anyway. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u12	Thank you. Yeah, because I got the question written down, of course I can answer it. Because I've run out of time before, that's all. Real estate, Mr Bogovic, you know that in cities they are significantly more valuable than in rural areas. So he doesn't think it's a rural tax. For example, 100,000 euros in Kranj means a three-bedroom apartment. And there's a lot of this going on with the apartment house, and it's much bigger than a three-bedroom apartment. I'm still in favour of making a deal, but make suggestions. The crisis tax you proposed on wages, if I say so, would burden the average family, is said to be the one that earns the average wage, and if the average has a large apartment, at an average value of ten times more per month. These are the facts. We can calculate that. I can also show you how I got here. And now what I promised you. On 21 October 2013, the student organisation of Slovenia said in its public statement, and I think it is important that young people have really paid a great price for this crisis: "In recent years the situation of young people has deteriorated dramatically. Of course, the crisis itself has contributed greatly to this, but it has revealed in particular the attitude of policy towards young people and the willingness of political parties to address youth issues more than it has hit. Thus, we have been young hostages of hopeless politics for a long time, and especially in recent times it has proved to be highly interesting and in the desire for the privilege of certain social groups. In particular, the duality of political parties is known in solving housing problems. The country is with Zujf, as you still remember him, Mr Bogovic, has abolished the granting of subsidies to young families for the first resolution of the housing issue, which has also been supported by those who now want to privilege the position of some other groups. While we are mostly young without constant income, without real estate, without the possibility of winning and creating a career and family, politics privileged the other social groups that have most of the above-mentioned things guaranteed. The regulation of the real estate market is both necessary and necessary through legal regulation to burden those who exploit the current situation and are not prepared to release the youth market."
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u13	Thank you. Mr Bogovic has a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u14	As the President rightly said, the issue was very clear about the impact on these people and also in this context of the debate. I suggest that we discuss this problem, how tax will affect all of us, in the National Assembly at the next meeting. Today, the Infrastructure and Space Committee was held, where representatives of the Ministry had already said that they had made mistakes and would try to eliminate them by the time the law came into force. I hope that Parliament is the place where we can talk about these mistakes and finish this tax. Madam President, I have repeatedly said that I am not against property tax, but we should take enough time to correct these mistakes before the tax goes into effect. Even in this part where you talk about this honest burden of people. Does it seem fair to you that someone in the city today, as you said, will have such an expensive tax apartment and a pensioner will also pay dearly, as you said, because he is in an elite location? I'm talking about evaluation. Is it fair that the agricultural land in Primorska is valued 15 times more than that in Pomure? Is it fair that now someone who has paid about 30 to 50 euros on average for a larger apartment building in rural areas will now, if they happen to live with agriculture and have 20 hectares of land in which a job in cattle is created, move to about 500 euros, after about three thirds to a residential area, to a residential facility, to an agricultural facility? Is it true that in Celje, as examples show, 6 to 8 times less compensation for shopping centres, because we did not accept the amendment, that more can be reckoned for such centres, and that the restaurants in the city centre where today the municipality's policy was to lower the compensation and after the new 13 times more? And, excuse me, yes, we also stand up for the Slovenian municipalities. Because apparently the one in the government and the whole government is unaware of this and is working in many areas a series of harmful measures for the Slovenian municipalities. And this is one of those where what we have been alerting ourselves to is one of the basic fundamental tasks of subsidiarity, which is also enshrined in the European Charter on Local Self-Government, that municipalities have competence to manage this area. There are many such shortcomings and anomalies in this law, so we were firmly convinced that it would have to be a regular procedure in order for this to be resolved in order to find solutions in the meantime. The government is the one to propose solutions for that one year. We have told the boards that there are other solutions, that more creativity is needed. As far as young people are concerned, there will be no new jobs with new taxes. What you do is take the future of young people because you keep the existing public sector intact and, on the other hand, reduce the competitiveness of the economy. I suggest we talk about this in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u15	Thank you, Mr. Bogovich. Your proposal to hold a discussion on the answer will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 19 November 2013, in the framework of the votes. The second question will be raised by Mrs Ludmila Novak, Nova Slovenija.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u16	Dear Prime Minister of the Government, the Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! I know you recently attended a conference on young people in Paris. I'm sure that's where you got new ideas. And since I would like to not forget this to be implemented in Slovenia, I have decided to ask you today a question about young people. We all know that the situation in the country is worrying about the employment of young people, that we currently have more than 23% of the unemployed young people who moved from Slovenia last year to abroad more than 3 000 300 young people. And with additional indebtedness, we also impose new taxes on young people for the future, not only for us who are now employed and working, but for those who are now young in the future who will have to pay these taxes, but do not have to take up a job in order to create a family, in short, they are in a very difficult position. That's why I'm asking you: How will you respond to these alarming data – I also require specific data from government plans to relieve the economy and, as a result, to halt the wild growth of youth unemployment, which we are also saving through student work, is likely to increase youth unemployment even further? How would you infect the brain escape? What measures, what number of jobs will they bring, by what date or years will they take?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u17	Thank you. I give my word to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mrs Novak, for that question. And I can tell you that yes, young people are absolutely the priority of this government. I was a little surprised by your written parliamentary question, where you wrote, "I demand specific information." Since you haven't been a minister in the previous government for eight months, I would really like to know if you and the Prime Minister of the previous government, Janez Janša, have ever discussed the issue of young people because they speak for themselves. Unfortunately, in the second half of 2012, Slovenia ranked first after the growth of youth unemployment: from 17.7 to 23.3 per cent. The second half of 2013, unfortunately we were not able to lower this number, but the fact that it is no longer increasing. We've managed to fix this in these short seven months, if I may say so. Over the next two years, along with all the measures we have taken, some € 160 million will be earmarked, and I will just say to the youth programmes. This includes these contributions when we exempt companies if they hire young people. But we're going in order. Active employment policy is the first. For the first time, we increase it by 6% in the next year to €131.5 million, and with the Active Employment Policy Programme, we give the labour market an advantage and increase their competitiveness. That we are successful in this regard shows that, despite the recession and job shortages, 13% of the young people have been employed this year. 13% more than last year, young people under 29 years of age, and 20% more first-time job seekers than last year. I think these are very specific numbers. Secondly, as the Committee on European Affairs has somehow entrusted me with, we have managed to secure EUR 9.2 million in European projects for the Youth Initiative, this is additional money for Slovenia, and I think it will be a document that will show us how we will spend this money in public debate just soon. Now the minister tells me there'll be a press conference tomorrow where we'll present it. Last but not least, we have adopted a law on intervention measures in the labour market and parental protection, after which a employer who will permanently employ an unemployed person under 30 years of age is entitled or will not have to pay contributions for pension and disability insurance, health insurance, parental care and unemployment insurance. We have done so, even though there have been many criticisms in the opposition’s National Assembly at the time of our adoption of this law. As of 1 November, I hope and hope that businesses, entrepreneurs, will recognize this as positive, and also that young people will find that it is worth more to be employed than to work through student service because they have more of it, and that this measure will be a real relief to the contributions that I have listed earlier, and will have even more positive effects than we originally planned. Our assessment, I think, was 5,000 additional jobs, but once again, which I think is important, 13% of the young people have been employed this year than in last year, and 20% more first-time job seekers than in 2012. Once again, I can assure you that young people are certainly the priorities of this government. I myself have attended the Youth Council, and I think this will be my practice, because I am aware that young people are indeed part of our society, who have unfortunately paid the highest price in this crisis.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u19	Thank you. Mrs Ludmila Novak has a request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u20	Madam President, I didn't want to argue with you. Just like you can't solve all the problems immediately, we couldn't solve them in one year, but we were good against it and we were working on it. My question was perfectly well-intentioned. You used to say politics was hopeless. I would also like to make a small contribution to this by virtue of my current powers. We have several different national programmes. We have adopted a national programme for young people, a national programme for education, for young people, etc. I believe, however, that we should draw up an integrated action programme, linking education, scholarship, employment policies and doing more for entrepreneurship. I don't think we should stop when we encourage entrepreneurs to hire young people. Dear Prime Minister, please, if you'll listen to me! I think that an integrated action plan is needed, but above all it is necessary to identify what professions we need, what we could produce in Slovenia and how young people could better start businesses. I think we need to take a step forward, not just to hire them, but how they will be able to take a step forward. The future is certainly in small, medium and family companies and we have too little tradition here in Slovenia and do not do enough to encourage this. Mentoring isn't only important when someone's hired at the company, but how, if they set up a company, they can work on it. We still have a lot of mangoes here. Someone told me, education, good education is when it allows you to create a job for yourself and hire someone else.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u21	Thank you. In order to complete my response, I give the floor to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u22	Yeah. I agree with everything you've said, Your Honor. I didn't want to be nimble either, or whatever you've used before for me, but you were a minister in the previous government for a year and it was time for some measure to be taken for young people. I had already read what the young people had written, you and Zujf abolished subsidies for young families, you wanted to reduce funding for higher education, and then we were able to stop it together in the last year. We are preparing the so-called Youth Guarantee project, which is being prepared inter-resortically, the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Education, and will very precisely define these measures. I have now given you those that are already being implemented and show very very positive effects. 13% more young employees than last year, I believe you agree with me that this is a big step. But I can also agree with you that it could be even bigger, and I believe that these steps will be even bigger in the longer term. We have increased funding for active employment policy, we have increased funding for scholarships, under operational programmes, we have a special priority for European funds, which will be called "young people". What we have managed to choose from European funds is more than we could have expected in these shorts, however we turn, for 7 months. However, there is still a shorter period than you were a minister in the previous government, and I would really be happy to know what was done for young people at that time.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u23	Mrs Ludmila Novak has a procedural request.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u24	I'll answer right away. Action First Challenge and in PPIZ two subsidies for youth employment. But like I said, it's not my intention to argue with you. However, I am informing you that I will not make a procedural proposal to deal with this at the meeting, because all these proposals fall into the water, no one has been accepted, but I would like to announce that New Slovenia will make a proposal for an urgent meeting of the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities on the situation of young people, and I am inviting you to this meeting now, given that this issue is so urgent, it is one of the biggest problems. Well, I'm glad if it's all going to be like you mentioned, I'll be very happy, because then more young people will have jobs. But I think that there will be concrete results, a few more steps, and we want to encourage you to do so. The back-up charge, I think it just takes your credibility.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u25	Thank you. I must point out that this last part of the procedural proposal is really intended to require a discussion on the answer. The notification of the emergency meeting may be communicated in another way. I suggest you hold on to all the others who will ask questions. The third person to ask the question is mag. Andrej Shircelj, Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. Dear Prime Minister, Minister and Ministers, welcome! I believe you have a lot of optimism in your answers, but I would like to remind you of the reality. The reality is that it is determined by the forecasts of international institutions, both in terms of employment or the increase in unemployment in 20214 and the decline in economic growth. Here we are one of the few countries, in fact the only country in the European Union besides Cyprus, for which it also predicts a decline in economic growth in 2014 and 2013. In addition, we will have more inflation than in other countries of the European Union, which, of course, is a poor human situation, the financial situation, the income situation of people and, last but not least, wages will fall. With consumption falling, of course, I am interested in: What are your government's actions, including structural measures that will bring Slovenia out of recession, so that they will simply show the way to economic growth, to halt unemployment, and which will also, as the next issue, cause Slovenia to stop its debt? In this regard, I am interested in: What is the Government's debt policy, especially with regard to the fact that this debt has been heavily exceeded by 22 billion and that the last debt carried out in the closed market, after the return of 4,84, in my opinion, is harmful to Slovenia, detrimental to the population and is this interest rate too high? In this regard, I am interested in: What policy does your government have as to what policy, in fact, that the State will have to pay as much for interest only on Friday or Thursday's debt, will it have to pay as much as the real estate tax budget? In short, such an obligation can in fact be tantamount to tax evasion. The effects on people are very, very similar. And here I would ask you to give a very clear answer: What is your concept of indebtedness to this country – especially because this country will not simply fail?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u27	Thank you. The word is from the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Yes, Mr Shircelj, I think there are many reasons for optimism after Friday. There are not many reasons for rejoicing, since there is much more to be done and absolute optimism. In the European Commission's view, our budget is in line with the programme required of us by the European Commission. For the first time in years, we are among the five best countries, only Germany and Estonia are ahead of us, followed by the Netherlands and France. I believe, Mr. Shircelj, that this also gives you optimism. Since this report is also publicly available, I believe that you have looked at it, read it, or else I can give another quote from this report here. And, yes, absolutely there has been a conversion, we have absolutely received confirmation that we are going in the right direction. Of course, the path from what you left us is just a red, minus 4.5 drop in economic activity when I took over government leadership. John Janša was then the president of the government. Negative 4.5. You've been below 3% for the entire period of your government. The first quarter of our government, unfortunately it's still broke, but 1.7. If these are not reasons for optimism, Mr Shircelj, then it is very difficult to understand what can be the reason for optimism. It's a long way from getting things done. We can go again through all the measures that you have discussed thoroughly here in the National Assembly for the past 10 days; first one night and one day on the Committee on Finance, three days here in the National Assembly, but I will stop at the expenditure where you say nothing is done. Of course it doesn't. The agreement that we have concluded with the public sector unions has brought some less than €200 million at the annual savings level, and in the social sector it has also been made for 200 million euros in savings over the last two years. You may want to, I don't know, make a different country with ours – not social and economically successful anymore, but with this Alenka Bratusek and my government will not help you. However, I will stop at two measures on the revenue side. We talked about the property tax earlier, and we talked about it the whole week before. This is a grey economy and a tax gap. I believe that the fight against the grey economy is supported by all. It is not only those measures from the tax work, if I may say so, that it is about preventing employment and working in black, strengthening and improving the integration of inspection services, the system of construction and prevention of black construction, the sectoral measure to improve the regulation of records in the field of health and business, forestry, bakery, tourism, transport services, mining, aviation and could also be listed. The tax gap where we all supported the marriage, I hope you still support it, because I think it is right for those who spend more than they can prove to be to be taxed as we did – by 70%. Last time I gave you information from the Tax Administration that someone with the income of 30,000 euros spends 3 million. It is also unacceptable to launder money, to deposit cash on your accounts through x y persons. I believe you know this very well, but we will absolutely resist this and fight against this and people, that Slovenia is fair, and that those who do this will first pay, 70% of what they cannot say, where they get it, and then they will be punished for it. But, Mr Shircelj, you must admit that Friday's report must also give you reason for optimism.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u29	Thank you. The request to complete the answer is mag. Spread out.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u30	Thank you very much. I would like to request a supplement to the response to the debt, because the President did not mention it in a word. And I said that it's harmful, what's actually happening, to people. It was a closed procedure, which means no one was involved — except the electorate. Who gave 1.5 billion for our bonds? How were interest rates set 4,84? For example, if Chile has 4,42 for the same three-year bond, for example, if Croatia has 4,05, Hungary 4.290, Romania 4.123%. That's what we're talking about. How can you say how great we are if the international markets don't admit it? In fact, this forces the state not to be able to borrow at all on the international market anymore because it did not go into an open procedure because it did not actually go to be able to repay at a lower rate than it now owed. This raises the question of what is going on with this country and whether you are going to over-indebt it so that in fact all debts and interest will no longer be able to be repaid. Next year, 800 million. And where did that money come from?Oh, my God! Where did $1.5 billion come from?Oh, my God! Is this money also checked in the sense that it is pure money? That's what we're interested in today. Why is the closed procedure and who has decided on such a debt at an enormously high interest rate? The markets show us something completely different. For this reason, Madam President, explain, and I ask the President to complete the reply on the debt policy of this country. That depends on future generations, depending on how they live. Do you have the moral right to be in charge of the country to such an extent?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u31	Thank you. The President of the Government has the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u32	Thank you very much. I will say that unfortunately our policy of borrowing is not significantly different from that of you. Mr Šircelj, it must be said that to date your government has carried out the most expensive debt in the independent Republic of Slovenia. At a rate of 5.5. And then you said something like, "For the sake of high demand, Slovenia can be indebted at a significantly lower rate than expected". I don't know what your expectations were, but this assignment is still the most expensive thing Slovenia has ever had. And these are the facts, these are the numbers. The debt programme has been adopted by our government. This commitment was in line with the debt scheme. And as for the recent member, I'm going to say, bad banks, we could know a lot about this work. So I believe that misdirection can in some way also be a political game, but give it to the facts. Please, I also wish, for the first time, that our debt would be lower, and today the interest rates have fallen further, so that obviously Slovenia is on the right track, as confirmed first by the financial markets, as the second decline in interest rates. However, that the debt is not over, as one president has said before me, and I believe that you, an acquaintance of public finances, are also perfectly clear when the end of the debt will be – when we create such large surpluses that we will repay our debts from this. Calculate how much our budget could be if some EUR 3 billion or a little less debt than is due next year from tax revenues. We can end our pensions, we can end our education and whatever else we can find. We can eliminate more than half of the entire social state. If that's your policy, fine. But once again, Alenka Bratusek and my government will not help you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u33	Thank you. A procedural request shall be made by a mag. Spread out.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u34	I have a procedural request to hold a public debate. Madam President, you did not answer the question why we owed 4,84 interest on the closed market, why we took over from someone who probably came to you, whether on Gregorčičeva or on Župančičeva, you offered this money and you accepted that money from him at this rate. Why was the procedure closed? Why was this decision taken before the adoption of the budget, before the European Commission's opinion? As you say, this opinion could only reduce the interest rate, which could actually contribute to the debt at a lower rate. And when you say that Janša's government is in charge of a higher interest rate, Madam President, for ten-year bonds there is a different interest rate than for three-year-olds, so you cannot mix pears and apples. This is a fundamental financial question to be answered here. And again. I actually want to get information on the long-term consequences of such indebtedness for this country and for citizens and citizens. This is about ad hoc decisions, decisions that are unplanned, decisions that are made, we can say, under the table. Who accepts them? Based on what kind of analysis? Why does he accept them? If Minister Cuffer said in Washington that we don't need any debt or debt repayments by April, when we have to pay a billion two hundred, one billion three hundred, or one billion four hundred, or, I don't know, how long it's gonna be since we've already been so indebted. And here's the question. This isn't about swindling. There is no comparison here, Madam President, with the government of Janez Janša. You can always stress it, there is no problem, but you have to look forward, not back. You need to keep looking at how much interest this youth, as discussed in the previous question, will pay your debts. Mr President, I propose that a general discussion be held on the debt policy in the National Assembly. It's not just a matter of this government, it's a matter of future generations. That is why, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I make this announcement or I want it to be done.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u35	Thank you, Mr. Shircel. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 19 November 2013, in the framework of the votes. The fourth question will be raised by Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat, Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u36	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. I welcome the members and members of the Government, of course the honourable Members and Members and all the others present! Dear Madame President of the Government! The Pension and Disability Insurance Act provides for the financing of compulsory pension and disability insurance. Among others, a demographic reserve fund is envisaged as one of the sources. The purpose of this fund is to finance the deficit in the pension fund. The Fund would thus ensure the sustainability of the pension system in the event of a changed demographic and economic situation. It would be used at a time when resources from cumbersome contributions and general taxes would no longer be sufficient. The operation and financing of the latter must be regulated by a special law within two years of the entry into force of the ZPIZ-2, which means until the beginning of 2015. Otherwise, it is time to prepare a legal basis for the establishment of this fund, but we estimate in the DeSUS Group that it is appropriate to prepare simultaneously the legal basis for the establishment of a reserve demographic fund and the amendment of the Slovenian State Holding Act, whose solutions envision the abolition of the Capital Society. If I recall, when he was created to maintain and create added value with the then so-called social property for the purposes of pension and disability insurance. Let me add that an accelerated sale of state property is planned, that pensions have not been harmonised for two years and it will appear that the next two years have already reached out to the annual allowance of pensioners and that the budget pressures to cover the deficit in the pension register are higher from year to year. I ask you, Madam President: Are activities related to the demographic reserve fund already under way? What are these activities? Above all, we are interested in: What funding sources do you expect from the Fund? If the answer is no, please explain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u37	Thank you. I give my word to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u38	The answer is no, but we are dealing with how this is resolved in other countries and where we will find funding for this fund. The idea of establishing a demographic reserve fund as some kind of additional source for co-financing of pension deficits, as we know, developed during negotiations with the social partners when adopting the law on pension and disability insurance. Even though we have said that we will wait one year to see the concrete effects of this so-called pension reform, we can already make it clear that they were significantly smaller, I am speaking financially, as was the case in the National Assembly, when I, as a Member, supported this pension reform. It is said that together we will soon have to bite back into this apple and find new solutions. However, as part of the National Reform Programme, we have pledged that we will draw up a document in the coming year, perhaps we can also call it a new white book on pension reform, the last one being made quite a long way back, 15 years, which would mark the beginning of a broader social and professional debate on the pension system. We also want to compare practices with the fund you are asking me about, and especially in this difficult financial situation it is difficult to find a source of funding for this fund. Indeed, we cannot impose any additional burden on the economy at this time, according to our assessment, if any other contribution is reduced and earmarked for it, but the failure to do so is whether it is medical or otherwise. It is true, however, that all the difference in the pension allowance must be covered by the state budget. And that is why we owe ourselves what my colleague asked me earlier, we are in charge of implementing the budget, including pension payments, and we are in charge of paying off the debt. But we will certainly find a solution within the coalition with which we will be satisfied and will be publicly sustainable. I agree, however, that we must be careful when looking for these solutions; we must not impose too much burden on young people in particular. And once again, the debt, including this debt – a billion and a half, which has been mentioned earlier, can be said to be partly directed, because we do not purposely owe ourselves to this, this and this, but together we are in charge of the implementation of the budget and the repayment of debts, so it seems very important to stress once again that this was not the most expensive task of the Republic of Slovenia. The most expensive debt was made about one year ago. And at that time, respected colleagues, who are now in the opposition, highly praised her for in fact being the greatest achievement of their government.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u39	Thank you. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has a request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Dear Madam President! I would like to say this that I understand the reasons, and we also in the DeSUS Group understand that now is not the time when we could use a large spoon to cover money and set up various funds and so on. I would add, however, that I am glad that you are thinking that we are all aware that these things need to be taken into account and resolved within the scope of the option of course. Thank you very much again.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u41	Thank you. Is there anything else you'd like to add as Prime Minister? [[No, no, ……]] We have concluded the first four questions to the President of the Government, who I thank for the answers given. We are moving on to the answers to the parliamentary questions raised at the 18th meeting of the National Assembly. Minister for Agriculture and the Environment mag. Dejan Židan and Minister of Finance Dr Urošu Cufer will answer the question of Franz Breznik regarding the future of agriculture. Mr. Jew, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u42	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members, and the rest of them present! Allow me to answer you or to answer you in four parts concerning the future of agriculture. First is the income side. This year we have transferred to the agriculture of Slovenian and European money, which is also ours, 256 million euros. In this year's year, we achieved essentially a record of maintaining liquidity in agriculture. By 1.7.2013, we had paid off everything except 80 applications because we had not found a legal successor or other complications. Why is it important to stress this? Because the average of the European Union is 5% at the moment, and we have come below 2%. By the end of the year, we are expected to pay €330 million in total for the various measures that benefit agriculture, as well as forestry and nutrition, and so will payments in 2014 and 2015. That's the revenue side. I must say that we were able to carry out two interventions this year due to natural disasters. The first intervention due to drought in last year was worth €5.6 million. The second intervention was due to damage caused by water. We have also realised the promise of this year's drought, namely that at the end of October, we have been accommodating the most damaged farms already part of the withdrawal of direct payments, which are otherwise paid in 2014. As far as the burden of agriculture is concerned, although then the question of Mr Lach is similar, I will then say more about it. This year we observe two loads. The first burden is due to cadastral income. This is because, as you know, Parliament has agreed unanimously and has also agreed to meet the 10% threshold, which is even lower than last year's. I would also like to inform you that a similar decision has already been taken by the Government for the following and subsequent years. At the moment, an expert group was also working to review the assessment of the deficit and will also propose improvements. As for the burden of agriculture with a new real estate tax, you know my point of view. I wanted agriculture to be recognised as an activity of special social importance which would be exempted. This view, since many similar sectors have then emerged, has not been adopted because it has prevailed the view that everyone has to pay taxes. At that point, however, negotiations began on how to minimise the original proposal as much as possible. And I must say, to some extent, these coordinations have been successful. If a new tax, which was worth almost 60 million, was originally proposed, I am talking about a net effect and a negotiated value of 12 million, I am talking about a net effect. Why the net effect? Because 2 million are already collected for forest roads and then returned to forest roads, and in the future, 3 million will be collected, which will return to forest roads. The third thing that is important for the future of agriculture is, as far as demand within Slovenia and also outside Slovenia is concerned. Here I must say that the campaign that we started to run in 2011 has had an impact after three years. This year, we note that for the first time since we have been more closely monitoring agriculture, demand for Slovenian agricultural raw materials and also products has already exceeded the capacity of current production, which is good, since the higher demand in some way is also the result of production. An additional measure, which I also believe is good, is a measure to open public institutions in Slovenia. Public institutions in Slovenia have annual orders for agricultural raw materials or food products worth € 140 million. A few weeks ago, the government adopted recommendations for ordering local food to public institutions in Slovenia, followed by a circuit of competent ministers. I must say, public institutions are now slowly turning. The only problem is that some have three-year contracts. And when the contracts fall, then they adapt to the new situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Franz Breznik, complement the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Dear Minister of Agriculture, my question was mainly about northeastern Slovenia, especially the area from which I come. This is the area of extensive Slovenian mountains, municipalities Lenart, Cerkvenjak, Benedict, Council of Trojica. In part, I might say, it's a specific area, it's a very hilly area where there's not so much flat land where there's a hard working land. You're not only Minister of Agriculture, but you're also Vice-President of the Government. When you talk about you taking sides, you're not taking too much of a stand. Something is what you say in front of the cameras, and the other is what all these farmers see in the context of the measures taken by this government and in the context of those proposals. For example, the real estate tax did not separate that flat land, for example, from that hardworking mountain land and mountain farms. People can't add any higher added value. These are small farms, as you know, the average size of the Slovenian farm is about 6.5 hectares. As you know, even when we entered the EU, we were told that a farm with fewer than 50 head of livestock or 50 hectares would have to deal with certain activities on the farm in order to survive economically. You have also supported raising VAT, lower and upper levels, which further destroys the competitiveness of Slovenian food producers. As you once said, we import food for more than €1.5 billion. All these measures will reduce these trends, which you have now predicted, as such. This is the question of how these small farms will survive on the market. As I heard at the visit of the Prekmurje Group, you are particularly advocating for the biggest farmers who already have some monopoly and have some advantage on the market. In fact, you favor those who are merchants. That's what bothers me personally. Please give me a specific answer: What is the possibility of survival in Slovenian Gorica for one small farm farmer? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u46	Thank you. My farmers tell me otherwise that they're happy that I'm so committed to them. Maybe two things. It is true that laws are a compromise at the end. One minister can't force his own way, but a compromise can be made. The compromise resulting from the property tax is essentially four or five times less burden than anticipated at the beginning. And there's something else I'd like to say. Most of the farmers I talked to said, "We understand that in the end every tax will be paid, but the minister, please, does not make agriculture disproportionately burdened." And I believe that's what was done with that tax. As for small farms, I'm the minister for all farms, so small, medium, big. That's how I act. And since this led this ministry, we also discussed very important things for our small farmers. And this is a scheme for small farms that has been adopted in Slovenia, which the European Union has adopted on our initiative and several other friendly countries. This means that the small farm will have significantly easier work, much less administration, once every seven years will conclude a contractual relationship with the country and will be able to live in some way without continuing to have some administrative constraints. But I agree with something else. This is that it is the period that must be, and this is the period of integration of agriculture. Connecting agriculture is still a cancer wound at the moment. I'm talking about a business connection. That each farmer would possibly be a member of the agricultural cooperative. The cooperatives will have at least joint acquisitions and joint sales. In Slovenia, there are well-known studies on the positive effect of such mergers, namely only on the purchase page of 5, 10 and up to 35 million euros, and on the other hand, on the sales side, more. The problem is that only so-called soft measures can be managed by the Ministry. The Ministry cannot prescribe the way in which business integration is carried out, but we can appeal and we can run calls in such a way that the units where farmers unite are equally equal. They're farm cooperatives. And that's what we're doing. The Ministry has also launched its first sectoral integration calls. These calls were also successful, so I believe that we are not going in the right direction. Nevertheless, at the end of the day, Slovenian farmers were often – and all food production – on impact because we did not realize in the past in Slovenia how important it is to reach out for our local Slovenian food. This, if anything, I believe that you will also admit, and in this area we have taken a very big step forward. And when food has its customer, which does not choose between quality domestic food or some dumped imports from abroad, then farmers, agriculture and food are safer. We're in this state right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u47	Thank you. Time's practically up. Nine seconds. Minister of Finance, will you make a brief addition? That's not necessary. Thank you very much. First, you want the procedure. I'm sorry. Here you are, Mr. Franz Breznik, you have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u48	See, in the last part we can agree, I think there is almost no Member of the National Assembly here who would not agree that the future of Slovenian agriculture is that we produce as much domestic food as possible. But so far, you've been talking about measures. I propose, on the basis of a Rule of Procedure, that we open a public debate at one of the next meetings, where the Minister will have the opportunity to tell what measures he has decided to protect mountain farms, the Slovenian Mountains, to protect Goričko, where he is close to home, because I have completely different information from him. I am told, despite not having a bad relationship with the minister, that he is a gravedigger of Slovenian agriculture, that he is one that speaks in front of the camera and the other is action. If anyone says in front of the cameras how they stand up, and on the other hand, you know, home food is fine, but these people have to survive, they have to make a profit. [[...]] The essence of the market economy is to have profit when you produce domestic food. However, if you give additional costs to a farmer, several times the tax on property on small farms where it is difficult to survive, not all farmers are large farmers who own whole types of flat land or own a country. And here's the problem we have. We have a whole range of farms, and when these farmers turn a few miles across the border, they find that these things work. The Minister of Finance here hasn't answered me a bit about the economic effects on this industry. I would also ask him in this work to warn the President of the Government that she would even know what three-year-olds are and what ten-year bonds are. What I have heard today, however, I am deeply concerned that the President of the Government does not separate three-year and ten-year bonds to say that Janša's government is in charge of 5.5%. This government has never in its entire mandate come under 5.5% of the mandatory yield of ten-year bonds. It's a total delusion. Austria has 0.25% return on three-year bonds and we have 4.84. That's what worries me. Through this, farmers also rent much larger loans. I think that's clear. This is clear to all who have some slight economic knowledge. You don't need an economics college, you don't need a master's degree or a doctorate. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u49	Procedural proposal, please refer to the procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u50	Look, I've had it before, and I'm gonna tell it again. I would ask that we open a public debate on whether agriculture is a sector, especially in these smaller farms. Because of the historical circumstances, when the predecessor of this party destroyed Slovenian agriculture, expelled large farmers, made out of these literally small winemakers, they cannot survive in the Slovenian Gorica and ask for years and years to have the opportunity to survive. And these farms have a chance of survival. At the same time, you're saying that everyone's going grey economy. When everyone fled because they cannot survive economically, young people flee to the city or abroad and help older people there, so that this farm can function as much as it can. The situation is alarming in the field of agriculture. Please open this debate so that I will not be over-voted and tell how agriculture can survive in Slovenian Gorica, Lenart, Church, Benedict in St. Trinity, St. George, because people tell me quite differently than you say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u51	Thank you very much. In accordance with your proposal, we will decide in the framework of the vote tomorrow, Tuesday, 19 November 2013. Here you go, mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President! I don't want to stall, but I do. Today, I reiterate that when Members and Members refer to Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure and request a debate, they replace certain terms, namely, the general debate, the public debate, anything else, but paragraph 246 of the second paragraph of Article 246 only speaks of the discussion of the reply, which means that this debate is linked to the level of satisfaction or dissatisfaction of the Member with the reply of the Minister. This is not a debate on the subject, but it is a debate on the answer. I would therefore kindly ask you to warn Members and Members of Parliament of this matter, because I have also listened to your answers. Normally you explain and you try to be gentle and you just say debate. But it's only right that these things are clearly defined. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u53	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Spending. I agree with your procedural proposal and we will all stick together in accordance with the rules of procedure. We are moving on to the next Member question or answer the question. Minister for Agriculture and the Environment mag. Dejan Židan will answer Mr Zvonk Lah's question about double taxation of agricultural land. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u54	Thank you, Madam President. Greetings, Mr Member, and thank you for the question. Allow me to answer in two sets. First of all, I am talking about cadastral income, which has actually fallen flat in terms of activity. Here I have to find that last year the cadastral income of €64 million has been calculated. This year, as there was also pressure to include the agricultural ministry, the agricultural sector and others, the calculation is significantly lower and amounts to 48 million euros. Since it has been found that there are a lot of open issues in this law, from how it is possible that different parts of Slovenia have so many different rates of taxation or why Pomurje or Podravje have significantly lower cadastral income for the field than for example Koroška or Gorenjska, and many other things, the Agriculture and Rural Council, which my consultative body has discussed and proposed, and I must say that the government has also accepted the proposals. The first proposal was to appoint an expert group as soon as possible, where, in addition to representatives of the three ministries and subordinate bodies, there are experts appointed by the three non-governmental organisations that cover agriculture most, namely the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber, the Trade Union and the Association. At the same time, we also appointed experts from the Agricultural Institute. These experts have started work, will review the calculations, propose what needs to be changed, and with a simple reason to get to the professional, reasonable and fair calculation of the agricultural flat. At the same time, the Government also concluded that, in the interests of the security of the agricultural area and farmers, this principle, the maximum security plus ten, would continue to apply. And in my opinion, we've made the system safer in this area. As far as real estate tax is concerned, I've said it before. It was felt in this country that everyone had to pay taxes and then the struggle for agricultural space began so that they would not be overtaxed. The first tax was, speaking of this net effect, almost 60 million, which is very much. At that time, some goals were set. The first objective was to exempt areas where there is no production, i.e. non-productive agricultural area and protected forest, which was also agreed at the last government meeting. Another principle was that because of the unusual calculation of the Geodetic Authority, there must be a fuse so that the incompetence or poor calculation does not result in severe deviations. A permanent cap was proposed, a maximum of 20 euros per hectare for agricultural areas and a maximum of 5 euros per hectare per forest area. This was also accepted at the last government meeting, which I am pleased to do. However, certain tax rates have also changed so that the current recovery is made. As far as the taxation of the forest, which has already been around € 1.9 million, is concerned, according to the new €3 million. As he went before, now this money goes back to repairing the forest roads. As far as the taxation of buildings in agriculture is concerned, it is fortunate that these buildings are highly under-estimated and that the taxation of these 2 million 153 is based on the indicative calculations available to me. And third, they're agricultural land. However, for agricultural land, when the proposal for taxation has been reduced and the cap introduced is taken into account, even though the land is at sea or near large cities, where the speculative sales make it impossible to make the calculations, a cap of 20 and 5 is taken into account, and the calculation of this 8 million 878 thousand euro. In the end, I can tell you whether I'm happy as a farm minister. Of course not. Everyone doesn't want to have a tax, everyone is afraid of a tax, everyone would want a tax if it wasn't, but it's been seized, and all I have to say is that the government or the competent ministry has reduced their original plans by four or five times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Lah, supplement the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Good-bye, distinguished minister! I asked this question a month ago, before the adoption of this tax, but we heard today on the committee that changes will be prepared because a lot of things are not well arranged. You told me about the cadastral, that there will be some adjustments, and I welcome that. Of course, we expect a new law, which will apply for 2014, because the marriage is not yet covered. Nevertheless, farmers' income calculations take into account subsidies in the following year 100 %, now only 50 %, so that the income will be much higher than it has been so far. This is the flat rate tax, and the second is the real estate tax. You yourself said on the committee that you were in the European Union in Luxembourg and that you heard there that they do not have this tax and that you also advocate that we should not have this tax. However, this tax is and according to the agricultural situation, given the report that we have considered on the Committee in 2012, any additional tax may be a disaster for agriculture. The recovery in 2013 is still higher than it has been so far, the factor income in 2012 is 12% lower than in the previous year, that before us the elimination of milk quotas, which will particularly affect the competitiveness of our agriculture in this part and that taxes on agricultural land are disproportionate in terms of areas in Slovenia, say the forest somewhere in Sežana, which burned 10 years ago, and the forest in Kočev, which has 400 cubic metres per hectare of wood, or the price of land in Gorenjska [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u57	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u58	Thank you, Madam President. I can actually find that the calculations of values are so very different and that was why it was so important to introduce the cap. The calculations are designed to make the Geodetic Authority calculate so that this is not essentially the value of the land through the ratings and so on, but through statistically perceived sales values. And there are very severe deviations where there is also a lot of shopping for some speculative purposes. So I have to say, as far as this is concerned, the cap solves this problem. As far as income is concerned, it is a fact that taxation of direct payments rather than agricultural policy measures such as direct payments and remuneration for work in areas where it is more difficult to operate. So let's say 75% of the current agricultural land, which are areas where it's harder to grow, and we're paying 42 million OMD plus these 40 million for special measures than superstandards. It won't be taxed there either. But they're direct. But this is because of past adopted laws, which are not now, and also the previous government, that is to say, they have not changed. True, it must be said that where it is taxed, all payments are normally taxed. In Slovenia there was some consensus years ago that there was tax in half. I agree that every tax is bad. It would be ideal to lower taxes. But then the government's decision was what it was. But I must say, to some extent, it is also social. Because after this tax, the one who has nothing will be taxed, the one who has little will be taxed a little, the one who has much, but will be heavily taxed. And that, I think, is a principle that we all represent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Procedural proposal. Here you go, Mr. Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u60	In the light of Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that the debate be held on the answer, as we have been taught, to this question of my mission. But I argue with this, the Minister, what you said last -- the one who has nothing will pay nothing, the one who has more will pay more. In the countryside we have many farms, where they remain older, even over 70 years old, which do not have food production or agricultural land processing at all. And they also have agricultural facilities that are in a state of decay because young people have moved away because the farm has been giving them no income or has not been able to survive. Now they're going to pay you taxes on agricultural facilities, and as much as they will, and on agricultural land, they don't have anything from the sale of agricultural crops. That's how I understand it. The average farm of 6 hectares can't survive, can't pay one job on this farm. Now the jobs no longer allow, there is no more working hours from 6 a.m. to 14 p.m. that a person can still farm at home. It's just not possible anymore. And if we don't activate these farms back to produce something, something will be sold, which will probably also allow for a new European agricultural policy for rural development, where the operational programme, as far as I know, has not yet been adopted. And all of these services, which you mentioned earlier, need to be activated in this direction in order to revive these small farms, which are now practically at rest or are failing. When we were Members of Parliament on a visit to Goričko, we saw many of these cases, as well as in Dolenjska. That's why I'm worried about this new tax. We have also heard this from people who are practically on social benefits, and besides maintaining this agricultural land, they are already using their low pensions or other social benefits, and now they will be paying taxes on agricultural facilities and on land. In addition, this tax will be transferred to rents. Just as in social housing, it will be here, because all owners will account for the rent when they offer this land to larger farmers, who are now mainly processing it. This will mean additional non-competitiveness for these larger farmers who are currently processing this land. I therefore propose that this be discussed because it will help to improve the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Minister for Agriculture and the Environment mag. Dejan Židan will answer Mr Ivan Grill's question regarding the amendment of the legislation on the implementation of the chimney activity. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u62	Thank you, Madam President. I thank you too, Mr Ivan Grill. But it is now something new, and this is that the National Assembly has adopted a change to the Environmental Protection Act, where what we have finally adopted is what we have, I think, all of us in this country stand for. And that is that each of us has the right to choose for himself who performs the chimney service at home. What was under discussion was whether or not the transitional period should be one year, in the end it was agreed that it would be two years, so that by 1. 1. 2016 or, if you want, at 31. 12. 2015 The concession system we have needs to be discontinued and we are going to go free. I understand why a two-year period should be completed because the register of combustion plants which is currently being filled is not yet complete. I would also like to say when Germany, because we often use it as an example, had to take three years from cehovian to a more market system. So I think the current decision for a two-year transitional period is reasonable. What will be the final system, we will talk, and we will follow that each one of us has the right to choose for himself. We need to be aware that whoever has a combustion plant has a duty. This is about protecting ourselves and others who live in our vicinity, so standards will be prescribed for what needs to be done. Each one will decide with whom to do so, what needs to be done to protect people and also to protect people’s property. I would also like to inform you that we have received the Court of Auditors' post-post-review report, which has pointed out from year to year how inappropriate the situation is in this area and has assessed all measures as appropriate. There was none that was only partially appropriate, but all the measures were appropriate. After the adoption of the amendment of the Law in the National Assembly, I myself have also met with civil initiatives that have led to legitimate proof that such a system is likely to be unconstitutional, and that it is probably contrary to what the European Union prescribes, as regards the free market, not only material and goods, but also works, i.e. services, and I have proposed, as far as I understand, that this initiative will be accepted by their representatives and also by all others in the working group preparing the basis for the new system. Then there will be no more long-standing concession contracts, but the gap will simply be filled by 1. 1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Request for complete response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u64	Thank you very much. This issue is significantly longer than you have dealt with it yourself as Minister. However, as you have already mentioned, the National Assembly has adopted an amendment to the legislation, which does not essentially solve this situation and the problems will continue in the future. In view of the fact that I also asked you what you think about the opinion of the former Constitutional Judge, who, on his 40 pages of the report, somehow also notes the unconstitutionality of the existing regime, existing legislation, it would probably be necessary to consider a new law that would regulate it in accordance with the Constitution and also in accordance with the principle of adequate fire safety in Slovenia. Given that you mentioned that a civil initiative has already had an interview with you, I would ask you if you had received from them a proposal for a law that we Members have received. The law is relatively short. I think that the solutions inside are regulating this area, probably flawed, but the direction that is drawn is the right one. So I would ask you if you could say: What is your opinion, will you be doing this revision of legislation in due course? This is not going through the night, but given that this matter has been going on for several years, I believe that there are also some drafts that could contribute to an arrangement that will be European comparable, constitutional and that fire safety in Slovenia will be appropriate. What we have now is also noted by the Anti-Corruption Commission, is also the subject of corruption, illegality, many irregularities, dissatisfaction of users, and in particular we can read every year about many fires in our homes, which is also, of course, the result of being poorly regulated. How do you feel about the constitutional judgment of this and the proposal of this law, which they have written in the civil initiative itself? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u65	Mr. Minister, supplement the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u66	Yeah, I'm aware. We were also given a report at this meeting, and I think it has almost 40 pages, a former constitutional judge. And we also take that into account now that we are changing the legal order. But the goal is next. The goal is not to have every activity regulated in Slovenia's law, since we already have an over-regulated area of law. It is not a problem for Slovenia to have too few laws, we have too many, and too few are implemented. The aim is that, with what has changed, this gives free regulation through other legal acts, such as regulations, we can also switch to the market system in the area of chimneys. The legal framework in the background will be the government's regulation. We need our time. It is necessary to say, and also later to answer the specific question, we have begun to change the system. The amount of skeletons falling out of the closet is incredibly large. We're barely hunting these skeletons, and we're saving them this time. And this has been acknowledged by the Court of Auditors in its response report. I believe that, over a period of two years, we are able to go to some normal system that will benefit and please our citizens. Or would I hope to predict that we would move faster because we have experience from a larger country, which is also well organised, but it needed to go from a system that was not in accordance with European law for three years, without us starting from nothing, it would be easier, but we are starting with awarded concession contracts that have a claim to the country, it was our assessment that the two-year period is when we settle matters. There's something else I'd like to point out. We have a goal, which the law now requires us to be on a completely new market, more environmentally friendly people in two years' time, and despite all the greatest irregularities currently identified, we are solving. Not long ago, I think a week ago, a government regulation was corrected in this direction, which gives us a greater opportunity to sanction and withdraw concessions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u67	Thank you very much. You probably don't have a procedural proposal. We're moving on to the next answer. Minister for Agriculture and the Environment mag. Dean Jedhan will answer the question of the Magi. Majde Potrat related to the protection of the wolf in Slovenia. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u68	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Members, I thank you for the very up-to-date question on how to sustain the wolf population in Slovenia. What we are aware of, however, is that many of us do not know, when we observe the Slovenian wolf population, which is relatively small, from 30 to 50, we observe the same dinar population of wolves, which are part of our wolves, which is 5,000 animals. And we live on that edge. In the past we have, now we know, the wrong attitude towards this population and the state believes that it can regulate their behaviour and numericality by shootings or shootings alone. Then, according to some recent knowledge of the profession, a mistake was made. Why? Because when it reaches only by shooting into the wolf population, even tropics with alpha male, alpha female, break and then begin to behave by doing even greater damage to both the environment and specific agricultural production. At the same time, we have been so made in the legislation that it has led the state to enable those at risk, particularly the livestock breeders, to benefit from State aid, but it has not suggested that they must. As a result, we had a system that didn't work, a system that was at the annual level, at least as far as compensation was concerned, reached a quarter of a million euros or more, that is money that the country also had a hard time providing, while some sheep populations were not protected by the rules of good practice. We are now moving on to such a system, so legislation will have to be amended to allow those who are threatened by these wolves to gain such protection by state money as is possible, whether it is a fence or a fence, whether it is a specific kind of dog or something. The State will finance such safeguards. Agricultural advisory services will advise our farmers what they recommend to do. In some ways, however, it will be the duty of the specific owner of the animals to take advantage of these measures available to the State. If they are advised and do not take advantage of the measures, then it will no longer be right to ask the State for assistance if there are massacres. If the measures to be taken by the advisory services and financed by the State from co-financing are also implemented, even if they are not 100 %, then the country will also continue to jump for assistance. I would also like to say that in the future, as regards the regulated wolf population, the Ministry will only decide on the way in which the expert organisations have to be consulted by the Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Request for complete response. Mag. Majda Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u70	Thank you, Minister, for this part of the answer. Slovenia is not the only one with problems in regulating the coexistence of large beasts in nature. Let us remember how the Slovenian bears, these specimens, which were sent to France, Italy or Spain, ended. But it is also about the financing of the SloWolf project from European funds and the financing of this project was also to promote public awareness of the coexistence of beast and man. Today it is also possible to read in public literature the title that the beasts stop the construction of the windmill. Well, I can't imagine the beasts stopping the construction of windmills, but here is very interesting information that the first detailed study on the return of wild animals to Europe — three organizations have done this research, found that wolves, zoos, beavers and other animals are returning, all contributing to biodiversity. And it seems to me that in my first question, the part about rice and jackal was added, which would all help with biodiversity. In the first part of the answer, however, you put the question in the language of complementing it. In fact, you said we were also watching dinar wolves. With Croatia's entry into the European Union, Croatia will also have to comply with the directives imposed by nature 2000 and other acts on the protection of large beasts. Is there any cooperation involved here? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u71	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u72	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. I must say that Croatia is like us, a country that has very much territory under the Habitat Directive, that is, under Natura. I think it's 37%. The first ministerial and ministry-level talks are also taking place to essentially exchange experiences. Otherwise, the Ministry has a restrictive approach to the use of shooting as a method of regulating, so we only accept it when the profession suggests it unanimously. We don't really want to have any other markings. We do not have such a relationship just as far as the jackal is concerned, because we do not see any need for withdrawal, because there is no professional assessment, nor do we see such a relationship in the lynx, because there is no estimate that it is overly present, to the contrary. And now we are preparing, as we already have for the wolf, an action plan for the lynx. Let me take this opportunity, and we don't want to change that attitude as far as shooting birds are concerned. The ministry has a very clear position in this composition, and this is that hunting is appropriate when it comes to urgently necessary regulation of the number of individual species of animals, but in fact we do not understand that shooting animals that are not enough are rare, only because of hunting pleasures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The Minister of Finance, Dr Uroš Cufer, will first answer Mr Ivan Hršak's questions regarding the planned reorganisation of tax offices in the Republic of Slovenia. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u74	Thank you so much for asking. I might point out at the outset that the merger activities at the tax offices are still in progress and that in all details it is still premature to speak. It is true, however, that the Hrastnik Tax Office is not to be abolished, but we intend to unite it together with the Celje Tax Office and Velenje Tax Office, which is to be established in Celje. In combining tax offices, we are pursuing the goal of creating as efficient and comparable organisational units as possible, both by number of employees and by number of debtors and by the amount of public financial revenue collected.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u75	Mr Ivan Hršak has a request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, Madam President. You answered my question that it was not the abolition of the Hrastnik Tax Office, but the merger with the Celje Tax Office. So I want to know: What is the difference between the abolition of the Hrastnik Tax Office or the merger with the Celje Tax Office? How does this relate to these additional costs if they are assigned employees instead of working in Hrastnik, they will drive to Celje? And, of course, in terms of the availability of taxpayers, if all things can now be settled in Hrastnik, many will now have to be settled in Celje. That's why it doesn't seem right for you to use the term "association", "association", and in fact that means the abolition of the Hrastnik Tax Office. There will be no more tax office in Hrastnik. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact in practice when tax offices were introduced on 1 July and certain exposures were abolished. Let's just say, just for instance, Lithia. When I received a reply from the municipality of Lithium, there was an exposition in Lithuania, where more people were employed, that they could handle matters on the spot for taxpayers, and now there are only two workers in 500 square metres and they work twice a week, they say they can’t actually handle everything. In fact, in these tax exposures — this applies to the whole of Slovenia — only some of the applications can be made by citizens, the taxpayers. Then they wait for them to settle these matters at a certain tax office, waiting for them to notify them that they will be able to come back and settle these matters again within a certain period of time. I see that the accessibility of taxpayers in this direction is being reduced when the reorganisation takes place. But I would also like you to give me a written answer: What were the actual savings by the introduction of these tax offices? [[...]] [[microphone assembly]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Complementary response. Minister Dr. Chufer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u78	Let me begin with the difference between termination and merger. The key issue is that in the event of termination, the number of employees will also be reduced. As a matter of fact, when it merges, all employees join together in the same tax administration, which means that they retain jobs. In this way, it is possible to place a critical mass of the size of one tax administration which allows tax administrations to specialize in individual types of tax tasks. The way we have our tax offices, and then our expositions, is that we have everything everywhere. This leads to quite a potential inefficiency, because then there is no critical mass of knowledge that a single function can be much more precisely at one end of the work. If we want to have a model with which, on the one hand, we could have specialization and sufficient expertise in each area and at the same time have a decentralised model, which means that not only in Ljubljana, but also in individual regions of Slovenia, it is absolutely necessary to create tax administrations with a critical mass of employees and a critical mass of knowledge in order to be able to specialize. As regards the services of taxpayers and the presence of taxpayers on the ground, the story is on the one hand in terms of exposure, meaning that we are still maintaining a certain physical presence, but only in that process of the tax office which actually relates to contact with taxpayers. In doing so, it should also be borne in mind that the trend in the business of citizens with tax administration is very fast moving on the Internet. This is actually a new fact that needs to be taken into account and is at an ever-increasing scale. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The Minister of Finance, Dr Uroš Cufer, will answer Mr Franz Puksic's question regarding measures in the area of money laundering suspicions in the mass flow of funds from the Slovenian economy abroad. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u80	Thank you very much for that question. In fact, we do not talk very often about this point in Slovenia, but I think we should say more about it at some point, given the situation and the situation we are in. That's why I said I'd take this opportunity and maybe even present a number more. The first thing I would mention is that, at the time of 1 April this year, corresponding to the approximate time when I took office myself, by 1 November, the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering received 325 reports of suspicious transactions. He sent 37 notifications to the police or to the prosecution, indicating the 143 natural persons and 82 legal persons involved in transactions totalling more than €170 million, where the potential suspected crime of money laundering was detected. In addition, an additional 20 information concerning 70 natural persons and 49 legal persons was provided to the Police and other competent institutions, mostly to the DURS, amounting to around €42 million, where the suspicions of other crimes are detected. During this period, the police, on the basis of notices from the Anti-Money Laundering Office, transmitted 80 criminal complaints in which €5 million and €1.4 million of fines were imposed or conditional, criminal or by-law penalties. The Office also participated in the investigation of offences in two specialised investigation teams and in six financial investigations into the identification of assets of illegal origin. So much for once as an explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u81	Thank you very much. I see that Mr Puksic is not here now if you would like to complete the answer. We're moving on to the next answer. The Minister of Finance, Dr. Uroš Cuffer, will answer the question of mag. Andrej Širclja in connection with new taxes and collection of taxes on the basis of special actions of the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Let me explain that, at the beginning of October this year, the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, as part of our campaign to prosecute the grey economy, has also begun to exercise increased control and has begun to exercise control activities by using the power to prohibit the management of activities as a complementary mechanism complementing the operation on one side of the tax office, which allows the consolidation of the customs administration and the tax administration to increase the number of inspectors who have led to a more visible result of the tax administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Request for complete response. Mag. Andrey Shircelj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u84	Thank you very much. The fact is, on the one hand, that this government raises taxes and raised them, on the other hand, individual actions are taken by individual taxpayers. I'd like to know more about: What are the financial effects of these actions? Is more money collected or less money collected? How many people are actually involved in these actions, how many inspectors and, of course, others? As we can see, the customs administration is also involved here, when, I will say, it simply closes a certain cafe, pizza, tavern, volcanoers are now probably on the wallpaper, formerly florists and so on. How much less money might this result in being collected in some other areas? In particular, because a number of tax inspectors and customs inspectors are involved in these actions. In short, what is the financial impact of this. After all, I think that the tax administration is comparatively likely to have data in relation to 2012. There were similar actions back then. What exactly is this plot if, of course, the Minister has this information? Such actions can also be a court sword. Certainly these are acts of intimidation. On the other hand, the double sword is mainly due to the fact that, at high taxes, so much tax is simply not collected and, then, there is a matter of economy at all. However, it has always been accompanied or over-probably by television cameras, with journalists. Here's this connection and maybe it's an extra charge for the tax administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u85	Here you go, Mr. Secretary. Complementary Response.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u86	From 1. 7. Further, when Croatia joined the European Union, customs officers at the border were no longer needed and could take part in these actions, 4000 330 tax controls in cash were issued. We are now preparing a review of the effectiveness of these actions, to see what is actually the outcome of these actions. This will also be properly presented when we look at whether we are achieving the objectives that we have set ourselves, whether any other procedure in order to achieve these objectives needs to be properly adapted and complemented in order to be even more effective.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u87	Here you go. Procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Vice President. I will make a procedural proposal for a tax collection strategy to be discussed in the National Assembly under the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In particular, because these actions may not actually have a sufficient financial impact because, according to some data which is public data, in 2012, in the first ten months, I am talking only about the first ten months of 2012 because I am comparing the period for a period of around 112 million tax. In the first ten months of 2013, despite all these actions, which are popular or you want to present to the public, 88.6 million. Which means that these actions actually don't help to collect more taxes, but even vice versa. Less tax. I am also looking forward to the analysis made by the Ministry of Finance and may say that this is not the right data to be any other. But there's no such thing as simple data. The second question is how much less tax has been collected in other areas. When this debate is held by the National Assembly, I am pleased and think that this debate will also contribute to greater efficiency of the tax administration and to better tax collection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u89	Thank you very much. About your proposal, Mag. Shirtzelj will decide tomorrow, 19 November 2013, in the framework of the vote. We are moving to the next answer, namely, Dr. Uroš Čufer, Minister of Finance, has 30 seconds to answer the question of mag. Andrej Visiak concerning the reorganisation of administrative units and customs and tax administrations. Do you want to fill out the reply? Mr. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u90	Maybe just for a little while. In view of what my colleague, Minister Virant, has already responded to the previous meeting when I was not present, I would say that I do not have enough to add to what I have said. Regarding centralisation and decentralisation and the creation of centres with sufficient knowledge for some kind of specialisation of competent centres within this, I explained in my previous reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Given that time was available for you too, respected magus. The visa used, here I have a full time stamp, and also a procedural proposal you have made for a discussion in response. Do you have anything else? Procedurally. Second procedural proposal. Here you go, mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u92	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, we did not decide on this procedural proposal at the meeting of the National Assembly. With regard to Mr. Virant's response. But they're both complete, and they're very connected. I therefore propose that this be decided. Look at you, Minister! Today we have 12 statistical and 12 development regions in Slovenia. It is no coincidence that some state authorities are present in these regions, including the tax and customs administrations. And it is not true that in some of these regions these are poor parts, not even tax and customs administrations. The Brežica Tax Office, as well as the Brežica Customs Office, which are in the Posav statistical region, are both after the case and after the professional qualifications, i.e. after this critical mass of the profession. There is therefore no argument at the level of some other regions such as Dolenska, such as some others, after the closure of these regions. I don't really know how to explain it, as if it were some attempt at centralisation and also a withdrawal for completely different, not professional reasons, I'm not going to speculate on political reasons. I think that's unacceptable. I think we need to discuss in this Parliament in a transparent way how much there will be in future regions, how much so will these regional organisational units of the country, which has its hunters throughout the territory. In doing so, I would advise you to follow the path of Minister Virant, who has already promised to examine the matter from the point of view of the 12th, it is said that you would take into account the current regional arrangements and that financial administrations would not be some kind of pressure on a purely other provinceal division, such as Slovenia in eight regions. I must say that this call would also prove to you one political wisdom, you're just a minister, some kind of official. Look, the whole opposition is having trouble going here on some prejudgment number 8. Also part of the coalition. You have already received the Member of Parliament from Hrastnik today, and I think the Ambassador from Zagorje is very skeptical that I am not talking about the Member from Slovenia. These are all coalition members. It would not be wise to possibly, you know, make certain decisions here in Parliament beyond your will. It would be wiser if you could also take a decision on the basis of the discussion I propose, a decision that will be this minimum consensus, even when we are talking about a political level. So I suggest a 12 instead of an eight. By the way, when you sent a law on financial management to Parliament, you avoided the regulation under Article 9. All other regulations are: on uniforms, on weapons only, on these Regulations [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u93	Thank you very much. It's a precedent in a case like yours. A visor. It has already been decided on one procedural proposal, but no matter what, we will also put forward your procedural proposal on the response of the Minister of Finance, Dr Uroš Cufer, to the decision tomorrow, 19 November 2013, in the framework of the vote. We are moving on to questions of Members and Members. He will be the first to raise the question of the Magi. Mr Andrej Vizjak to the Minister for Economic Development and Technology mag. Stanko Stepišnik and Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anji Kopač Dark. Here you go, mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Dear Minister! The central issue is addressed to the Minister for the Economy and, in part, to the Minister for Labour, the Family and Equal Opportunities, the Social, the Disabled, the Young. Data on the unemployment rate in Slovenia are worrying and are unfortunately growing. If we look at October 2012 and October 2013, there are about 8 thousand more unemployed. I would really like to ask you to compare monthly data, because if we compare March to October, this will distort the picture, and this is not a correct comparison. Look, here I have a graph of how the unemployment rate went up compared to October-October-October. The bottom line is October 2011, then October 2012, or age groups, and the curves show how unemployment rates are practically increasing in all age groups after years. And it is noted that in October 2013 it is record-breaking and that it has increased significantly in view of the unemployment rate in October 2012. This is, in my opinion, the result of mainly problematic economic policies or policies for creating new jobs. I am a great opponent of active employment policy measures, even if the job is not clear there, we get some government money and then we end up practically leaving or, let's say, when we encourage self-employment, we find ourselves in even more difficult troubles. There is therefore no effective fight against unemployment without new jobs. And here, Mr. Stepišnik, we have a policy of defeat, according to my judgment. Actually, we have anti-politics. We have a policy to make it difficult for economic operators to do business with new taxes, not least with reckless moves. One of these is about systemic delinquency. Today, on the Justice Committee, we have considered a proposal for a bankruptcy law that is not applicable to most Slovenian economies – not for small businesses. This preventive restructuring, which is supposed to be some pre-insolvency procedure where companies are expected to recover, does not apply to small companies. It only applies to big and medium. I want to say that there are no appropriate and effective economic policy measures at horizontal level, there is some selective distribution of money to your companies, and there is a respected minister, and there is no policy closer to companies, but there is no climate to create for the economy that would create new jobs. More. Economists argue that they will not open new plants until such policies are in place. That's why I'm asking you, Minister: What horizontal measures will you put in place to create new jobs and how many will there be? And, Madam Secretary, I ask: How will active policy measures adapt to this?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u95	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u96	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Thank you very much for the question, Mr. Vizjak. Given that my life has been in the economy all along, and in fact, when I took over a company, there were 70 employees, now around 187 of them, 50% of them with high education, I think you trust me so much that I know how to create a new job and what it takes. At the state level, the economic situation is as we have taken it. And new jobs don't grow like mushrooms in the rain, but a supportive environment needs to be created. During the first seven months we examined, examined over 100 companies in Slovenia and found out what the situation was. I'd only like to hear what's very important. The first is that companies do not receive financial resources, it is said that they cannot reach credits. Secondly, what is very hot in these companies is that they do not renovate, innovate their products and thus reduce the opportunity to increase their competitive capacity, spread technological processes and employ new people. The third very burning problem of the Slovenian economy, which differs from the other economy in Europe, is an inadequate capital structure, since since 1990 it was such a property as it was, the Slovenian economy was owned with insufficient equity, there were too many credits, debt capital and when the company somehow wanted to capture the competitiveness of Europe or the world, it had to be committed either to new personnel or to modernise the technological process or to new products or to purchase patents. And again, the debt capital in the company has increased. The recession has come, prices have fallen, companies have fallen into a liquidity trap, and today they are barely paying off those short-term loans they have to the bank. And the third sign is that for all major companies, it is so obvious that the average age of employees is up to 50 years, but we know that for a company that wants to absorb technological knowledge from a world that has developmental research potential, the initiative is about 35 to 40 years old the average age of that right. To create jobs at the entrepreneurial level means that the company must have sound finances. If the enterprise does not have sound finances, if the company is not business oriented towards a larger business outcome, then it does not employ because it does not invest. That is why we have decided to make three systemic guidelines at the Ministry of Economy. The first system direction is to help businesses get over their credits now. As you know, a lot of action has been taken here. One of the most powerful measures is financial engineering. This is called a loan with the help of the SID bank and the country around 500 million. Since this is a ten-year period it is a revolving loan, it is repeated, because it is also a loan for two years, three years, so it will be available to billions. We estimate that approximately 30,000 new jobs will be maintained or re-established to finance over 100 companies or thousands of projects. The second measure, when it comes to the capital adequacy of companies, has been the last time you have heard that 200 million is foreseen in the next year to help these companies to make capital adequacy, but of course they lose their property. In doing so, we have already helped companies with systemic deleveraging, according to legislation. This makes it possible for commercial banks to convert their loans into equity shares to become a larger owner of certain companies. This ownership or share of ownership is sold on the market, either alone or through an organised market that will be established in Slovenia. As commercial banks convert their commercial loans into equity, the company becomes creditworthy, financially viable, of course, it also needs to restructure development, business and financial. In this way the company can again receive credit, expand its production process and become a reliable partner to a foreign partner, what we want the economy to become a stable partner to the foreign economy. And in this way the employment of young people will begin again, because today these companies have only mild forgiveness and not employment. The third system measure, however, is the increase in the value added in the company. It is known that the Slovenian economy is more material than intellectual, since we have, say, 78 billion revenue from the Slovenian economy, only 9 billion is paid, and 16 billion is added value, about three times less than in Austria and Germany. Therefore, all the incentives and calls for proposals are [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Request for complete response. Mag. Andrei Visjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u98	Thank you very much. For the first time, only the minister spoke, and yet he did not say everything, except that a respected colleague, the Minister of Labour, would leave a sentence. My supplementary question may only concern the answer. To that answer that there wasn't. And look, Minister Stepišnik, you have listed a number of problems that are serious problems of the Slovenian economy. However, you listed solutions that will be based on some of the public tenders, that is to say, a selective company that will get that company that is probably not close or whatever, but will not get that money. The economic policy, the distinguished minister, did not give way. A key economic policy is that it is horizontal, that it applies to all businesses, that they succeed and develop, create jobs, raise added value and reach credit resources. But you mentioned some revolving loans via the SID bank, you mentioned capital adequacy again through public funds and you mentioned an increase in value added through some calls. I think this conflict is our vision and your visions. My view is that a responsible business environment should be created with a more appropriate tax policy, reducing bureaucratic barriers, with easier investment, cheaper labour, not with new and new taxes. So I really can't agree with you about this and I'm interested in: What systemic measures, it is said at a horizontal level, leave the calls for all companies to be based on the Ministry of the Economy in order to move from these problems to solutions? For you are there to be solutions for all companies, not just for Emma's toolbox. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Now it's time to complete the answer. It is available for 3 minutes, so Mr Minister and Madam Minister can share the time.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Your comments from the SDS are very happy. Everything we say is like we're talking in the dark. I said three very systemic measures. And the last measure is that systemic measure, when we try to focus all the support environment on raising added value in the Slovenian economy, this is said to be a deep restructuring of the Slovenian economy, where the added value will grow. This means that knowledge that will be supported and motivated faster into the final product – into the product or service, that all research and development will also be focused on some final product or that less of these scientific research will depend on somewhere in the air. We want to market knowledge, research and development results with products because Slovenia markets products and services. We need to update this product and service with knowledge. All the taxes imposed are just some balance to maintain the social state. It's certainly not good, let's say for support. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u101	It's only a minute and a half. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u102	The economy is therefore preparing a series of measures, how to make tax reliefs in the workplace, to work in the future and to raise added value so that businesses have more opportunities to employ new people. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u103	Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u104	Havela. Mr Vizjak, as you can ask me again only on the subject of active employment policy, I think there is something to say. But maybe the numbers you were talking about at the beginning. It's true that we have 8,000 more unemployed. And we're not pretending, but I'm still a doctor from this area, so that I'm fooling around with numbers, you're going to get me very, very hard. However, it is important to say everything, to say that the total inflow among the unemployed was 88,000 251 during the same period from 1 to 10 months last year. And that's why it's higher. But what we're saying all the time is a total outflow, which is the fact that last year there was an outflow in the same months, from 1 to 10, 85 thousand 541 people, and this year 87 thousand 591. This is also where active employment policy measures contribute, where this government achieves significantly better results. These are the facts. 56% of the more unemployed are included in these measures, about 35 000, 12 000 and more than last year. That's the facts. And when we say that a self-employment measure does not accept that without a relationship After two years it is more than 50% still self-employed – therefore it cannot possibly be without influence. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u105	Procedural proposal. Here you go, mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I propose a debate and a decision on this, according to the reply of both ministers. Look, Minister, this is the data from the Employment Service. I believe they're holding. They talk about the rise in unemployment in October 2013 in various age groups up to 24 years, 25 to 29 years, 30 to 39 years. And it is clear that in October 2012 there were significantly fewer unemployed in all age groups than there are now. You can say whatever you want, these are official numbers. Eight thousand unemployed are more, with an inflow of not more than 8,000 in this period, but significantly lower than 8,000. These are the facts. But look, I don't blame politicians for this either in the field of active employment policy or whatever. I blame this wrong economic policy, because this policy does not create new jobs, but offers selected companies some survival and some measures to keep them above water or even develop something. I think, however, and I would expect this from this discussion, which I think will be useful, that in Slovenia it is necessary to create horizontal conditions for all businesses for growth and also for survival. Therefore, the honourable Minister, when you speak of the need to take care of the conditions for raising the added value – yes, but for micro-enterprises, small enterprises, but not just one, the one chosen on the invitation to tender, but a whole bunch of companies fail on the invitation to tender. For example, this horizontal measure was that 100 % of all investment in R & D was recognised as a tax deduction, which means that this is a tax relief. This is a systemic measure that I expect even less. I expected from you that you would be looking for tax reliefs for investments in buildings, which would once again encourage the construction sector or something like that. I didn't hear those measures from you. I've only heard of some measures that will give money through calls to those dedicated to it. And I think, Your Honor, we need to talk about this. We have from year to year worse numbers on economic activity, we have growth, but negative, Mr Stepišnik, because, as you once said, we are growing, but negative. That's a problem for me. And not just for me, for all those people looking for a job today. Today, there is no profile, no machine engineers, no electrical engineers, no architects, no builders, all looking for work in all the educational structures. I think this could be disastrous for our country if we don't take this issue seriously. I therefore propose, Madam Vice-President, a public debate on this. I hope that the public debate will also give Minister Stepišnik an additional motive, that he is not a social minister who understands raising taxes as a social measure, but that he is an economic minister who proposes and chooses measures for economic activity and new jobs. New jobs can take us out of the crisis, I'm sorry, not raise taxes.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u107	Thank you very much. About your proposal, mag. Mr Andrej Vizjak, in accordance with Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, you have made a request for a debate, not a public debate, but for a debate on the reply of the Minister of Mag. Stanka Stepišnik and Minister Anje Kopač Mrak, we will decide tomorrow, 19 November 2013, in the framework of the votes. We are moving on to the next question put by Mr Jakob President to Minister of Health Tomaž Gantar and Minister of Agriculture and the Environment of Mags. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the ministers! My question to both ministers stems from frequent contact with beekeepers, with the management of the Beekeeping Union of Slovenia and their professional bodies. Beekeeping, as we know, has long been more than just honey growing and the irreplaceable role of bees in pollinating mainly fruit trees. That is why they say that when the last bee dies, life on earth will also die. In recent times, there has been an increasing number of talk about apperapia. Apitherapy is the use of bee crops for medical purposes, for example for disease prevention, treatment or disease recovery. Apeterapia in beekeeping is also growing, and I am thinking of breathing in with affluent air aerosol. The user in beekeeping, which is specially designed for this activity, stays for an hour or longer, can inhale aerosol intensively, even through a mask, receive instructions for the consumption and use of bee crops, can also perform a honey massage and so on. Similar activities are largely carried out abroad. However, the activity must be regulated in a normative manner. The Beekeeping Union of Slovenia will actively participate in this, as in all its fields, in the organisational and educational fields. That was the first part. Part two. Bee spots can also be fatally dangerous for allergic-sensitive people if there is no rapid medical attention. A suitable first aid kit in the beekeeper would help reduce the risk in the time until medical attention. I personally know a number of cases of fatality from the bee's point of view. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, How and when will you regulate the field of apache? When will you legally regulate the area of first aid at the bee’s peak and prescribe an appropriate set as mandatory equipment for each beekeeper, where such events are also the most numerous? I sincerely thank you for your answer in advance.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u109	Thank you very much. First of all, Minister Tomaž Gantar will give an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u110	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Members and Members. There's actually a lot of talk about apentherapism. So, we're talking bee treatment, it's honey, it's stem milk, it's also bee poison. I must say that most of the results in this area are more of an artificial nature, some tradition of traditional treatment, and much less of the scientific knowledge in this area. Of course, in this context, we cannot treat this treatment as a treatment in some other areas that have appropriate professional and scientific backgrounds and evidence for such treatment. The fact is, they exist and will probably be in the future. Certain rules already exist in these specific areas. Depending on how these products are treated, the individual product is intended either for food or for cosmetic products or for any other treatment. These are areas which are also regulated by individual rules in these specific areas. These rules apply equally to the use of these products than to other products used for these purposes. As far as the first aid kit is concerned, the position of the profession is quite clear. At the bee’s peak, sensitisation may occur after the first peak and thus, with subsequent contact, a marked increase in antibodies causing a certain reaction in the body. This reaction can either be local or systemic, it can be severe, it can be milder. It is acceptable to prescribe to those patients who have already had a certain reaction to have a first-aid kit containing certain medicines that help alleviate an allergic reaction, the right one contains antihistamines, corticosteroids as tablets. But what beekeepers want is first aid kits that contain adrenaline. Of course, the profession disagrees with that. Adrenaline is a medicine to be initiated and can be life-threatening with the wrong use. Therefore, it is clear from the point of view of the profession that adrenaline sets are not allowed and will not be allowed in this case. However, it advises on a substantial number of other measures for people who are sensitized to bee spots, ranging from avoiding places to getting to know all the necessary reactions and measures at any bee peak. Of course, with the worst possible reaction, and with an anaphylactic reaction, immediate emergency medical attention is required, which is the only effective one.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Of course, the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment will also respond. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u112	Thank you, Madam President. Allow me to say, the Minister and I are fully coordinated. However, I will give you perhaps two important information. The first is that, already this year, the State, through the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, is funding a public advisory service in beekeeping, including a special promotional project on the day of apperapia. As a result of these activities, we have essentially taken the initiative of the Beekeeping Association to launch a regulation on complementary activities, so that we can put additional activities within beekeeping into the regulation. The Regulation is in the process of amending and upgrading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Request to complete the response? Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u114	Thank you very much for both your answers. I thank you both. As far as this first area of apperapia is concerned, it was clear from the answers that we are working on this in Slovenia, the ministries are working, the beekeeping union of Slovenia is working enormously, that some things are still open and need to be further detailed by the relevant regulations. In particular, I expect what Minister of the Jews said in conclusion that these things will go in this direction. As far as the first aid kit's concerned. I don't understand this set, so it's an integral part of this set of adrenaline injections and so on. I am aware that each person must be dealt with separately with his specific problems in other areas of his health and sensitivity. However, after talking to experts — with doctors in the bee - health field dealing with these problems — they assure me that it is possible to achieve with some of the contents in this set to ease this time between the bee’s peak and actually first aid to the doctor, until the first aid can be implemented. After all, this time is often the one that is destined or the most critical. That's the part. And the ingredients in the beekeeping would be useful for that.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u115	Complementary response, Minister Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u116	Thank you, Vice President. That's what I said. This is a self-help kit where someone who has already had a hypersensitivity reaction may have appropriate medicines that do not endanger life in a way that adrenaline can, if not given correctly. These are the antihistamines, oral corticosteroids, which are said to be in the form of tablets that each bee stings, knowing that it is hypersensitive, immediately ingests and reduces the possibility of any major reaction. Of course, the worst is still the only possible treatment that doctors can give.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u117	Since time has not yet run out, do you still want to answer? No, no, no. Here you go, Mr. Presecnik has a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u118	Thank you very much. What the Minister of Health said the last time, I'm sure that's the problem. Now those who know they're sensitive to the bee's peak have this set on them. However, I advocate that some content set beekeepers in their bees may be able to help those who may not know that they are sensitive to bees. That's the difference. I have now abused this procedural proposal because I do not intend to propose a debate on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u119	Thank you so much for admitting you're forgiven. We are moving on to the next question. Mr Zvonko Černač will ask the Minister of Infrastructure and Space Mr Sam Omerzel a question. Here you go, Mr. Blacky.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u120	Nice greetings to all present! I refer to Mr Omerzel the issue of the implementation of investment projects after the adoption of the budget balance for the following year, i.e. for 2014, which was adopted last week. As you know, in the infrastructure area, the reduction in investment project funds was mainly for those already running, amounting to more than EUR 100 million. Of this, some €50 million is less allocated to the implementation of the compulsory public service in the area of railway infrastructure maintenance, and some projects that have already been and have somehow been in the final phase will not be able to continue. Such a case is, for example, the railway against Kočev, which is somehow two-thirds finished and will have to wait. A number of others are also important in terms of transport safety in rail transport. From 80 million to 8 million, road infrastructures are being reduced, resulting in the freezing or halting of 52 projects, followed by additional costs, all of which will continue to increase funding in this area over the long term and increase this financial framework instead of reducing it. On this point, the Committee on Infrastructure, when dealing with the budget's rebalancing, adopted a decision, we agreed that there were additional options to be found, but the government has done nothing in this direction. A while ago, Mr Omerzel announced that the second track could be made for half a price. If a similar approach were to be applied to all other infrastructure projects, and this price was reduced in half, there is more than 100 million euro here in 2014 alone and none of these projects should be closed and all investments in the maintenance of railway infrastructure could continue. For this reason, we are interested in what is the basis of Mr Omerzel's announcement that the second track will be made at half a price. The number of EUR 400 million was used as the value of this project. I want to know: What document is the basis of this value of this project, whether on a pre-investment basis or on an investment basis or on an investment programme? When was this investment programme, if this value is based on this programme, adopted? On what basis – on the basis of an idea project, on the PGD, on the PZI, in short, what was the basis for this investment programme? What was the basis for the claim that the second track could be made with half the price? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u122	Madam President, thank you for your floor. Dear Mr. Chernač, thank you for the question. I also understood the question in a slightly broader context, at least as far as the investments themselves, especially the second track, and I will try to give you a little more exact answers in this direction. It is true that as far as investment is concerned, there is a complete philosophy in the direction we have taken it in the second track, that is, every project, I have led quite a few investments in my previous life, what some investment plans have made, all the investments that we are responsible for within the Ministry, we will make in this direction a thorough review of the comprehensive investment plan to introduce the full rationalisation of investments and all possible optimizations that we can carry out in these investments. As far as the funds are concerned, for 2014 and 2015 we have projected a good billion euro investments, of which EUR 543,8 million in 2014 and as a source of funding, the bulk of these investments is from European funds. A very large part of these investments take place on railways. In addition to this financial perspective, there is a great deal of emphasis in Europe on investment in rail infrastructure in the next financial perspective, so that we can also count on the future, as far as railways are concerned, on the development and financing of these investments themselves. In terms of roads, we are talking about state roads, it is true that the investments for which we provide our own resources are reduced. What we are moving forward smoothly is investments that are driven by European funds. It is true that we are very limited on the roads, as far as resources are concerned. You know the budget very well and you know how much money we have at our disposal. But on state roads, I'd say it's easy to be good when you have a lot of money at your disposal. In a way, I'm insisting that I'm good at times when there's no money. And what I myself have done when this budget is adopted, both for 2013 in the rebalancing and for 2014 and 2015, is to find a way to finance state roads. In our ministry, we will come up with some proposals, how we see it, with a proposal for a way to finance the government if we get support from the government, of course, even the National Assembly. And I hope that at the end of the 2 million Slovenians will support us on one of these concepts and that we will find a source of funding to build state roads. If we have a resource, if we have resources, then the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space will absolutely ensure that state roads are regulated and that more resources than we now have are allocated to both maintenance and investment on state roads. As for the railway and Kočev that you mentioned. It is true that this investment was somehow limited by funds. We have provided €8 million for 2015 to continue this investment. In the meantime, we expect that not only within our ministry, but with the support of the whole government, we will provide additional credit through one of the European banks to develop this investment. The question of the second track, given that you were also a resortary minister and a problem very well known, I also know that you were trying to make this project more rational in some more rational contexts – of course I see it as an incentive that this is the right direction in which our ministry is thinking and working. We have reviewed the existing investment documentation in very detail. You know as well as I do this whole DRI thing. And as part of how the project documentation was set up, in which direction the project is going, you know very well that, according to all the plans we have, there will be a building permit at the beginning of next year. On the basis of complete technology, construction works, the scale that was actually designed by the entire realisation and organisation of technologies, with very exact figures, we hope that this investment will be carried out in this ranking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Here's a request to complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u124	Thank you for your answer, but an important part of what I asked was not answered. In that general part of investment, these ambitions that you have mentioned are to be traced from the balance sheet of the budget, even though the funds are reduced. However, I asked whether the Ministry intended to do the same as your statement that the second track could be done for half a price, or whether it intended to do the same for all other investment projects as a good master. So, does he plan to make them for half a price? And I asked, on what basis, for the first time, the value of the second track project, which was mentioned to be a billion EUR 400 million at current prices, and secondly, on what basis is the forecast that this price could be halved. Is this assessment based on the investment design, the investment idea project, on the PGD, on the PZI, at which level of the investment programme is this assessment based? I didn't get that answer. In these projects, which we have not yet seen and which are going very long, it is very easy to predict that it can be done for half a price. An example of such an approach, by the selection of those who planned the investment, is seen in Scotland, where they said it would cost 660 million to put it into all the projects, and then we know where we are today. Now here we go another way. We want to put some project that's for all of us to put it into some real programs, even if it's going to cost about a billion and half billion or two billion. Because a concrete approach, respected minister, could be shown in a concrete choice when you chose a car plate maker for 12 million 951 000 753 euro on 31 July, instead of choosing someone who offered 6 million 539 thousand euros. That's half less.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Here you go, supplement the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u126	Thank you for your word. If I were to claim that all the projects we're responsible for at the Ministry would be done for half the price, I might be overreacting a little bit. What I have said and what I want to say is that in this case it has been so on very concrete facts. What I want to say is that all the projects, all the investments that are going to take place, will be reviewed in detail, whatever we are talking about. Complete project documentation, not only financial, but also input parameters, quantities, what really depends on the project's review itself, not just the verification of mathematics. As far as the projects we will run are concerned, each project will be reviewed in detail both in the input parameters and in the calculation models and in the results, especially on the basis of what good practice is both at home and abroad. And if we succeed in all the projects to achieve this result, that we will halve the investments, then I think we have justified our trust and that we will do our part properly and honestly. I must say that, according to my information, at least I have not yet signed the decision, we have not yet chosen a specific contractor. I know the invitation to tender is outside, and I know that two contracts, including the numbers you're giving, are holding. The correctness of any offer has not yet been decided and has not yet been verified. At least on my part this decision has not yet been signed, unless someone has signed it, which is not within the Ministry, which I strongly doubt. On the second track, I repeat. The DRI was the one who did the project documentation and complete design as far as the second track is concerned. Based on this, the value of €1.4 billion has been estimated. You know that very well because you were a minister for one year and the DRI was the one who was directly responsible to you. On the basis of this documentation, on the basis of the complete project documentation that we have examined in detail, not only the calculations, but also the inputs, all that goes with it, we have come up with this ranking of investments that I am talking about.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u127	Here you go. Procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u128	I propose that we proceed on the basis of the provisions enabling us to do so, to discuss this Mr Omerzel's response. From what we've heard, it smells like cheating on the public. Now whether it's conscious or unconscious, it's a question. It's about the car plates first. The minister said he didn't sign the selection decision. The Minister's ruling is no. This one and this one, signed by 31. Seven. 2013 By this decision, he selected the car plate operator for the value of EUR 12 million 951 000 753.70 and excluded the supplier from the price of EUR 6 million 539 thousand 60.50. In short, here was a concrete opportunity to choose someone for half price – concrete on the table. You don't have to wait 2022 with the second track. And that didn't happen. While the procedure is under review, because of the fact that a supplier has significantly higher production – a European and a global player on this market – has been eliminated – than a selected bidder. And despite having all these references, the bidder was chosen for a once-in-a-lifetime higher price, or he was not selected for half-priced if I use the Minister's words. About the second track and that half price. In one of the statements, the Minister said that the documents [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u129	Mr Černač, let me just remind you that the Minister cannot answer, but you are also somewhat dissuasive about this procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u130	I explain why there is a need to discuss this. That the value of a billion 400 was estimated on the basis of documents made in the past. The currently valid document for the second track is a pre-investment design that has not been done by the DRI, but another company in 2010 and the value of this pre-investment design, which was made on an idea project, not on the PGD, amounts to 899 million 300 thousand at current prices, taking into account the VAT change there, some 920 million. It is true, however, that during all that period, when the PGD projects were made, the remaining investment documentation was also produced and you were probably based on an assessment of the draft investment programme, which no one has yet confirmed, where the value at current prices is billions and 411 million euros. But you didn't say, by the way, where, on what basis, this assessment can be reduced to half. I think that this debate should be held because it is a serious issue that we will face if not earlier in five years when we face a similar scenario, as we are now looking at at the Sixth in Scotland. I think it is irresponsible that things need to be dealt with more responsibly, and I must say that we support the Minister, that the values are re-checked and that the right number is reached. We do not support speculation that such a project can be done for half the price on the basis of the same PGD documentation that was estimated at a billion 400.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Your procedural proposal to discuss Mr Omerzel's response will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 19 November 2013, in the framework of the votes. We turn to the next question put by Mrs Iva Dimic to Minister of Health Tomaž Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u132	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Mr. Secretary! The work of all health institutions is based on information systems. Unfortunately, I note that these information systems are not uniform across the country, which leads to difficulties in transferring health documentation from one institution to another. Not only are the systems different between hospitals, but there are several different information systems at the University Clinical Centre of Ljubljana, making it necessary for the staff to carry the results and charts on the floor itself. This is not only an unproductive waste of employee time, but also an unnecessary delay in the delivery of tests, which could have fatal consequences for patients. It is even cost-effective to establish and maintain several different systems. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary: How much funding is allocated annually for the maintenance and upgrading of information systems at the primary, secondary and tertiary levels? When will systems be synchronized or unified, for this means the end of the irrational waste of tax money and the saving of valuable time? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u133	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u134	Thank you for asking. I couldn't agree more. Over the past decade, information systems have been established by individual hospitals, as well as by individual clinics within the same institution – if we are talking about the UKC in Ljubljana, in fact quite independent, unrelated, so this has had many times the consequences that you mentioned: difficult connectivity, paper transfer still and so on. This was also the reason why we started the EHealth project with the establishment of an interoperable spine. It was taken over in February this year. In fact, we are already making all these information systems compatible or compatible with each other. And even today, based on this interoperable spine, basic data can be obtained from different operators. It's over 80,000 documents right now. This is also the starting point for further EHealth projects. You know that an electronic prescription has already been announced. The invitation to tender shall contain an electronic order. All this is possible only on the basis of this interoperable spine and connectivity. We monitor data on the use of this information technology. I count various costs, from purchasing hardware, software to maintenance, including people who are employed in this area in individual hospitals. These costs range about 1.5% per year when we talk about hospitals. In 2011, this was actually just over €19 million, and in healthcare homes these values revolve between €3 million and €4 million per year. That is, a lot of money, and a relatively small percentage when we look at it in the whole budget. In fact, it is an area that, as you can see, is extremely important and where something was missing and some false steps were allowed. The new legislation provides for a single system and integration into a single system.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u135	Request for complete response.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u136	Thanks for the answer. It's a short-term supplement. I'm also interested in the timeline: In what time do you expect this to unify? And the rest, you answered me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u137	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u138	So it's unified that it's interconnected already, and it's by establishing an interoperable spine. It would be a very expensive solution if we went to a new set up of systems and a single one also at lower levels or at a particular hospital or health centre. We have taken care of connectivity, and from here on out we will have to work with a single system for individual software solutions, as I said, in the field of prescriptions, registries and so on. Otherwise, they are already interconnected and can already share data with each other.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u139	Thank you very much. The next question will be posed by the Magi. Majda Potrat to Minister of Culture Dr. Uroš Grilc and Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr. Jerne Pikal. Here you go, mag. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u140	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, Dr Jernej Pikalo, the question is addressed to you as well as to the Minister of Culture. The question I am asking has been linked for years with both ministries, as well as decisions at the city level and decisions at the state level and matters, as well as the university. I'll just say the question at the beginning and justify it. What measures do the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport intend to provide adequate conditions for the functioning of university institutions that educate in cultural professions? This part of the question relates only to the management of spatial problems, but these are not the only problems that education for artistic professions faces. This is, on the one hand, the price of these programmes, which is significantly higher compared to the price of other educational programmes, the other, which is the opening up of the possibility of new programmes, which is decreasing in terms of financial situation, but new needs and new opportunities would require the opening of new programmes, and the third, which also concerns this issue, is in fact the resolution of spatial distress. For several years now, we have been dealing with this issue in Parliament, and since the National Council for Culture must address the initiatives of the National Council for Culture after the law on public interest in culture, the conclusions of the Committee date back to 2009. Since then, something has not changed much. Plans to solve the spatial distress of the three academyes are great, and the realization is still at about the same level as it was then. Perhaps only with the new premises has something arranged for the Academy of Music, and partly for AGRFT. As we are forecast to meet again by the Committee on Culture and I believe that the committee covering higher education on this subject, given that we have adopted a national programme for culture and that we will also adopt a national law on higher education, it seems to me that it is the right time to answer this question – at least an indication of the direction in which both ministries are thinking. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary Jerney Pikalo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Member, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, welcome! Thank you so much that we can be here with you today and answer these questions. As far as your specific question is concerned, I will be able to answer a little bit more from the point of view of the Ministry of Culture, and perhaps a little less from the point of view of the Ministry of Culture, but also from that point of view I will try to say a few things. I would have divided this whole issue into two parts. The first part is the question of solving the current situation, a situation that we all know lasts for a long time and is mainly related to spatial distress and I think we have already found in one of the previous questions of the Member States that lasts for more than 50 years and is unsustainable as such. As far as solving this problem is concerned, we can say that we are carrying out activities, everything that the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport is concerned with, by providing additional funding from the University of Ljubljana for rental space for art academyes. This autumn, together with the University of Ljubljana, we also joined the active search for alternative temporary solutions, alternative locations under the available fund. On the one hand, the available university fund and, on the other hand, the available state-owned fund. That's another thing. And the third thing that is a little more systemic is that we are preparing a draft bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the Guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia, and this would be one of the ways in which the Republic of Slovenia could provide financial resources for, say, this final regulation of the spatial problem of the art academy. So one is what we are temporarily saving, and I think we are working very well here with the University of Ljubljana, and the other is that a lasting solution must also be found. As for a permanent solution, we have agreed with the Ministry of Culture – and this is also stated in the resolution on the national programme for culture between 2014 and 2017, in order to seek, within the framework of the resources available for this purpose, spaces that will improve the material, organisational and other conditions of education for artistic professions at art institutes. Our commitment is that in 2014 the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, the Ministry of Culture and the University of Ljubljana will jointly define the real scope and at the same time make this investment viable. I can say this commitment, not only in 2014, but we are already doing it today. We had one broader and several smaller meetings on this subject. With regard to this area and the art academy, I must say that there are quite a few activities at both ministries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Request for complete response. Here you go, mag. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u144	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. This part of the response, which concerns the powers of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, has fulfilled my expectations. However, perhaps I would ask you to respond to the part that I finally pointed out that the National Council for Culture also expects that perhaps some things relating to the financing of programmes would be different. Is it possible, within the framework of the proposal for a law on higher education, to find any such extension that would open up opportunities, or to create or call for new programmes, even though it is within the competence of universities and this is almost an interference with university autonomy, but is the position of the Ministry very important to regulate the situation of academics within the university? However, given the national importance of these programmes, I believe that consensus has been reached. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Thank you very much for this supplementary question. I can only say, as you have already done, I think you have repeatedly found that the allocation of funds within each individual university, the opening and calling of new programmes in principle, and also the real thing of the university. Indeed, and here I agree with you that there is probably nothing wrong with universities being aware of the national importance of these artistic programmes and of education for these artistic professions. Of course, it is not at the Ministry or Ministry to suggest to the university, but with some principled support we can probably give the university a signal of how important these professions are and what they mean for our identity and for the development of culture in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Grill, Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, will ask the next question. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u148	Thank you so much for saying that. Oh, that's a good-bye again. My question is a slight continuation of the initial answer from the area of chimney activity. It is known that the area regulated by the Environmental Protection Act is also a smoker activity that is not regulated in the most meaningful way. That this area is disorderly, it also contributes greatly to the poor work of officials at the Ministry, because the information I have and received by both civil initiative and various individuals shows a number of irregularities. The consequences of such irregularities were also obtained in court. It is known that before 2010, the Administrative Court’s legal judgment had become a number of irregularities in the award of concessions. And the basis of this judgment was then also the decision of the District Court in Ljubljana, which imposed for failure to act and, in particular, for ignoring officials to pay a large amount of compensation to an undertaking, EUR 800 per day, or a maximum amount of EUR 500 000. In view of the fact that the findings of the anti-corruption commission have also been that there are also signs of corruption and numerous irregularities on the part of some officials, Mr Minister, I ask: Do you know how much such country irregularities have already required payment to individuals or performers? And most of all, I want to know: Did you, or your predecessor, for those who were clearly found responsible and guilty of such irregularities introduce any investigations and sanctions? It is unacceptable for the State to behave so passively towards such irregularities and, last but not least, to unduly spend taxpayers' money to pay such damages. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u149	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u150	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor! In fact, you have pointed to one of the skeletons, which unfortunately there are many in the area of chimneys within government services. The specific skeleton, although I will not talk about names, is linked to the chimney area of Škofljica, where the concession contract was awarded and then signed in 2008. It came from an unelected service provider to a lawsuit which was also favourably resolved on the ninth month of 2008. From here on out, procedures are going very slowly. That's why the plaintiff is 12. 4. 2010 brought an action for the silence of the Authority. And it's only 21. 6. 2012 was then defined, adopted, the report went to the Government, found that no one met the conditions. On this basis, there was a lawsuit against a country that ended by losing the state, which was still in your government's time, but it doesn't matter because we're observing the system that was then recovered from the country during the execution. 1. 2013 111 000 EUR 749. According to my current data available, this is the only execution, but there are many skeletons. As a result of all these skeletons, it is also not known that any criminal or other liability would then be brought against anyone. However, when I inherited the Ministry, I found that we had so many setbacks, so many unresolved matters, that one of the first acts of department dissolution, or a complete change of department with new people. Old people who have not done their functions in the way they should have received different works, including standardized works. New ones have come, but, what's important, they've done quite a bit in time. It is therefore important that the Ministry's actions and activities, which were specified in the response report to the audit of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia, have also reviewed and assessed the activities and assessed them as satisfactory. This report is new and is from 4 November 2013. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Request to complete the response? Here you go, Mr. Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Part of that was answered, especially in the part where I asked you for amounts. Otherwise, I have here my own proof or document or decision on this execution, which comes from 2011, this was the time of the government in which you participated. This resort was led by Mr Žarnic. And by that time he had also found that skeletons in closets were numerous, that they fell out. He also claimed that he would try to settle the matter. Sadly, he failed, even saying that he had failed because he had always crashed into various lobbies and officials who had many excuses not to do their job. But even though you now find that the irregularities, that you dissolved the department, are certainly also possible here by the name and surname of the people who have done bad, who are responsible for this compensation paid by the State, and we also expect sanctions. It would probably be unacceptable, but I am afraid that this is just as you have moved these people to some other official position, perhaps even more paid or perhaps even less responsible, and no proceedings have been initiated against them. I do not expect you personally to carry out any sanctions here, but as responsible for this area we should somehow start some procedures to determine guilt and, of course, sanctions. Whoever is to blame should also be responsible for the material task of teaching others, not least that people will see that they can also be here for those who do not do well, certain sanctions. I would therefore like to ask you for an answer: Have you done anything or are you planning on doing something for these responsibilities?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary, a supplement to your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u154	Just like I said. We've done a lot of activity this time. For the first time that has been known to me since the independent state of Slovenia, the Court of Auditors, which has said again or often said that nothing is happening and only worse, has said that this time the situation is different. Not because we claim, but because the Court of Auditors has said that some things have changed, I believe that we both believe in this report of the Court of Auditors. It is true that this particular event is from the time of another government, but it does not mean anything. It is true that all the answers to why this has happened are standard when officials do not do anything to make time delays due to a demanding, extensive work in the award of concessions, limited staffing opportunities and so on. So far, in this particular case, as far as I am aware, a requirement for accountability has not been made, although we also use such methods at the Ministry in some other cases. It has not been suggested to me either, but I understand that you have made a proposal as a member of the National Assembly to oppose these specific officials or because the state has been harmed by 111 000 to review the possibility for the Ministry to bring proceedings against specific people. Of course, I accept this initiative.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u155	Thank you very much. We turn to the next question put by Mr Ljubo Žnidar to the Minister of the Interior, Dr Gregor Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u156	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary! Mr Minister, I believe that you understand my little concern for local self-government, since the citizens have chosen me four times to run the congregation, so I am quite homely here. For this reason, I am particularly concerned about the future of local self-government, in view of the current measures that have been taking place under the leadership of the current government over the past six months. Above all, I would like to talk today about a series of financial measures that directly and directly target the municipalities and in this way very much interfere with local action, local autonomy, in general, I would say cutting down local self-government. These financial measures are quite something, such as the amendment of the Law on the Financing of Communities, which in the future reduces the financial level of smaller municipalities, slightly strengthens larger municipalities, but when we look at the average, this difference is essential. This is said to strengthen only a few municipalities, and it reduces financial resources for these smaller congregations. Investments are declining. If I look at it every year, it's 70 million euros. The municipalities are the engine of the small economy in the dispersed part of the whole of Slovenia and, with a reduction also for investment funds, the municipalities will also be here with part of this local jurisdiction. Then there's the property tax, which is very burdensome for the local community. Local communities own a lot of property, and the burdens will be great. So she's worried about a lot and I'm asking you a question: Do you not think that, with the draft budget for the coming period and the announced changes in the financing of municipalities, with which you strongly interfere with the possibility of the autonomy of municipalities also arising from the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, you are jeopardising the performance of the mandatory tasks of certain municipalities as well as the consistent regional development of the Republic of Slovenia?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u157	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u158	Thank you very much for the question and for the opportunity to explain a little bit about the plans in the field of local self-government. First of all, as far as the Law on the Financing of Municipalities is concerned. There were some versions, some draft possible changes to the law, but at this point in time changes to the law, which would in any way change the formula of community funding, we will not propose, but we will take some more time to do so, discuss with the community association, to reach a system that will be acceptable for all or for as many municipalities as possible. However, I must say that the current system of funding for the municipalities is a number of things wrong. In particular, the analysis from the final accounts of the budgets of the municipalities has shown that in reality some municipalities have been financed too much in terms of the tasks they perform and some have been underfunded. One of the key points where this injustice is shown is the sharing of money according to the number of pre-school and school-bound children. The burdens brought by schools and primary schools for municipalities are extremely high. And those congregations that have many preschool and school-bound children are disabled, not getting enough money. This is not entirely correlated with the number of inhabitants, but is in considerable correlation. Thus, usually those municipalities with a smaller population receive slightly more than those with a higher population. We will try to find a formula for which associations will also agree that it is fair. But we don't plan other changes for once. As regards the property tax, a solution was reached through several rounds of coordination with representatives of the municipalities in the end that the municipalities would receive as much as they received with compensation for the use of building land for a further three years. So we have three years to analyse the effects of this tax, including what the municipalities themselves will have to pay this tax, and then, based on the analysis, change the funding system of municipalities. So we're going to have to change it, not on the nose, and there's no need to worry about it now to surprise us with any change in the funding formula for municipalities. As regards the system of regional incentives and regional programmes, this remains unchanged. It is true, however, that state co-financing of investments has been reduced, much less than you said, but it has declined, as has the state-level financing of investments. Times are just like this: the budget needed to be balanced or reached at a 3% deficit. We had to do this, so now we have finally received one plus from the European Commission after a long time and finally found ourselves again among those countries that are doing well. We haven't heard that in a long time, but now, and that's just the sacrifice we had to accept. Therefore, a slight reduction in funding for investments at both national and local level. Nobody likes it, for sure, but the only solution for us to increase it again is economic growth. It is therefore necessary to do everything in this direction in order to have economic growth again, in order to make the economy more competitive so that more money can come into the budget, then we can also finance more public money investments.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u159	Here's a request to complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u160	Dear Minister! I'd like to put in the next thought. At the meeting of the All-Slovenian Self-Government, which was in Celje a good fourteen days ago, where all participants in the Slovenian local environment, both the Association of Slovene municipalities, the Community of Slovene municipalities and with a large majority of all mayors, where they discussed the current problem of local self-government, there were no representatives of the Government. I'd say it's extremely difficult to understand. However, I cannot understand that there were no representatives of your ministry. There were, I would say, very sharp criticisms where the mayors expressed that they did not actually see the source and did not see a minister to talk to, to be coordinated with, and which minister would advocate their problems and with whom they would jointly address the problem of local self-government, municipalities, etc. The question is whether it is a tendency for local governments and municipalities to weaken to the point that municipalities become only bureaucrat offices without money and jurisdiction. All these measures lead in this direction, so that the congregations do not have to be abolished, but the congregations themselves will write their own roles to put an end to them as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u161	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u162	With these views on the threat of local self-government and municipalities, there is a strong overstatement, since nothing has been done so far, except for the already mentioned reduction in investment assets, which also applies to the country, absolutely nothing, which would be negative or unfavourable for the municipalities. The financial compensation, as set out in the budget for the following year, is exactly as agreed with the Community association. So it didn't go down by a single euro. With regard to dialogue, I agree that in recent times, in all the matters we have had on the table, we have prepared a budget, trustees, dozens of laws that we have, that there may have been little time for this dialogue, but we are correcting this. I have already invited representatives of all three representative associations of congregations to meet in a short time and we will discuss all these matters. I will tell them the same thing as I told you; therefore there is no cause for concern. The Law on Community Financing will not change beyond the will of the associations. The Real Estate Tax Act is designed to maintain the same level of funding for municipalities for three years. Of course, it was thinking about the possibility of gathering congregations. I think that the whole circus and all that dust that was rising is largely due to the fact that I spoke a little more outspokenly about the need to unite the congregations. As far as this is concerned, I haven't changed my mind and I won't. I think there's going to be a need to unite the congregations. That we have too many congregations for one small Slovenia to date with a significantly smaller number of congregations and that we could invest more money in development and investment. On the other hand, the argument is enough to put rural areas at risk. It's the opposite! If the rural municipalities were to join together, together they would be stronger against Ljubljana, against the country, they would also have much more money, better projects could be implemented, and Slovenia would be significantly less centralised and the countryside would be significantly stronger. That is why I will continue to cheer for this gathering of congregations. But I recently drove through a small municipality near Ljubljana and saw a pre-sealed circle, with a large fountain, illuminated, lights like Las Vegas I said to myself, is this really what we have to invest money in Slovenia? Isn't there much more important and necessary?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u163	Do you have a procedural proposal? Mr. Gniedar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u164	I would also like to see a discussion in the National Assembly, in accordance with Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure, because I believe that the strategy and direction of local self-government is inconclusive. I think that it is necessary to listen more to the congregations, to listen to associations that see serious problems. It's creating some sort of centralism. I believe that so-called control of Slovenia is being created with several urban municipalities. The funding tax also burdens only certain congregations, those who were now more economical or more friendly; those who led and had local autonomy to secure immigration, created good conditions for their citizens. This autonomy will now be hampered or totally reduced to local communities by this strategy and these measures. For this reason, I propose that the debate be held in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Your proposal for a debate will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 19 November 2013, in the framework of the votes. We are moving on to the next question posed by the Magi. Katarina Hočevar to the Minister for Education, Science and Sport, Dr. Jerne Pical.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u166	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present! On Friday, the Brussels government received a signal on the positive nature of the measures to address the budget deficit. This, of course, gives us some optimism, but the real work is still ahead. Success will only be ensured if all ministers are prepared for changes and reforms following the example of Dr. Virant. Mr Pikalo, in 2009, the president of your party, Dr Lukšič, in his role as Minister of Education and Sport, said: "Successful economic reform always begins in education." That's why I want to know: What reform of education awaits us under your ministry? In what areas are you preparing changes within your department, of course with the aim and purpose of following certain savings in the field of education? I would like to point out, above all, that the changes will not go in the direction of first going to the abolition of branch schools, but I ask you: Why do we need a national knowledge check? In accordance with Article 64 of the Basic School Act, a national knowledge verification project is being carried out both in the 6th and 9th classes, and even teachers point out that the verification in Article 6 does not have or the added value of this verification. That's why I'm asking you: Do you think about ending this area, ending it, and saving some of it? In short, I want to ask you: Are you going to start a reform of education with small steps to abolish within your department certain institutes that do not bring no additional value, and within the department take care of the savings that are needed in all segments? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u168	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Thank you very much, Madam Members, for this matter. As far as small-step policy is concerned, I think that in education we are taking not only small steps, but big steps in saving. As far as these little steps are concerned, I wouldn't agree with you. But speaking of small steps, we do them all over again and every day. So it's about only one doing it and the other not doing it, very wrong understanding. As far as NPZ or national knowledge checks are concerned. National knowledge checks, as you said, have been in place for several years and have their results. They cost about – I have data here – in 2011 €405,000, in 2012 €462 thousand and in 2013 something similar. If you want, this is in the entire budget that we have at our disposal, which unfortunately is steadily decreasing – and here I agree with my colleague Luksic, who said that successful economic reform begins with a good education. This means seven hundred per cent in the budget of the entire Ministry of Education. This represents 0.07% of the total budget. But the benefits that we have from this, in our view, are much stronger than this cost. Each country or we listed them precisely 27 out of 31 countries has, according to EURYDICE, such or similar national knowledge checks. This is not just about knowing about each student separately where he is, it is about getting systemic information about how the individual class is doing, how the individual school is doing, first within the national system and within the classroom. It's about, if you want, feedback that's crucial to what's called a feedback loop. One part of the story of national knowledge checks is just analytics, without this analysis we cannot build a system. If we were to upgrade it without this information, it's just one of a bunch of data, then we'd build it on our minds. This system is too complicated and too sensitive to think about. But with these national knowledge checks, we want more than that, it's not just about getting analytical data. The Republic Examination Centre, which processes this data, makes it available to every principal, every teacher, even more detailed if you want the depth data on how a class or a school works, how it progresses. You can also talk about the advancement of an individual student. And that's what's most important. The most important thing is that you now have some kind of checkup at the 6th and then in the 9th grade. You can see where the boat spits for each person, for the class, for the school or for the school environment and more. In addition to this analysis, we want to encourage students to make critical assessments of their own achievements, we want to provide in some way the same educational opportunities, we are trying to simplify the criteria of the teacher's work, which is what is important in order to have this national verification, so that teachers, both teachers and students, can receive this feedback. Thank you very much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Request for complete response.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u170	Thank you, Minister, for that part of the answer. I'm gonna be perfectly honest with you. I was reminded of the national knowledge check by craftsmen at one of the round tables, if you know how to raise contributions, you are burdening the economy, and in some areas, for example, there is a national knowledge check because students in the 6th grade feel that nothing happens because of this verification, they do not take this check seriously and answer these questions with pictures, if you understand me, rather than with words. So thank you for explaining that. But now that I have heard your answer, I have understood that your view is that the area of education, education, that it is all right, that this is what our economy needs and that you do not intend to make any major changes or movements in this area. In short, you may not have had time, but this is my additional or complementary question: What is ahead of us in the field of education until the end of our term of office? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u171	There is no further question under the Rules of Procedure, but you are, mag. I would like to say that, probably thinking about supplementing the answer, I would like to give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u172	Thank you very much. First part first. That nothing happens. I have to say, in a way, it bothers me, too, but you know, teachers and those who are really professional about this matter, and they know why this is so, and that is the so-called IT evaluation. We have had several meetings, including a long professional debate, and I must say that I have been convinced why this type of evaluation, but I always say that this is also the motivation of the teacher. If the teacher manages to motivate his students, then the students will also cooperate with all seriousness in these national knowledge checks without drawing pictures like you said, but will answer with all seriousness and also wish to achieve a high result. And this is also a matter of motivation for teachers, I agree. As far as the other one's concerned. No, unfortunately you didn't understand. There are some things, and I think you can also see after some, let's say to this current, media reactions, that we have and we want to change some things. Far from being satisfied. You know, when you're looking at and when you're abroad and within the framework of the OECD, which you already know is a club of very selected countries, you're invited into a tighter circle where you're in the circle of the system of the top 20 in the world, then you might think about yourself or the school system, that it's really good and that it doesn't need to be complemented. No! No! I always said it could be better. Definitely certain types of changes, on the one hand in accordance with the National Higher Education Programme, concerning primary school according to the White Paper of what we have not yet realized, will be an anniversary of nine years and it is time to make a serious evaluation and on the basis of a serious evaluation then we also propose changes. As far as high school is concerned. [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] We are doing this all the time, and – and you will also get this on the parliamentary bench in the coming months – even within the framework of secondary schools, we will propose a number of changes. [[...]] So it is not that we do not want to, we absolutely want to upgrade the system and train it to be even better, even though it is already among the top 20 in the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u173	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Dr Vinko Gorenak, who first asked the question of both ministers, both the Minister of Justice, Dr Senko Plitchanič, and the Minister of the Interior, Dr Gregor Virant, and now he has informed us that he would ask only Minister Gregor Virant a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u174	No, I need to correct you if you've already gone into this interpretation. That was Dr. Rooster's wish. And I agreed. That's right.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u175	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u176	Okay. My question is as follows: What measures is the Government’s intention, or will the Government – possibly changes in the laws – in the case of these so-called independent state institutions, with a view to ensuring the coherent functioning of these institutions? Of course, I was primarily thinking about the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption and the Information Commissioner. I had trouble addressing this question. Why? For a fundamental reason, there are some independent state authorities that are in line with the 'God and Blue Sky', as they call it, and no one else in this country. It would probably be appropriate for the President of the Government, but then we have somehow united ourselves that the Minister of the Interior and Public Administration is the one who might be the one. But why am I asking that question? It is simply a question of the independence of the state authorities and who they are responsible for their actions. To whom is Mr Klemenčič responsible, who is Mrs Pirčev's responsibility? No one, would have been my answer. I have worked very hard and I have ordered one of the research tasks I have ahead of me, covering 23 European countries. Minister, look what's going on with these institutions abroad. Some countries have consultative bodies for policy-making in the field of persecution, corruption. These are Andorra, Armenia, Cyprus, Georgia, Germany, Slovakia. Most serious countries do not have these institutions, but the Ministry of Justice or the Ministry of Justice does the job. These include Belgium, Estonia, Iceland, Italy, Norway, Romania, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and Austria. Denmark has nothing. The least corrupt country in the world is Sweden. There's nothing in this area, no such body. There are some relatively independent institutions, such as the KPK in Slovenia. Such countries are Albania, Croatia, Latvia, Macedonia, Serbia and Slovenia; and no one else. However, if I add only the powers of the Commission to prevent corruption, and such a country is no longer in the world, there is no longer. Look, our Anti-Corruption Commission says, "There is a risk of corruption." What's that? That's not corruption. "There is a possibility of systemic corruption." That's not corruption. "There is a corruption risk." Then he says, "acting has signs of corruption." I would like to point out, for the first time, that the position of the Commission to prevent corruption as well as of the Information Commissioner is inadequate and I ask: Are there any changes?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u177	Mr. Secretary Gregor Virant, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u178	Thank you. In fact, we have quite a few so-called independent supervisory authorities. By knowing that three of them already have a constitution. Thus, the Constitutional Court, the Court of Auditors and the Ombudsman are three cases of such institutions, such institutions, which have supervisory functions and are independent, are not part of any branch of authority, neither legislative nor executive nor judicial, and the Constitution provides for them. In addition, we have some additional information, such as the Information Commissioner, the Anti-Corruption Commission, the State Audit Commission is also among them. All these institutions have very precise legal regulations, so they are perfectly regulated by law, and I would not agree with you that they are not accountable to anyone and that "there is only a blue sky above them". Indeed, all these institutions also have judicial control over themselves. Thus it is possible, for example, to file an administrative dispute against the decision of the information officer, including against acts of the Commission to prevent corruption, we have seen in concrete cases, it has been possible to file an administrative dispute and the Administrative Court of this administrative dispute has not rejected it, but has examined it and decided on it on a case-by-case basis. The supervision of these institutions shall be ensured. Personally, I think such institutions are necessary and important. I think that both of them mentioned, this is the KPK and the Information Officer or the Commissioner, as you wish, are doing their job well. However, there is certainly room for manoeuvre to improve legislation. I think it would be good, especially in the law on integrity and the prevention of corruption, to correct and supplement some things. On both sides: on the one hand, when it comes to placing a commission in a control system – even when it comes to controlling the functioning of the commission itself – things should be made more clear. On the other hand, I think that, at some points, this Commission could be given or given even stronger powers and stronger powers. And I'm gonna say something about both of you. On the one hand, this commission has the power to control the assets of officials, all of us sitting or standing here, Members, Ministers, Mayors. It thus exercised priority over the property situation of the presidents of parliamentary parties, it is said that it could be said that it started at the summit itself, and found serious violations in two long-term proceedings. I think that this control of the assets of the officials is necessary and important. For each of us must know, even more than any citizen, another citizen, every moment to explain to him where his property came from, where his house came from, where his cars came from, how he, I don't know, money he spent on some luxury travels and so on. We need to know how to explain that. People expect transparency from us and this transparency must be. I think that the law should be tightened here in this direction so that the Commission can also look at the accounts and property of family members, because practice shows that by transferring to family members and mixing property with family members it can create a very high degree of non-transparentness, some kind of mafia business in fact. I also think it would be right for the Commission to have a chance to look at accounts abroad, in Switzerland, Cyprus and so on. To see if the officials and their family members have accounts abroad — this moment cannot. On the other hand, I agree with you that judicial control over the functioning of the Commission should be clarified. Therefore, it is clear that what can be said from this point of law is not clear, but practice has shown that this can, therefore, be clearly stated in the law, that an administrative dispute is possible in such cases and that the Administrative Court is so procedural, procedural as well as substantively verifying the legality of the Commission's decision. I therefore agree with you to a certain extent that there is room for improvement here.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u179	Here's a request to complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u180	Thank you so much for that part. I can agree with that because look at the holes we've got. You go to Lipnica, you open an account, and no one controls you. You put it on your son's tab – no one controls it. I can agree with that. But, see, the problem that I also have with the report that you mentioned; I claim and I am sure that the KPK acts purely arbitrary, absolutely arbitrary. No one will convince me that Mr Klemenčič is not returning the service to those who have put him there, but we know that this is primarily the President of the Republic. Look, it took him a year to run three numbers for the NPU. A year for three numbers! And he was the supervisor of that story. Check on the assets of the party presidents. I agree, but watch out, look, Mr Kos now says that this is the draft report that he wrote, this report in the francs has collapsed. He took him down to the frags! However, Mr Kos is somehow in charge of Mr Klemenčič from the point of view of international institutions. Actually, he's vice president of GRECO – or he was, I think he is. Then, let's say, look, arbitration -- where are the weights from the party presidents? Is it 10 grand or is it 8 euros or what is a weight? In some of the presidents, he checked more than 10,000 assets, but in some he checked specifically because we had nothing to hide, while in Janša he checked 8 Euros with a heavy phone bill in 2005. Did he check that with all the presidents? And I'm not saying there's anything wrong with you or any of the other presidents, but he didn't even check it out. Then, say, "it's a satisfactory explanation." Yeah, he's not a teacher! What's "satisfactory explanation"? What category is that? Then, look at his political -- because I'm going to avoid, Minister, these personal things that we had with the signatures, and those airline ones, I'm not going to talk about it because it would be ugly. But look! It took him three weeks to study the missing signatures. One day before the interpolation, he published a story. Look, no one's gonna convince me that this isn't sort of arbitrary behavior. And that's why I'm criticizing the work of this commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u181	Here you go. Complementary response, Dr. Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u182	Yes, nemo judex and causa sua, they say, no one is a good judge in their affairs. I wouldn't dare, say, comment on some of the KPK's opinions if it were about me or one of my political circles. I think that the decisions of the institutions must be respected and that it is not up to us here in Parliament to discuss whether the Commission is biased or arbitrary and so on. For example, I trust the Commission to prevent corruption, and I trust Mr Klemenčič and believe in his integrity, and I have no problems with that. But it doesn't matter whether you trust him personally or I trust him. It is important to institutionalise the supervision of its decisions or the decisions of the Commission. For example, in this particular case, two presidents of the parliamentary parties who have found irregularities have been found. In both cases, they were brought in an administrative dispute and in both cases, the court examined the action, so it did not dismiss it as inappropriate, but it did address it and rejected it, which means that it did not give the defendants the right. If I'm not mistaken, both judgments of the Administrative Court are pending before the Supreme Court. Thus, we will eventually have a judge of the highest court who will say whether the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption is right in these two cases or not. And that's how I think we have to act like politicians. Institutions that are independent to carry out their business have their supervisors over them, even those supervisors should carry out their business, the judicial branch of the authorities should carry out their business, and we must respect and comply with these decisions. That's my belief. Once again, I think that the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption needs to be complemented. So, on the one hand, to define more clearly the control of the Commission's decisions, on the other hand, to give it some enhanced powers in relation to family members and the control of property abroad. It would also be for some unnecessary bureaucratic burdens in this law to be limited, as corruption must be hunted where there are risks, but not in some minor cases, for example, that each of the thousands of municipal councilors in Slovenia must now report their assets accurately. That's probably a little excessive. So the changes here would certainly be useful and necessary. However, supervision over the assets of the officials needs to be strengthened. In this country we are going to fight against the grey economy, the tax industry is in control of the property situation [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Taxes unexplained assets, and here we just have to make sure that citizens don't have the feeling that fish stinks on their heads. So, first order should be made at the top.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u183	Procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u184	I propose a debate, but not so much about the Minister's response as such, this is a formal basis, otherwise there are substantive reasons for it. I agree with you when you say I can't argue with you. I agree with you, you know, when you say there's a judicial branch of power on this, but look, I have to deal with cases, because otherwise it won't work. The employment of Tank's son, Janša's daughter, was a corrupt act. Okay, well, this could be judged by a court of law, but it's not. But look, the employment of Masleš's son in court. The employment of the son of Masleš in the public office in Ljubljana cannot be judged by the court because Klemenčič did so. "I don't see it," he said. Employment, such as the daughter of the former President of the State, etc. etc. They have not dealt with this and because they have not considered it, the court will not be able to judge it. Then, let's say, I'm sorry, Mr Stepišnik is here, but look: the mayor was convicted of corruption because he bought one cigarette lighter, as it were, for a birthday at the first florist, who was accidentally a municipal councilman. And that's first-class corruption! But you should have bought it in Celje so it wouldn't be corruption. Can you imagine? It's corruption. Now that the ministry of Mr Stepišnik has allocated EUR 348 000 to his company, in two days Mr Klemenčič reported and said that there was no corruption because the minister had been expelled. Yes, the mayor also got expelled, because the mayor wasn't running for arms, but his secretary, you know. And now I see Mr Stepišnik applying again for the new 300 – or what will it be like? That is why I say – but the problem is not only Mr Klemenčič! Look what happened the day after the state elections with Mrs Musareva. She screamed about those trainers and about the criminal charge, and she also filed it, and the police reacted and was there within 24 hours; but after a year there was nothing in court. I therefore argue that the KPK or, above all, the KPK should be placed under thorough control, and I believe that these matters should also be discussed at the level of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 19 November, in the framework of the votes. The following question will be raised by Mr Tomaž Lisec, Minister of the Interior, Dr Gregor Virant. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u186	Vice President, thank you for your word. Two ministers, Mr. Virant in particular. As announced, my questions will go in the direction of the implementation of the criminal and disciplinary responsibility of officials who are employed either in the state administration or in the administration of the local community. Honourable ministers, citizens and citizens often feel that because of the failure of the official system – generally in the country, at different levels and at different bodies – they are second-rate citizens. Many times it is a similar feeling, such as in the field of justice, but it is not a topic. People have a feeling when things stand, they don't get answers, the answers are bad, they're misleading, they're too late. In short, citizens feel that they are working politics beyond the legally prescribed policy. Since I myself have been employed in the National Assembly for almost a decade now, I also have the feeling that the state or public administration sometimes sleeps, sometimes faints, sometimes works for their own interests, when officials write or participate in the preparation of laws that are almost written on their skin, or we cannot get rid of the feeling that officials act in the interest of someone, if not themselves, because there are also cases where someone is an official in the morning and in the afternoon. The Minister, that there will be no mistake, I believe, just as I hope that you, too, that the vast majority of officials of the working age, are decent, fair and consistent, but I feel that these are the most well-protected, because unfortunately the system in our country is designed so that the bad officials are more protected than the good ones, especially here I speak in this political sense. Minister, you've been connected to the office in one way or another with respect to your functions since 2000, especially the well-known reforms of the salary system of public servants and even in the last days, when people feel that you are also a lawyer of officials. So let me ask you a few questions. How many disciplinary proceedings against officials of the state administration or administration of the local community have been introduced in the last five years? If these procedures are still in progress, I would ask for specific information. Then I wonder: How many government officials or local community administrations have been legally found guilty in these proceedings, and what measures have they been given? And maybe: In what laws in the field of official action have you been involved in your political functions in the last decade? I believe you were: Which way did your solutions go? So much for the intro. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Dr. Gregor Virant, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u188	This is such a question that it would take one, up to three hours to answer, but I will have to stick to these five minutes. First of all, I would correct you that I am not a lawyer of state officials, but a minister, also responsible for public administration and the public sector, and that I have, in the first place, public service users, these are citizens and businesses who benefit from public administration services and the general public sector. Of course, on the other hand, I always have colleagues in front of me; that is to say, employees in public administration and the wider public sector. If you mean with a public servant's lawyer that I have agreed with them on a way to repay the debt the state has towards them, I must make it very clear that it is a debt determined by the court, and this is the highest court in this country. We used all possible legal means to get to the Supreme Headquarters. The state lost there because of a mistake one Prime Minister made in 2010, and it was by chance that this skeleton fell on my desk and I have to clean it up. There's no other. And it's in a legally correct way. But that's another thing. Yes, I can say that since 2000, I have been involved in practically all the key changes in public administration, at least with the ones most ascribed to me, this is in the reform of the pay system. The author is Dr Bohinc, the current Minister of the Interior, in close cooperation with the late Prime Minister Drnovsk, who is now deceased. But this is earlier Drnovšek-Bohinč's reform as Virant, but I have been involved in many other things. I've been involved in countless simplifications of administrative procedures. I was an ideal father and project manager All in one place, which is one of the best systems for registering businesses in Europe as well as on a global scale, I also received the United Nations Prize; I have been in a number of other simplifications of procedures. In 2005, we together started to reduce the number of employees in the state administration, systematically. The result today is that in the state administration, in its civilian work, the number of employees is 18% lower than in 2005. First of all, Janša’s government, after which Pahoreva continued, continues to do so today by the government of Alenka Bratušek. So, an intense reduction in the number of employees in the state administration. The State Administration is the only part of the public sector that has strictly adhered to the fact that it has reduced the number of employees on an unaltered scale. In many ways, I would agree with your findings. It is true that there are too many employees in public administration today who think bureaucraticly; that there is probably a bureaucratic way of thinking one of the biggest, if not the biggest, problems of the Slovenian state administration; that too many people sitting there behind the windows are aware that they are there to solve the problems of citizens and businesses. This mentality will have to be reversed, as many clicks in the head as possible will have to be made to make sure that the employees in the administration are aware that they have to help solve the economic problems, because then the economy will be better off, we will be able to collect more taxes because the traffic will be higher, and there will be no problems in the public sector as we now have to reduce them for several years in a row. So you're right: bureaucratic thinking is too present, still too present in administration! Specific information on your questions as far as could be collected in this short time period. We collect data on disciplinary procedures by organs, we will have them by 9 a.m. on Monday, and we will also provide them to you in writing. As of today, however, we have been able to obtain information from the Commission on complaints that operates with the Government, which can be appealed to by those who have been disciplined. For example, these procedures have been slightly less than 100 since 2008. However, I must stress in particular that the termination of the employment relationship is not expressed in the disciplinary procedure, but is cancelled under the Labour Relations Act, as in the private sector. Therefore, the same rules apply in the public administration as in the private sector – the U.S.R. However, this year it was from 20 March to 1. Ten. 2013, i.e. during the term of office of this Government, 32 dismissals by the employer on grounds of guilt or incompetence. In the past years, in 2005 50 [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] – and after I'm interrupted, I'll continue because you'll probably ask the question – in 2006, 41 dismissed, in 2007 50 dismissed [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Do you have a wish to complete your response? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u190	Thank you, Minister, especially for saying yourself that you will also respond in writing. You probably agree too, so I am separating what a state administration is, what a public administration is, and what a public sector is. I also find it very disturbing when people ask questions, say officials or the public sector, and then push them from potatoes to beans. To have more time, perhaps one or two more questions. Now we're on the back data. I'm curious, considering you're the current minister: What are the plans for cases where the actions or omissions of officials sometimes cause matters to fall? That people will not feel that they are second-rate or that officials are leading both them and politics. Here I am talking mainly about what happens many times in the National Assembly, when we adopt some kind of good law and then there are the preparation of sub-laws, where things get blurred and officials can swim again in mud. In addition, there is an area of public tendering where officials sometimes take too much responsibility through these committees. In short, I hope, Minister, that your actions will go in this direction, not to the citizens, but to us politicians, officials will not drive the thirst across the water. But I'm curious, you've been talking about these officials on the road, and I'm not just talking about your area. Over the past 10 years, I would like to point out at least two areas that are very important. [[...]] One is, say, environmental issues, especially the area of chimneys, where irregularities have been proven in ministries. As well as in the area of spatial legislation, in the field of social legislation, which is the legislation where people are most sensitive. In short, Minister, I hope that you will be active in the protection of citizens, as well as us politicians, as opposed to officials who exploit their official duties for their own interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Dr. Gregor Virant, supplemental response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u192	Of course, I will be active in the protection of citizens and businesses, politicians only as much as we are citizens, without any additional rights or privileges. Employees in public administration in Slovenia know my position. They know that I am always and will always advocate that public administration is a kind and effective service for citizens and for businesses to simplify things as much as possible; therefore, to make things as simple and user-friendly as possible, not complicate and bureaucratic as necessary to resolve matters in time, in short, that the administration is as it should be. Of course, these things can't all be changed overnight, they're slowly changing for the better. Let me remind you, 10 years ago or 15 years ago the procedure for issuing a building permit on the administrative unit lasted on average seven, nine months, today is the average time since the submission of a complete application for a building permit on the administrative unit until its issuance of 30 days. But, of course, I'm there a little longer, and there are other things that get complicated to understand that I'm not going to idealize things, but it's essentially different already. And there are some tight throats. For example, taking a second step in tax matters takes too long. Out of hand. The decision at the second stage in social affairs at the Ministry of Labour takes too long, but we have already taken action, already taken action in the Government and are slowly cleaning up. So, we figure out where the bottleneck is and we'll go out there and clean it up. The area of Arsa, that is, the area of the environment. Here we are together or, above all, a fellow Minister of the Jews took matters seriously: Arso has a new leadership and this new leadership is thinking mainly in this direction how to simplify things as much as possible. They're going to reduce the number of procedures, debirocratize some things. Let me give you just one example, today you must get water consent to build in the flood zone. That's all O.K., understandable, logical. But today you have to get water consent even if then you pull a mustache on that house in the flood zone, say, on that house of yours. This is absurd, and this is stupidity and such nonsense is very much in the environmental field and will now go into simplification. I would also say that, in our ministry, we have an administrative inspectorate and every citizen or entrepreneur or any party in a procedure that considers the administration unfriendly to him, that does not help him solve problems, that he is late to work outside the deadlines, etc., can turn to this inspectorate, who will act accordingly.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Would you like a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u194	Yes, because, in fact, the Minister has already instructed me to suggest that the debate be held, because the Minister himself said that he could discuss the subject for several hours. That is why I think it would be useful to hold a debate on this at the meeting of the National Assembly. There, too, everyone would probably agree that it is not possible to change matters overnight. However, I think it is right that, after 20 years, our independent state, including politics – not by protecting our work, but by protecting our citizens, and that our officials do not run politics like we do as politicians and we as citizens, and that we will deal with the question of what kind of service we want – especially this state's official system. Do we want some American, Japanese system? I must say, through education, I have met these two the most, and I must say that they are very close to me, they are very effective, very little bureaucratic, or we want an old one, let me be forgiven, some Balkan system of officialism. In short, I propose that we hold a debate at the next meeting of the National Assembly, on what kind of official office or state office in Slovenia we want or what our citizens deserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u195	Thank you very much. We will decide on your procedural proposal tomorrow, November 19th, in the framework of the votes. The next question will be posed by the Magi. Jana Jenko, Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Dr. Anji Kopač Dark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u196	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. My question, however, concerns social affairs, recently reflected in the media the case of an aggressive child or child with aggressive behaviour, which drew attention to the fact that this area is in no way regulated. The number of children with aggressive behaviour in Slovenia is increasing greatly, with 85 such cases being dealt with in 2010 – that is, children and adolescents between 10 and 19 years of age – and 124 in 2012. These children are placed in psychiatric hospitals in closed wards, where they do not belong, among adults with various other mental and other disorders. This is a very complex and complex issue, which is not addressed in sufficient terms by educational and health programme providers, for which they are not even adequately equipped, not from the point of view of space and personnel, nor from the point of view of the doctrine of work. As these children are not sufficiently taken care of in the system, they are lost in the grey foxes of the system, which cover both education, health, social, and consequently the police and justice. I want to know: Is something already going on in this area? When will a crisis centre for such youths and children be established? When do you plan to ensure that there is sufficient training in educational institutions so that these children will not be left to the system as it is now and landed in psychiatric institutions, which even those responsible in these institutions say is not a suitable place for them? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Dr. Anya Digger Dark.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u198	Thank you, Mrs. Jana Jenko, for that question. As you mentioned in the question, it is a very complex issue which concerns a number of departments, certainly also the social sector, but also the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport and also the Ministry of Health. If we look at the Government's adoption of a renewed programme for children and youth in October 2013 – the original programme was adopted in 2006 and covered the period from 2006 to 2016, but we have now updated it from 2013 to 2016 – there are two important actions or objectives in this programme that relate to this area and fall within the competence of the Ministry of Health; in the field of health, as a country, we have set ourselves the goal of ensuring a healthy integrated development and strengthening mental health. We have committed ourselves to developing early recognition and treatment programmes for children and adolescents with mental health problems and programmes to identify and treat vulnerable and vulnerable children due to diseases and other situations of parents and complex inequalities, including violence and neglect by parents. We must be aware that an aggressive child does not become just like that, but it is always due to certain or health-related moments and also to what is happening in the family. The second objective is to help children with negative behaviour, where we have set ourselves the goal of reducing the impact of various risk factors on this negative behaviour of children, in which one of the strategies is also an early and timely perception of more serious forms of distress, which often affect this negative behaviour, in a way that will enable teachers and teachers and educators to be involved in training, by means of which we will be able to identify the problems of the child in a timely manner. PUM is a programme where the objectives are set out and it is essential for its implementation to adopt an action plan. This is foreseen by April of the following year. At our Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, we are constantly looking for the possibility of crisis accommodation because we are aware that these grey foxes we have in our systems are not appropriate. Above all, unlike you may have raised the question, there is a lack of accommodation in psychiatric institutions. There is also a shortage of personnel, pedopsychiatrics, which could help these children, in the whole of Slovenia. However, within the framework of our network of crisis centres covered by the Ministry, we are currently working on the specialisation of the crisis centre in Celje to target aggressive young people and minors with a restraining measure. So perhaps the saddest specificity in this area is that we are talking about young people who are forbidden to approach their parents and others. So it's really a vulnerable population that needs to be given full attention. However, I also received an answer from the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, which was that they fully monitored this problem of working with children with emotional and behavioural problems, especially in relation to mental diseases and disorders. According to a study carried out in 2011, 40 % of all children in educational institutions, youth homes and housing communities have been hospitalised at least once in a psychiatric hospital, most of whom have also been hospitalised at some point, indicating the population's connection and not actually talking about mental health anymore, but about the problem in this area. In Slovenia, we do not have an appropriate comprehensive and multidisciplinary form of assistance for this population, so the Mountain Education Institute with the support of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport has organised a special group of children and has begun to develop a concept where, in addition to teaching and social treatment of children and adolescents with emotional and behavioural disabilities and reduced abilities, these children are given special treatment in addition to those for all children. Therefore, the Ministry has provided the necessary funds for this purpose. Things are happening, we're trying, but it's actually a cross-resort related issue. I believe we will be more successful in this area, but we certainly need to take a holistic approach to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Are you satisfied with the answer? We continue with the next question raised by the Magi. Mr Marko Pogačnik to the Minister of the Interior, Dr Gregor Virant, and to the Minister of Finance, Dr. Uros Chufer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u200	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister! Minister of the Interior Dr. Virant, you have been elected as the key negotiator of the government in the negotiations with the unions regarding the Supreme Court's judgment and the non-payment of salary imbalances. We have been able to understand from the media that this agreement is complete. Could you tell us more about this matter? According to the media, wages or disproportionates are to be paid in two tranches, the last payment is to be made for 2015 and you have also promised that public servants will be subject to legal late interest for that period. The legal default interest is almost 9% at a given time. At a meeting of the Committee, the Minister of Finance said that Slovenia could be indebted at a substantially lower rate. I want to know: Why did you offer the unions such a high interest rate? As a result, I think direct damage is also being done to the budget and to all taxpayers. I'm interested and I'm asking you as a negotiator: Why did you offer such an interest rate? Was there no other solution? And the question for the Minister of Finance: How does he view this arrangement? Is this agreement already confirmed in the government or will the government have to confirm it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Who's going to answer first? Dr. Gregor Virant, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u202	Thank you for asking. This so-called third quarter is also one of the skeletons in the closet. In fact, we have received the Supreme Court's judgment, which has made it very clear that the State or all employers in the public sector must pay the wage difference for the period October 2010 to June 2012, with all the late payments. Thus, I must say that there were no strong negotiations here, nor could there be, because we simply have a court decision on the table, a Supreme Court judgment and we must respect it. When I went through these discussions, I prefer to say as negotiations, I set a principle — I will not repeat the nonsense that my predecessors have done. We have too many stories in this country, when because of disregard for some basic legal principles, things fell before the courts and we were getting boomerangs in our heads and in the end it cost us twice as much as it would have cost us. And we have deleted, and we have the regression, if you remember, and we have the 143rd article of the ZUJF — just the kind of thing that, if you think about it any further, would be smarter and you wouldn't have to pay us in the end. So in this case, I decided, or I thought it was only right to settle the matter in a perfectly safe manner; however, a legally secure way is to pay with all the late payments, everything else could be very controversial. Let me remind you why we have this debt. We have it because of one mistake, and this needs to be made clear because of the legally incorrect annex to the collective agreement, this was done by the Borut Pahor government in 2010 with Minister Irmo Pavlinič Krebs, who signed this annex with one part of the unions. The error was double: for the first time that almost half of the public sector was eliminated at the time and only one part was signed, so the other part of the unions was dissatisfied and it was signed too late. Finally, the Court said that this was done with retroactive effect, which was not allowed. We have decided to arrange the payment with the law to be controlled, transparent and equal for all public officials who belong to it. It is true that two meals are foreseen, but if you take a good look at the law, it says "precisely". Because, of course, it would be wise, and I am myself to pay as soon as possible. Of course, we must put this in the framework of the financial plan, we must not go beyond the financial plans in force, we must not go through the deficit in the budget, which has just been praised by the European Commission, and that is why we have been doing this flexibility for two years. How much is that gonna cost? The total cost of this payment – the net effect should be seen. It is true that the total amount is about 200 million, but from this the income will be charged, which will go back to the state budget, and to the municipal budget, and contributions for pension and health insurance will be charged. Thus, the net total is about 120 million, in two instalments it is twice 60, of which about one half is eliminated on the state budget, it is said, about two times after 30 million will cost the state budget. And it's a "one-off," it says, not a raise in wages, but a one-time reckoning back, in line with the Supreme Court's judgment. It's not a raise. The Minister of Finance will tell us what are the real chances of paying this sooner, because in fact, if we pay the first part in February and then in January 2015, the next part will be late interest, let's say that somewhere between 8% and 9%, of the remaining 60 million will actually be 5 million late interest in the whole public sector, of which about 2 million and a half in the budget. There is not a large amount in the entire budget, if it can be avoided, of course we will avoid it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? The minister may be for the last 20 seconds, and then yes, because then we still have time. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u204	Perhaps I would just add, most things have already been said by my colleague that it is actually going in these two tranches - the last deadline is foreseen, which means that it can also be shortened and paid earlier. We'll get to the point when we have the exact calculations. [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Okay, then I'll keep going. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u205	A complement to the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u206	The answer to what I asked was very little in this whole answer. Don't get me wrong. There's no obvious to your government that you're responsible for this, far from it. The case fell out of the closet and also, I have a personal opinion, to follow the Supreme Court ruling. As you mentioned, I think that there have been too many mistakes in the past and that today we are paying dearly to taxpayers in particular. Still, there's one thing I don't think is clear here: Why did you agree to such a period of two years after such a high interest rate? In fact, in the budget not for 2015 or 2014 these amounts are not included, we all know that. Why didn't you decide to pay them off right away and just find one solution that would probably be cheaper for Slovenia? I think this solution would be cheaper and it's probably a place here. We quietly owed ourselves a few days ago for a billion and a half. There is no budget for these funds, but there we will pay, I don't know, legal late interest for the period until January 2015. Now we know that these 170 million are not directly included in the budget, as the Secretary of State has also said, that there is an amount of between 80 million and 100 million. Question for both: Why didn't you find another solution? That's where we owe, I'd say, under the table, don't tell me who's the one who bought the bonds, but here you're offering 9% interest rates by January 2015. This is where I think the key thing is to get the damage done here. Why didn't you find a solution? Since the Minister of Finance also said that the state could make a lower interest rate, and these funds are not included in the budget for 2015 and for 2014!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Dr. Urosh Chufer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u208	If I keep doing this before then I'm going to tie it to this part of the answer. These are, in fact, two dates which are the final dates that say by which time to pay it off at the latest. Of course, if there's a chance, we can do it sooner. In fact, there are two elements to what the three-quarters option is: one element is to have a sufficient amount of liquidity from which it is paid — this is definitely what we have — and the other element that is urgently needed is to make enough savings in the budget so that we can pay it without a balance. Here was an estimate that doing twice 30 is significantly easier than doing once after 60. That's why, as I understand it, there's been a scattering between two years. Of course, if these savings can be achieved faster and created in one year, then even by the amount of money and the amount of interest to be paid for these late interest, it will be significantly more favourable if we do so in one year. The faster we do it, the better.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Dr. Virant, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u210	In doing so, we have the law that will be before you this week, in fact, to ensure that employees have the guarantee when they will be paid at the latest, and they no longer have any need and motive to file lawsuits and executions. Otherwise, we would be overwhelmed by these individual lawsuits and executions. For example, thousands of executions have already been submitted in the District Court in Ljubljana in the last month; only in Ljubljana. And every day, week, month, when we put down the solution to this problem, it would be even more, and any execution would mean costs and so on. Otherwise, of course, the point of your question is the right one. As the Minister of Finance said, if possible and if there is money, we will pay it as soon as possible to avoid these late interest rates. Otherwise, to put it simply, we'll have the money borrowed for a while. But he will be borrowed from our people, from our associates, from public servants, not from anyone. As soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Do you have a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u212	Mr President, I would like to take this business opportunity to hold a debate on this subject. However, there are probably more reasons, as the interest in Slovenia will already reach almost one billion. We have a problematic debt by high interest rates and we have here such a huge offer of high interest to certain people. I think all those who have invested in executions today are sorry. Because if we waited until 2015, we'd get the capital back, plus the late interest they don't get anywhere. If they take the deposit to the bank today, we all know what the interest rate is there, here they'll get a 5% interest rate plus the law that guaranteed it. There's no better thing to do, but all to the detriment of the state and taxpayers! For that sum, the Minister of Finance, it would probably be justified to make a balance, you said so yourself. We could, but we should do a rebalancing. We have warned you that these funds are not included in the budget 2014, 2015, and the coalition has supported it. That means you can do it. Dear Minister Virant, I do not believe that this will cost taxpayers only 5 million; that this will be significantly more with these legitimate late payments, which amount to almost 9%. Even if it's $5 million. We could spend $5 million on education, health care or something, not that we're offering now. I'm sure that this is where the solution would come in, and that this decision you've made is bad, and the marriage you're about to make will be bad. Let one solution be found for these funds to be paid in advance. Yesterday we should pay for this, or when you have a decision, you should find one solution. And for a billion and a half, we owe ourselves, and I don't know what we're doing, we haven't got any explanation on this yet. This was not foreseen either, as reflected in the budget 2014, 2015; however, this 80 million or 100 million cannot be found here to save 5 million, but it is worrying. I propose that a broader debate be made on this subject and we see what we are on. He appealed, in particular to the Minister of Finance, that this matter be rectified as soon as possible. I think this arrangement, respected Dr. Virant, on your part was bad.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Your procedural proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 19 November, in the framework of the votes. We are moving on to the next question raised by the Magi. Stefan Tessel. It will be stopped by the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment of Magi. Mr. Tomaž Gantar, Mr. Dejan Židan and the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u214	Good-bye to all of you. Madam Vice-President of the National Assembly, Honourable Minister, Ministers, Members and Members of Parliament! I have a question about the management of hazardous asbestos wastes that are harmful to health. The use of asbestos by the European Union began to be banned somehow after 1980, while Slovenia did not do so until 1996. By then, 670 thousand tonnes of asbestos had been imported into Slovenia, of which 90% had been processed in Anhove. Asbestos exposure is associated with the development of certain diseases such as asbestososis, this is lung fibrosis, and some cancers such as malignant mesothelioma, lung cancer, throat and ovarian cancer, and probably gastrointestinal tract cancer. Since about 500 000 tonnes of asbestos cement was used in Slovenia during the 60 years of the previous century with 35 years of life, 65 000 tonnes of pipes, mainly for water pipes, with a lifetime of 45 years and 200 000 brake linings, mainly for railways for wagons, it is understandable that this mass now represents waste. This is dangerous to health. These wastes, which are still on the roofs, are treated differently and are dealt with differently by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment at its 1st meeting on 17th. 1. 2013 has adopted six conclusions on this issue with the management of hazardous asbestos waste, and I therefore ask both ministers: To what extent have measures or decisions already been taken? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u215	Thank you very much. He'll be the first to respond to the mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u216	Thank you, Madam President. I also thank the Member for the question. We note that asbestos waste management is currently regulated by a number of rules governing the collection, transport and disposal of asbestos waste and regulating specific ways of handling asbestos waste. We estimate that we now have an arrangement for the management of asbestos waste, but we are aware of some deficiencies in the management of asbestos waste, in particular as regards the different and relatively high prices for the disposal of asbestos waste in landfills. However, improvements in the asbestos waste management system will be included in the operational waste management programme, which will identify, inter alia, measures to improve the management, control and financing of asbestos waste and waste that represent the so-called old burdens. However, the preparation of the operational waste management programme and its related regulations is contained in the 2014 ministerial plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Also Minister Tomaž Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u218	Thank you. With regard to waste management or asbestos, the fifth and sixth conclusions apply. The fifth decision speaks mainly of public awareness, and in this area, the Institute for Health Protection and the Department of Health have prepared certain conferences, education related to the risk of these wastes, handling, handling these wastes, and this has been carried out throughout most regions throughout Slovenia. However, the sixth decision itself refers to the amendment of the Waste Management Guidelines. These are in preparation by the Institute for Health Protection, which we have asked for, but are not yet completed. I think they'll be quick.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u220	Thank you very much for your answer. In this regard, the Clinical Institute for Labour, Transport and Sports, together with the Institute for Health and Regional Health Institutions, has already launched a public awareness campaign on the management of hazardous asbestos waste, with some major discoveries already being made by the group. In some places, municipalities have arranged landfills, co-financed these landfills, and, of course, where poor areas are, some of the users who cover the roofs are taking these wastes, saying, it's burned in some caves or somewhere on the ground. It even happened in Prekmurje that the matter was sold to Hungary, where probably even more poor people were still using it for cover. Therefore, the Clinical Institute for Labour, Transport and Sports also submitted a health promotion tender but was rejected at the invitation. But this is just as you mentioned, Minister – the fifth conclusion. The Committee considers that knowledge of asbestos-containing materials, safeguards and safe working methods in handling these materials is lacking among the people of Slovenia. It therefore proposes that the Government and local communities start by raising public awareness of the risk of asbestos use and handling, particularly asbestos waste. Thus, the promotion and awareness of the population is never enough, so much will have to be done in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Complementary response. Who from the ministers? No, no, no. If you are satisfied with the answer, then we can proceed with the next question. Mr Zvonko Lah, Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, will stop him. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u222	Thank you very much, Madam President. Hello, Minister! My parliamentary question concerns the issue of the Ložišča with a special purpose Compas Peskovci. The parliamentary group visited this part of Slovenia and the inhabitants told us that they had a major problem. It is the most northeastern part of Slovenia, which is Goričko, which is a rather undeveloped part of Slovenia, where about half of the area of these municipalities is covered by forest and half is agricultural land. With fewer jobs, people are also living with agriculture and additional activities on the farm. But they have a big problem because there is a special purpose in the hunting area of Compas Peskovci, where people have more and more problems, especially damage after the game. With the establishment of this special-purpose catch, it is increasingly harmful and is more attractive from year to year. The stock of high-parkling game is increasing, annual damage is getting worse, and residents are being denied access to hunter status, they say. This is why they have set up a civil initiative to end the fishing effort with a special purpose and require that, in addition to the cancellation, the hunting ground be allocated to the management of the Krka Goričko hunting family, which operates in the area. Residents collected a thousand 357 signatures with this address, as I read it, and sent it to you, Minister, 26. 3. 2013, desiring to do something in this area. I am also of the opinion that because 96 % of the land is privately owned, not in the state, it would be right for this particular hunting area to be discontinued and transferred to the management of local hunters, but for them to be responsible for the recovery of the damage. Evidently, however, the stock of this wild is too large and causes too much damage.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u224	Dear President, honourable Member! Slovenian fishing is regulated by the fact that hunting rights are a single right which is not bound to ownership rights on land, and therefore, in accordance with the Act on Wildlife and Hunting, all fishing and fishing for specific purposes shall be formed irrespective of the ownership of agricultural land and forests and the administrative and administrative division of the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. Also, all special hunting gears have been set up to carry out specific conservation and guidance tasks for the development of the wild population and its living environment. It should be noted that the entire area of LPN Compass is also important in terms of science and nature. The entire area coincides with natural protected areas such as ecologically important areas: EPO, Natura 2000 – SPA and Natura 2000 SCI, Landscape Park Goričko, which gives this fishing particular nature conservation weight. According to the Environmental Protection Act, wild game is state property. This is also followed by the provisions of the Law on Forests and the Law on Agricultural Lands that the owner of the forest or legal or natural person who owns, rents or other users of the agricultural land must be allowed to hunt on his land. In the light of all those rules, it is clear that there is a public benefit in the management of game, as has also been found by the Constitutional Court in its assessment of the constitutionality of the provisions of the Wildlife and Hunting Act, where it has found that the benefits of the exercise of hunting rights in such a way as to ensure the protection of natural goods outweigh the gravity of interference with the rights of landowners. Of course, it's just a principle answer. The Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment is aware of the problems, not only in this area, but also in the rest of Slovenia, which we currently have with the damage that various forms of savagery and beasts cause. We've got a few open dilemmas we're trying to solve. In Slovenia, in general, we deal with the larger population in Slovenia from year to year, especially wild pigs and then other species, but especially wild pigs, because hunting families no longer receive such or other forms. The interesting thing is that this type of problem is not only the problem of Slovenia. For example, only within Berlin are they currently dealing with the damage caused by more than 6,000 wild pigs. In the region of Gorička, where this hunting family or this area is located, we have additional problems that, although we have a single hunting plan for Slovenia or for this area, there is a common game that survives part of the day on one side of the border and part of the day on the other side of the border. It often happens that even at a time when we have a completely free catch for the regulation of numbers, our game hunters simply cannot track to the neighbouring side. That was also the topic of the Minister's talks. Sandor Fazekas, the competent Minister for Fisheries in Hungary, and me, where we agreed to start preparing a common hunting plan for this area. At the same time, I must say that the Ministry, when observing individual areas in Slovenia, is particularly watching how to pay the compensation caused by this savage. Special breeding grounds have as their main task the payment of compensations. Although I am aware that there are frequent complaints of two types; first, in the party's view, the compensation is often not the same as it considers it necessary to pay, on the other hand, that the compensation is not paid immediately but is at some time a relative debt. The system is working at this point in time so that we will have to look for improvements. However, once again, as far as the number of wildlings in our forests is concerned, this is not only a problem of Gorička, it is now a problem almost the whole of Slovenia, that the game is so much that it causes damage not only on agricultural surfaces, but also directly in the forest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Mr. Lah, please, complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u226	The affected point out that since the management of this hunting ground has been under the jurisdiction of the Murska Sobota Institute of Forests, there have been many difficulties, including pressures, when they have collected these signatures or set up a civil initiative to increase the assessment of damage and not to pay for the damage that is caused by deer damage more than by pigs. It's true that as far as a trophy shot is concerned, there's no payment for a wild pig. Now it's open, others can fire, but the population is still growing. However, it is said that the deer retains a strong population of game due to the trophies, as it is intended to hunt guests, so the population increases significantly. I think that former Minister Bogovic called a meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and the Environment, but when the government changed, then this meeting did not take place. I would like you, Minister, to answer them or to try to get rid of them in this direction, because hunting for a particular purpose is the rest of the previous system. These people say they wouldn't mind if this property were owned by a majority of the state, such as Kočevje, Kočevský Horn. However, because it is privately owned here that wild game breeds mainly on agricultural land, which is their property, this should be abolished.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u227	Thank you very much, Mr. Lach. Mr. Minister, would you like a supplement?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u228	It is very important to say that, from the moment I have been petitioned, there have been major activities during this year to look for a problem that have been coordinated at the level of leadership of the Directorate for Forestry and Fisheries of the competent ministry. There have also been several operational meetings both on the ground and in Ljubljana, I would also like to say the following. In hunting, I think all those who know this area better know that we have cyclical behavior. We have years when there's more quotas, more populations, and then years when there's less. When we look at the history of events both on this hunting ground and beyond, we observe the same. We are also looking for solutions, but our wish – so I thank you for your initiative, Mr Member – is that the new solution will be better than the current situation. From our point of view, it is also the question of who manages us how to manage the damage less, but if it is too bad that the one who manages it has the money to pay it back. [[...]] For I would not like to see that in these times when the state of new burdens simply cannot, then there would be management of someone, cost and compensation to the country. The state actually doesn't have this reserve right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u229	Thank you very much. You want a procedural proposal? Here you go, Mr. Lach.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u230	I want this answer to be discussed in the National Assembly – to weigh, not just because of this fishing area, there are probably more such cases in Slovenia, because these fisheries are, in particular, the rest of a system from the past. Already, forest owners are limited to the use of all the goods that the forest gives, such as the harvesting of forest fruits and so on, especially in the field of hunting, we do not have as much sequencing as in some Western countries. It is likely that consideration should also be given to amending the Law on Hunting and other definitions of this matter. I therefore propose that a debate be held, which is likely to be for the benefit of all. Nor does it matter to these farmers who is the operator, it is important that, as they say, the stock is reduced, thereby damage, and that those damages are reimbursed. Even though people don't care. If something sows, if a wildling destroys it and receives some compensation, it is not the same as if he cleans his own crops and provides himself with some feed for his livestock. We know that all hunting families, including those who operate elsewhere, have problems with farmers, with these damages, with fences and so on. However, there is some special status here, the hunting ground is practically owned by the state, in the management of the Murska Sobota Agricultural Institute, but here this relationship is even worse. Therefore, in order to find some better solutions in this area, as well as to avoid any concern if it is passed on to local hunters, they agree on each other. Hunters say that according to the stock, it is not a problem to pay, but according to the trophies that are in here, to pay those damages, only compensation is significantly less than damage. If four of them are employed in this hunting ground, they must be provided with salaries and all costs, which is not limited. But hunters are volunteers, they have no such costs, they will probably make it easier to recover these damage to farmers, and in particular they have reduced the stock to some normal stock, such as elsewhere, and there will not be as many problems as there is now. That is why I think it would be right to discuss, if not, at least the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u231	Thank you very much for your procedural proposal, which we will decide tomorrow, 19 November, in the framework of the votes. We are moving on to the next question raised by Mr Daniel Krivec, the Minister without a Resource, responsible for Slovenians in place and around the world, Mrs Tini Komel. .
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u232	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I ask Mrs Tina Komel, Minister without a department for Relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the indigenous Slovenian National Community in neighbouring countries and between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenia around the world. On the website of the Slovenian Trieste Community, we have found information that Italian Minister of Education Chiara Carrozza proposes a decree that abolishes the country's school office in the country of Furlania-Julia landscape and fully moves it to Venice. According to the Slovenian minority in the country of Furlania-Julia, the decision for a minority would be acceptable only if it provided for the establishment of a fully independent school office for Slovenian schools based in the country of Furlania-Julia landscape according to the model applicable to minority schools in southern Tyrol or in the valley of Aoste. That's why I'm asking you: What is the meaning of the special autonomy of the country of Furlania-Julia landscape due to the presence of the Slovenian minority? How is it possible to move this office, which is responsible for internationally protected Slovenian schools located only in the country of Furlania-Julia landscape, outside this area of minority protection? What will moving the office mean for the staff, the staff who will have to work there at the office, because the job change tender has already been conducted? Is it possible that the draft decree was not known by Members and Senators from the country of Furlania-Julia and that the Italian Minister carried out the matter on her own? Or how will you explain to the minister that the cuts in minority funds are not only in line with good governance and so much more so if this contraction affects a country where minority schools are now required to talk to the Venicens? That's why I want to know: Do you have any information if, instead of this country office, there is a local office for Slovenian schools in the country of Furlania-Julia landscape? I've been asking a lot of questions. I believe that the Minister is aware of this, and she has already provided some information, but I would like a comprehensive answer to this important question.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u234	Madam President, thank you for your word. Thank you, Mr Member, for this question. We are, of course, aware of the Italian Government's proposal that austerity measures would bring together certain administrative functions in individual countries. In this context, it is also proposed that the Land School Councils of Furlania-Julia Krajina and the Land of Emilia Romana, whose future headquarters would be in Venice, be merged. At present it is only a proposal, as you mentioned, by Mrs Carrose's Ministry of Education. We stress that this is an unacceptable solution for both the Slovenian minority and the Republic of Slovenia. This is a completely illogical solution, as it would have been followed by a competent office in charge of minority schools to have a seat in a country where a minority is not present at all. In this regard, I have also had a personal discussion with Mrs Deborah Seracchiani, the Prime Minister of the country of Furlania-Julia, who strongly opposes this proposal. Of course, even in the last two, three days we have been able to see in the media, even today in the Maritime Diary, where it is clear that after a lengthy conversation with Minister Chiara Carroz, we can conclude that the school office will remain in the country of Furlania-Julia. Of course, if it comes to the proposed association, it is an unacceptable solution for us. Which we will also communicate with the Italian authorities in an appropriate manner if, of course, there is also a need to intervene in this direction. However, as far as we can see how things are going in the last days, I think that things are going in the right direction and that there will be no need to interfere, even as far as this proposal is concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Mr. Guilty, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u236	Thank you for this information and for your answers. It is clear that I myself support all these efforts, that this does not actually happen and that this office does not move to the country of Emilia Romanja, which has nothing to do with the Slovenian minority in this case. This is, I would say, a practice that also applies in the field of cross-border cooperation, where, under some pretext, Emilia Roman and Veneto are also involved in cooperation with Slovenia. I think that this is a policy that we need to pay attention to, especially the Office, so that in the future financial perspective this can also be addressed. I see that the excuse or proposal was also based on savings or the desire to save on the Italian side, so I am even more disappointed that we have failed in Parliament to maintain this line for national minorities or for the office at the same level, as this is an additional signal that neighbouring countries, in some measures, will use this as an alibi for their actions. I hope that the Minister will be able to maintain this office in the state of Furlania-Julia landscape in these interviews, and in this case he also has our full support. So thank you for the specific answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Would you like to add? No, no, no. We can proceed with the next question raised by Mr Branko Smodiš to the Minister of the Interior, Dr Gregor Virant. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u238	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. All present, good afternoon! Dear Mr. Gregor Virant! My question or initiative relates to the possibility of introducing mandatory rotation of public officials in the state administration. In practice, this would mean that public servants in the public administration would hold a specific job for a maximum of 5 years and would be reassigned to a second job after that period. I see the advantage of such an arrangement mainly in making greater use of the potential of public servants and in preventing corruption and other irregularities. In fact, the motivation and creativity of the public servant is questionable after a certain period of time in the same job. Corruption can also be disrupted over a longer period of time after individual ministries, which can then no longer be limited. I imagine that the phenomenon of corruption would be smaller if a public servant realized that in a few years' time he would be succeeded by another public official who would be able to identify any illegal conduct. The rotation makes it largely impossible to link disputes between staff and different lobbyes and representatives of certain interest groups. Such an arrangement is typical of the institutions of the European Union, and some countries are also considering the introduction of the rotation system. I want to know: Do you think the establishment of a system of rotations makes sense for the Slovenian State Administration? Thank you for your answer in advance.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u240	Thank you so much for asking. I very much agree with you that mobility in the state and also in the wider public administration is very useful and very necessary. So that people are changing jobs to move from one to the other, from one job to another, to more demanding jobs, this is extremely useful, for both sides. It is beneficial for someone who in this way builds his career, that is, for his career development, because he expands his horizon, to learn new things. On the other hand, it is always beneficial for the institution where man comes, because he brings with him some experience, some knowledge, also some different culture, and can enrich the institution, the environment in which he comes. I am such a great advocate of mobility, and I think that people in public administration, but also, as much as possible, should move from one to the other, third job, from job to job. That's all very well. The system in the Slovenian public administration makes this possible. The Law on Public Servants is, as far as this is concerned, very flexible and allows for moving from one job to another without any difficulty, especially if it is a contractual transition, even so far as the law also allows for transfer without the will of a public servant, i.e. unilaterally, if I may say so, forcible relocation. At this point, staff legislation is even more flexible than the Labour Relations Act, which does not, at least theoretically, permit such relocations, but the employer has to offer the employees a new employment contract and if it is adopted, it goes to a different job or not. The Minister of Labour would also confirm that the Public Servants Act is even more flexible at some points than the Labour Relations Act. Today I have obtained numbers on transitions from one to another job in the authorities of the state administration this year, otherwise the numbers I received, I am sure they cannot hold, they must have some methodological error because it is a few thousand, but I am sure that this number is moving somewhere at least at the level of thousands of relocations or transitions from one to another every year. However, in order to think about automatic work for every five years, i.e. after five years of working in one job, the employee had to go to another job automatically, urgently, and I think we should take one step too far here. To be too forceful, too administrative and to leave this to the dynamics of the organization. On the one hand, one senses when it is time to change the field of work, but it can also be felt by its bosses, especially if it comes to such things as if someone too—as you would say, say, an inspector operating in a certain environment, in some environment, to become too domestic, resembles local, potential violators, or a police officer or police station commander. This could be dangerous. Therefore, it would be good if as many public administrations as possible went into the so-called integrity plans. This is what KPK is doing intensively, they have developed this know-how in the area of integrity plans and those where such threats occur, in particular the supervisory authorities, the police, inspections and so on, but I would agree that integrity plans should also include this kind of overheating or, as a backup option, cross-control. It is said that an inspector from one district unit controls, exercises control in another area; where he is not so domestically. These are all good measures. In principle, I agree with your way of thinking, I think we feel the same way, but it would not be for the law to change and order every employee in public administration that after five years of work should stop working in a job and go to another.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Do you still wish to complete your response? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u242	Thank you for your answer, Mr. Secretary. I agree with you, it is true that for five years everyone should go, but maybe for five years it would be interesting for the ministries, there might be more specific. I didn't mean the whole public administration, everywhere, that the rotation would be five years old, but the ministry might be interesting. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Mr. Virant, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u244	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u245	Thank you. I must say that this question of yours has made us think and that I will certainly consult with the people of the Commission on the prevention of corruption, which is very well-known and included in the integrity plans. I'm sure your question won't go to waste.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u246	Thank you very much. Since I do not see Mr Franz Breznik in the Chamber, we will go to the next question, namely, Mr Jožef Horvat will raise the question to the Minister for Economic Development and Technology of Mags. Stan Stepichnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u247	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished ministers, respected ministers! On you, Minister Mag. Stanko Stepišnik, who is also responsible for a good postal service for all citizens and citizens in Slovenia, I am addressing the following question. First of all, we are both representatives of the people, which means that our mission is for the benefit of all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. See, Mr. Minister, I am aware of the intention of Post Slovenia to abolish the business unit Post in Murska Sobota and transfer its activities and competences to Maribor. The same applies to the abolition of the business unit in Nova Gorica and the transfer of its powers and activities to Koper. Since the process of abolishing traditional postal offices in the various municipalities of Pomurje as well as the Slovenian Mountains is under way, for example, Prosenjakovci, Bodonci, Kobilje, Mala Sunday, Sveti Andraz in Slovenian Gorica and so on, and changing into individual or contractual mail, such organizational changes in the operations of Post Slovenia are unacceptable and strongly opposed. As the Pomurje area is one of the economic and demographically degraded areas, where the possibility of employment is also significantly smaller than in the larger urban centres, this is an additional obstacle to the future of our younger generations and a situation that I cannot deal with. Surely you too, Minister, have received or are familiar with the petition of the mayors of Pomur in connection with the announced reorganisation of the postal network. However, this morning, if I may inform you, I also attended a meeting of the Council of the Pomeranian Development Region, and there was also your co-worker, who will be able to report to you that there was an extremely gallant debate on the intentions of Post Slovenia. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary: How will you, as the competent minister for postal services of all citizens and citizens, put yourself on the side of citizens and prevent further centralisation in the field of postal services as well? We have already witnessed to many centralisations. How will you avoid further degradation of already degraded regions or areas in the Republic of Slovenia if you take sides with citizens and citizens? Thank you very much for your answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u248	Thank you very much. Mag. Stanko Stepichnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u249	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Thank you very much for the question, Mr Jožef Horvat. I must disappoint you, no mail will be cancelled in Slovenia and no centralisation will be. In view of your question, where you are stating that you have been informed that the Post Office of Slovenia intends to abolish postal activities and competences in some more remote areas or regions and to transfer them to larger centres, and you ask whether the announced and unclear reorganisation of the postal network does not, in fact, constitute centralisation of postal services and consequently further degradation of already degraded regions or areas in Slovenia. The postal service of Slovenia as a company, d. o. o., is obliged to ensure that it operates positively and to provide all citizens and citizens with postal services. How she provides them is her business and her jurisdiction. Of course, mail, despite the tight economic conditions in the environment, has to respect the Law on postal services and all the regulations governing universal service — that is to say, services for every citizen and citizen with postal services. As you state, the financial and economic crisis forces us to think more intensively about how to reduce operating costs. The Slovenian Post Office also faces measures to enable its long-term stability and performance. The post office of Slovenia, d. o. o. in 2013 and 2014 does not intend to abolish any mail and plans to transform the contact point or post office from one legally authorised organisational form to another. This is said to go into contractual form or mobile mail. The conversion of permanent mail to contractual mail shall have the legal basis defined in the Postal Services Act and the General Quality Act on the provision of universal postal services. The Postal Services Act, both in the introductory paragraphs of Article 2, which defines the meaning of the terms, states that the point of contact is intended for direct work with postal service users and may be organised as a post office, contract post or special organisational form, a point of contact determined by the universal service provider, for example, an exposed window, a letter office or mobile post. The transformation from one organisational form to another is also in accordance with the provisions of Article 4 of the General Act on the quality of the operation of a universal fair service, which, like the law, defines the concept of a contact point and the criteria concerning the density of contact points or networks. In accordance with that Act, the Post Office of Slovenia, d. o. o., is therefore obliged to continue to carry out and ensure the provision of universal postal service in the prescribed quality despite the new organisational form and the change of working time. It is said that citizens and citizens will be provided as stated in the law and as it has been so far. Consent to convert permanent mail to contractual issuance by the Postal and Electronic Communications Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, which, with each consent of the Post Office of Slovenia, d.o.o., has also made mandatory notification to the users of postal services covered by this post office, and the commitment that, in the event of termination in the organisational form of contractual mail, it should establish the original status and universal service to perform regularly and continuously from permanent to contractual mail; therefore, it does not reduce competence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u250	Thank you very much. You want to complete your response, Mr. Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u251	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. In fact, I have read this answer because my respected colleague Lászlo Göncz has also asked you a written question and you have answered it roughly as I am now. Of course, I read it because it's the region I come from. As you said, you have disappointed me, Mr Minister, because universal postal services cannot be delivered in a quality manner, carried out if the mail is only open for two hours, which is now planned. So the reorganization is planned, we're united here, that's what we've actually said. However, it is afraid, look, in all the mayors of Pomur, that the quality of the service will fall significantly. See, the Slovenian Post Office recorded an extremely good business outcome in 2012. Five million net profits, as they say. This needs to be welcomed and congratulated on the management, the supervisory authorities and so on. I'm not going to talk about how the funds for sponsoring are being shared. Whether they are evenly distributed across Slovenia or not, this may be another question. Allow me, Mr. Secretary, to think logically. If this goes on, then the mail can be abolished in a congregation, which in fact means that the congregation will have to be abolished or that the congregation will not have the basic conditions for its existence. That is why I can say that there is some indirect abolition of the congregations. And let me keep thinking. The abolition or transfer of the jurisdiction of the business unit Post of Murska Sobota to Maribor means that Pomurje no longer has a business unit at the moment, which means that perhaps once we are mature enough in this country, it will not be possible to establish the province of Pomurje, which we have already discussed in the National Assembly, once again, in the mandate of 2004-2008, in the framework of the provincial legislation. And here's my concern. In fact, it is just centralisation and it is an indirect abolition of local self-government and perhaps the province. If you'll do anything [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u252	Thank you very much. Mr. Stephnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u253	Of course, there's something else I can say. You know, the main problem is legislation. Such legislation is adopted in Slovenia. Perhaps this post office suffers from unfair competition in Slovenia, perhaps where there is great density, competition is also allowed for others to distribute mail. However, the law does not prescribe that such mail which distributes mail, even in those centres where there is great density, must also have a specific district within its scope of work and this is left only to the Post Office of Slovenia. For this reason, the Post Office of Slovenia has unfair competition compared to those where only high-density mail is available. Since it has to adapt to competitive conditions, it is said to reduce its costs, it does not allow it to cover such a wide area. Perhaps we should consider equalising the rights of everyone who distributes mail in Slovenia. That would be a good step. You can think, this is allowed, but I think that you and we, all together, and the mayors must somehow strive to ensure that the quality of services for citizens or citizens and citizens does not fall, that it is not worse. We have to make every effort in this direction. Even if the Post Office makes only one window or post office, we need to make sure that the mail comes to citizens and citizens as it is now or that this service will be much better. It may also be to think in the direction of legislative change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u254	Thank you very much. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go, Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u255	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I think Mr. Secretary gave a good point. And I am using the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly here, and I propose to my colleagues and colleagues that we open this debate, which Minister Stepišnik in some way also indicated, to discuss whether it is true and how legislation needs to be amended in order to improve this universal postal service for citizens. I'm not saying it's bad today, but if you let me predict it will be worse if the reorganisations go this way as they're actually supposed to. And what I am particularly concerned about is that somehow all this reorganisation, this shortening of working time and so on, is going on — of course, clearly, completely past the National Assembly — beyond the consensus of the local community; of course, these agreements are not binding. It would be good if we could discuss this matter here. This is nothing wrong, this is no attack, God forbid, to the Minister or to the Government, but it is only for this, this is my purpose, and I therefore propose that we decide on a procedural proposal to hold a debate on how to improve universal postal services in the country. I believe that you will also support this proposal when voting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u256	Thank you very much for your proposal. It will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 19 November 2013, in the framework of the votes. We are moving on to the next question raised by Mr Andrej Chus to the Minister for Infrastructure and Space by Mr Sam Omerzel.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u257	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all government representatives present, especially Mr. Omerzel! Today I will not ask you about the motorway section of Drazenci-Gruškovje, perhaps at any of the following meetings. However, I would ask you about one very important topic, including youth. On 20 March this year, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space published the Draft National Housing Programme 2013-2022. The document was prepared on the basis of housing law, which is intended to represent a second generation of document to help the country achieve the objectives set out in the development, spatial and social programmes. The document is intended to be based on the general developmental orientations of the country and findings from analyses of the existing housing situation, while also providing conditions for improving the situation in the resolution of the housing problem of the various target groups. I think I've asked you this once before, and I'm curious: What has been the activity in recent months — because there has not been much public talk about it? How far is the preparation of the document? As a last resort to this first part of the debate, however, I would say that, of course, the state has huge amounts of housing available, which is a cost, but they are empty. If they could be filled, I think these apartments could be very useful, especially for those who are having a hard time. If I link up a little in the light of the independence of young people today, on the other hand, there is an increasing social distress among the population. I want to know: Does your ministry have any concrete plans with these empty apartments owned by the state? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u258	Thank you very much. Mr. Omerzel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u259	Madam President, thank you for your floor. Dear Mr. Chus, thank you for asking. There really wasn't much talk about this subject, but probably more because it's been so much more interesting, up-to-date in recent times, but that doesn't mean that it hasn't worked on the national housing programme. He really was 20. 3. 2013 Draft national housing programme, which was put into public debate. This public debate lasted two months. During this public debate, we received a lot of constructive comments. Of course, those who were in the right direction were also heeded. We have a shorter hearing planned in November. It's in the spirit of this last hearing this month that we have 19. 11th, so tomorrow, a visit to the Housing Fund, where we also want to hear firsthand comments from the management of the Housing Fund and, above all, open the debate on the subject you are asking. So, empty apartments and how to take this matter forward, how to get closer to young people, what kind of scheme to really propose in this country, so that these apartments can also be used effectively. Based on the timetable, we expect to go to inter-resort coordination after this treatment. However, we want and think that we will succeed in the Government with a proposal in January 2014. Given that this visit to the Housing Fund is open tomorrow, if you want a substantive debate, a debate, you are welcome to this visit to the Housing Fund.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u260	Thank you very much. Mr. Hear, you want to complete the answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u261	Thank you for the first part of the answers. I have already indicated that in this preparation of the programme it would be worth focusing also on the field of youth and the difficult self-reliance of young people in Slovenia. I have quoted many times from the Youth 2010 survey prepared by the Youth Office. This showed that by the proportion of young people living at home between 18 and 34 years of age, we are the first or second in the European Union. This statistics are more than worrying. I want to know: Do you, too, predict or suggest that this document will go into intersectoral coordination, any reliefs or additional measures that would make it easier for young people to become independent? So they're finally going from "hotel mom." We know for ourselves what the situation in the banking system is, somehow young people can't even take over because you can't get a decent loan anymore. What I'm interested in is this: Are there any measures to do so, and in particular what — if any? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u262	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u263	Thank you for an additional opportunity to explain. What is important is that we absolutely want young people to commit themselves to some way of going on this road, so that these apartments – only within the Housing Fund – we have about 8,000 apartments that we would like to have young people in some way or opt for a purchase or a form of rent. This is all actually a debate that is still open, where final decisions within the national housing programme have not yet been taken. These decisions, we expect them to be taken before they go to the government. However, tomorrow is one of the key debates and final decisions and guidelines, which will be the one that will prevail. Given that a large team of experts will be present at this meeting tomorrow, I would like to propose once again if you would like an in-depth professional debate and also on the basis of what will be heard tomorrow, what a constructive proposal to propose – you are welcome to this meeting tomorrow.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u264	Thank you very much. We continue with the next question raised by Mr Branko Kurnjek, Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities by Dr Anji Kopač Mrak and Minister of Finance, Dr Uroš Čufer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u265	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Well-known ministers and ministers and distinguished colleagues! Before I ask the question, I will essentially talk about the actual state of affairs in our country, namely, there are cases of natural persons who have gone into serious financial difficulties because of their loss of employment. The loss of personal income results in the inability to settle various obligations: payment of electricity, water, taxes, etc. Trustees to such enforcement persons may reach a closure of their personal account and the bank as a payment service provider must comply with the Enforcement and Insurance Act and the debtor's personal income shall be rerouted to creditors in accordance with the Court's decisions. In doing so, it must also respect the debtor's rights. Thus, only two thirds of the debtor's personal income can be charged, and at the same time the debtor must remain at least 70 % of the minimum net salary. It also exempts money, social assistance, children's allowance, etc. The rule in this area is quite something and must be respected in a consistent manner. However, problems may arise in this case. Banks have a lot to do with such accounts for almost nothing, and therefore they can and often choose to close such accounts unilaterally, especially if the client has not received any inflows in the account for a long time, which in many cases happens because the person does not have a job and is waiting for a decision on monetary social assistance. By their general terms and conditions, the Bank reserves the right to withdraw from the contract at any time or in principle at any time and to close the personal account. The parties shall thus be deprived of their personal account and shall have outstanding debts and active executions. Of course, such a party, in principle, does not want or can no longer open a transaction account. Such a person is thus in a situation where, for example, he is entitled to receive financial social assistance, a child allowance, subsistence allowance and the like, but cannot receive funds because he does not have an account. The Centre for Social Work cannot pay in cash, nor does it make payments, such as a child allowance to children's special accounts. In rare cases, the Centre for Social Work may decide and pay funds for a month or two at any other account, but this is only exceptional. A similar problem, for example, arises when such a person manages to find a job and does not have an open account because he cannot open an account, he may also have potential problems with the employer. I therefore ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities as well as the Minister for Finance: What should citizens do in such a situation? Is it possible that there are measures in place to resolve this matter? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u266	Thank you very much. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u267	Thank you. Mr Kurnjek, thank you very much for this question, I think it is more than justified in view of the situation in which we are. I can say that at our ministry, i.e. the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, we have already seen this problem in connection with the closure of bank accounts or the inability to open an account to which a party could receive public funds, such as cash social assistance, a child allowance, a protective allowance or a state scholarship. We have found that it should be possible for recipients of social transfers to open a special account, to call it a social account or something like that. On this issue we have already invited representatives of Banka Slovenije, Association Bank Slovenije, Ministry of Finance and Ministry of Justice to the meeting in September. This is an area that concerns all of these entities or stakeholders. After two meetings, we agreed that the Association of Banks, together with Banka Slovenije, would explore the possibility for the Republic of Slovenia to open up to persons who could not otherwise arrange their accounts to each commercial bank a special account to which, our Ministry, would direct public funds and also provide the bank with a list of beneficiaries and amounts. The individual would then contact the bank and raise the money, thereby exempting the funds from enforcement. We expect that all necessary details will be agreed no later than the first half of this December and that our ministry will be able to start paying in the following year. In any case, it may not be just social transfers, it may also be the wider business of the country to the citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u268	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, perhaps a supplement?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u269	I have to say, I don't have much more to add to this answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u270	Thank you very much. Once again, Mr. Kurnjek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u271	Thank you very much. In fact, I would like to say that I am pleased that the ministry has detected this problem because it is actually happening. That's how you at the Ministry and the Members of Parliament tell these problems that they're in. In fact, I am looking forward to this matter as soon as possible, because in some way you or the system of such a citizen, who cannot have an open transaction account, put it in a hopeless position. In cash, however, we know that, in certain cases, the state must not deal with citizens. In fact, I am pleased that this matter will be truly, as you yourself said, settled in a very fast time. Thank you very much for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u272	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, here's your supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u273	I would just like to add that it is actually unacceptable that the State is giving these people resources to help them, and these resources do not come to them for various reasons. This problem needs to be solved. Certainly, until recently, we considered that the law that prevents enforcement from being carried out on these funds, which the state is devoting to citizens and citizens, that this thing works, but does not work, and that we, too, at the Ministry, have been aware of a number of individual problems. Indeed, when a person does not have a means of survival, the state gives him certain resources and cannot reach them, of course, an agreement is needed. I would like to have this agreement already adopted, but we are certainly working to get this done as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u274	Thank you very much. The next question will be raised by the mag. Mr Ivan Vogrin, Minister of the Interior, Dr. Gregor Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u275	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Secretary! In principle, we all know what is happening around the congregation of Ankaran. The National Assembly allowed the holding of a referendum which was successful, and then after the referendum, it did not set up the municipality of Ankaran, after the Constitutional Court by a decision established the municipality of Ankaran, which was supposed to be in 2014; while we all somehow agree that we must have a very expensive country, that we have too many municipalities and that it would make sense to approach slowly, deliberately, to reduce public expenditure, perhaps by rationalising local self-government. Since the congregation of Ankara is not operational at all, I am interested in the following. According to your proposal, about 100 municipalities are expected to end: either by decree or by law, by rapid procedure, by urgent procedure, which has not been approved, but it would probably make sense — one hundred of these. To start at one hundred, with a congregation that is not working at all, and given that it is placed in a space, if we look at graphics — I think that I sent all of this in the question of parliament — it would probably make sense now to approach and abolish the congregation in an appropriate way, even though the question is how the National Assembly should do this because the National Assembly has not set up. I ask you, among other things: Would it be possible to abolish or ensure that this congregation does not begin operating in 2014 and thus begin with one hundred rationalizations of the municipal administration or congregation?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u276	Thank you very much. Dr. Gregor Virant, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u277	That question is multilayered, you might say. If you ask me whether I think the municipality of Ankara is meaningful and rational, I will say that no, as I think for many other municipalities that do not reach some capacity, some population, some ability to manage local affairs themselves. In general, I think that the municipalities in Slovenia are too small and too small. As you have already found, the reforms of local government cannot be done quickly, on the door to the nose, overnight, but should be pursued slowly, gradually and prudently. That is why, at the Ministry of the Interior, we will also take these reforms slowly, gradually and prudently, so that we will first prepare a strategy for the development of local self-government, which will include the integration of municipalities and, of course, the establishment of landscapes as a necessary level of local self-government between municipalities and the country. This strategy will be comprehensive when we have it, we will also discuss it with the associations of the congregations, the three representative associations of the congregations, and of course the congregation of Ankaran will share the fate of all other congregations. On the same criteria as will be applied to others, we will also decide on the congregation of Ankaran. However, we must not repeat exactly the same error that has occurred throughout the history of local self-government since 1994 in Slovenia, which is to decide arbitrarily. If we were to go into this reform in part and say that it should only apply to the Municipality of Ankaran, and we would abolish it, as the Constitutional Court has now established, we would again make exactly the same mistake that we would be making today where we are in local self-government, arbitrarily decide. It is necessary to set criteria, criteria for all congregations, and then, according to these criteria, decide how many we will have, which will be, and what will be their number. Of course, according to the wishes of the local population. The municipality of Ankara has in fact established a Constitutional Court. Now, here you are also asking me how I assess this judgment of the Constitutional Court. Of course, as Minister, I will not judge it, it would be inappropriate and inappropriate for me to criticize it or, in any way, define myself until this decision: it is what it is. There have been many professional debates about it, many have been critical of it, many have agreed with it, but the decision is here and since the decision of the Constitutional Court is, it must be taken into account, respected. The municipality of Ankara is established, with the local elections next year it will also come to life, so it will be established and will then share the fate of all other Slovenian municipalities when it comes to the reform of local self-government. Finally, I would say, if you ask me whether it makes sense that we went to Slovenia to crush this territory so much that we have established 211 and now 212 municipalities, but my answer is no. And this also applies to the congregation of Ankaran, also because in this way the single area of the port of Koper will be divided between the two municipalities and will certainly cause many problems.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u278	Thank you very much. Mr. Vogrin, are you satisfied with the answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u279	Yes, Minister, thank you very much. I am pleased that we agree that this issue is multilayered. I've given you eight questions. Given that it is not expected that, on my proposal, the National Assembly will hold a general debate – this has not yet happened, nor has Mrs Travel, who is a member of the coalition, this has been achieved, it is said, at least to any of the other non-positional Members – I would ask you if you had written answers to these questions, because this action somehow gives me an opportunity to in-depth debate or to think, to act. Why? In 2005, I was Mayor of Lenart Municipality, you were then the District Minister, Mr Janez Janša was Prime Minister. At the time I wrote to you, it is documented, and all this correspondence is published on the website, that we share the congregations – our congregation then had 12 thousand inhabitants, then we reduced it by 4 thousand, so two new municipalities were created – of course, in the long term harmful. Interestingly, today you are precisely using these words to be irrational, too fragmented and so on. It's a shame we have an 8- to 10-year delay on most things. What we are now saying is that the way in which the current government operates is to destroy the economy will come to light in five to eight years, but now we do not realize that by increasing taxes we cannot preserve the well-being of the economy and the population. Thank you very much anyway.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u280	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete the answer, Minister?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u281	Yeah, I'd fix you. Back then, in the period you're talking about, I wasn't a minister in charge of local self-government, so you never got that attitude on my part, either, because I never had it. I don't change my mind, except when they make me feel the opposite. And for all the key things, political, I've always held the same position, even with local self-government. Yes, I've always argued that we have overly fragmented local self-government, even I have taught students about it and my position is known to many generations of university students. It is true that we have changed coalitions, not positions, because I always say, man must be faithful to principles, principles and ideas, and this also applies to a political party. Written answers to this question – you have asked an oral question so that I can also answer you from point to point. How is it possible that the National Assembly allowed the call for and implementation of the local referendum? In this case, as in many other cases, he acted arbitrarily in my opinion. Do you believe that the National Assembly must always and strictly observe and follow the decisions of the Constitutional Court? Yeah. Do you think that the National Assembly should respond to the decision by adopting an appropriate law to establish the congregation of Ankaran? Yeah. Do you believe that the Constitutional Court acted within its jurisdiction? Like I said, I'm not gonna judge this because it would be rude. Do you believe that the establishment of the municipality of Ankara will jeopardize the operation and development of the port of Cyprus? The threat is too heavy a word, but it may cause some problems. More than half of the municipalities do not actually meet the conditions. Can the congregation of Ankaran be abolished or brought back into the larger congregation? As part of a broader reform of local self-government, yes, we can. Should the National Assembly, in the process of abolishing or merging municipalities, also want to abolish the municipality of Ankaran, propose a change to the constitutional decision? No, no, no. Amendment to the law. Is it even possible to abolish the Ankaran Congregation? Yes, as part of a broader reform of local self-government. Finally, I would say that I do not like to use the word “disposal” of the congregations because we do not cancel anything, but the congregations will unite in larger and stronger congregations. Every citizen of Slovenia will always have his or her own municipality. If we bring them together, many, 15% of those who now live in smaller municipalities, under 5,000 people, will have a larger, stronger, stronger municipality that will be more likely to face state centralism.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u282	Thank you very much. We can proceed with the next question raised by Mr Samo Bevk, Foreign Minister Karl Erjavac and Minister of Health Tomaž Gantar. Let me say that Minister Karl Erjavec is excusedly absent.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u283	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! On 18 September this year, the Committee on Foreign Policy adopted an initiative to sign the Minamata Convention on Mercury. Between 9 and 11 October, a UNEP conference was held in Minamata and Kumamot, Japan, which adopted a final document on the restrictive use of mercury. More than 800 delegates from 140 countries participated in the coordination of the document. On behalf of the Republic of Slovenia, the Convention was signed by Ambassador Helena Drnovšek Zorko of the Republic of Slovenia. Following the formal adoption of the Minamat Convention, the Executive Director of UNEP Steiner and the Japanese Minister of Environment, Ishihara, opened a convention for signature by the authorised representatives of the countries. By the end of the conference, 91 countries had signed it, including Slovenia. The Conference called on countries to initiate ratification procedures as soon as possible. Japan has committed itself to signing it among the first. The condition for ratification is also to harmonise national legislation with the provisions of the Convention. Slovenia's accession to the Minamat Convention, its early ratification and legislative adaptation to its provisions, could also be an incentive for the establishment of an international centre for mercury in Idrija, established by the Ministry of Environment and Space in 2008. The financial basis is the World Environment Fund Convention, which has in its five-year budgets several billion dollars in drawback funds. I ask Tomaž Gantar and Karl Erjavac, Minister for Health and Foreign Affairs: How are preparations for the ratification of the Minomat Convention on Living Silver taking place? When will it be time for reception in the National Assembly? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u284	Thank you so much for asking. Here you go, Minister Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u285	Thank you, Vice President, and thank you for the question. If I can, indeed, on behalf of the Foreign Minister and in my reply. The Minamat Convention is an international treaty that regulates this issue of mercury. Slovenia has indeed been a party to this Convention in October, signed by 93 countries and ratified by the United States of America. We will, too, but this is in the Government's normative work programme for 2014. This Convention must first be translated into Slovenian, given that this translation is also an integral part of the ratification law of this Convention. We are being prepared by the Office of Chemicals, which has already started work, and this is the office that will then submit to the competent ministry, this is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which is the proposal of this law on ratification, which will then be adopted in the next year in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u286	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u287	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Why am I so exposing this convention? In fact, the World Environment Fund was selected at a preparatory conference in Geneva at the beginning of the year to finance the implementation of the Minamata Convention on Mercury, for example, which has a budget worth $4 billion and $250 million for its projects from July 2010 to July 2014. This Fund is an official financial instrument for the implementation of key international environmental agreements, including for chemicals where mercury is to be included. And when Mrs Monique Barbut visited Slovenia and Idrija the President and Executive Director of the Global Environment Facility, three years ago, she expressed her surprise that our country in the international community was not more active in presenting its initiatives and in drawing on them. At that time, she highlighted, three years ago, that this would be particularly current after the adoption of the Minatam Convention on Mercury. That is why it is the interest of the Republic of Slovenia to ratify this document as soon as possible and then to prepare projects with which to run for this World Environment Fund, because we all guarantee from day to day how the financially supported country is, which could encourage a number of projects and draw some additional money for environmental projects as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u288	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, would you like to? Was that just a comment? Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u289	One month ago, this was signed, and I think it's ready for a proposal for next year. I think it'll be quick, but there's some work before I said, [[...]] I think we will probably still be in time to draw on some of this money, so that this problem can also be resolved in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u290	Thank you very much for your further explanation. Mr Borut Ambrožič is next. He has a question for the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment. It's a Jew.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u291	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings to all present, especially the ministerial team! Allow me to start at the beginning with some information that tells us that the packaging industry in the European Union employs about 1.35 million people. It is not surprising, therefore, that 8 billion plastic bags end up as waste materials in the European market. The negative impact of waste packaging on the environment is therefore undeniable. On many occasions, however, we do not ask ourselves how we came to be in this situation. The answer is: with progress, of course. But the question is, with what progress? The packaging, which includes paper, cardboard, cardboard, wood, textiles, adhesives, adhesive strips, metal, glass and other materials and plastics, has, as each product, its life cycle, of course, from its origin, transport through use to reuse and destruction and or recycling. The plastics, as you know, gradually replaced some packaging materials because they become plastic when heated and are more easily formed in this state. But it is not too much to recall the initial enthusiasm for the characteristic properties of today’s already mentioned indestructible asbestos, which caused so much distress during the later period of its use. The health consequences of exposure will be felt for many, unfortunately, for a long time. Thermoplastics also represent a quarter of all plastics produced, most of which are used for transport packaging, read sachets, bottles and the like. There's more information. According to data from environmentalists without borders, which have already launched an extensive action on this subject in 2010, Slovenian consumers discard 200 smaller so-called transparent free bags each minute, which are usually intended for fruit, vegetables, meat and fish, which are discarded shortly after use. The Environmental Research Institute also published data a while ago that every Slovenian spends between 150 and 300 bags a year. Taking into account the fact that at the end of 2012 Slovenia was over 2 million 59 000 potential consumers in the sum of 300 to 600 million plastic bags per year in Slovenia. Environmental research by Andreja Pavlinus has also shown in 2007 that 38% of plastic bags are in the natural reserve area of Fat Rtič – Strunjan – Fiesa and the Piran Church. That is why an integrated product policy is urgently needed. Now I'm wondering if it's just time to pull out of the drawer a few years ago a law on restricting the use of plastic bags. I therefore ask the Minister for Agriculture or the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment: How does it intend to act in view of the European Commission's proposal on 4 November, which requires EU Member States to reduce the use of light plastic bags less than 50 microns and 0.05 millimetres? In the form of a law or some other sub-law?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u292	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambrožich. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u293	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr Member, for the current question. At the beginning of this month, the European Commission published a proposal for a directive to reduce the consumption of light plastic carrier bags. The main reason for adopting this proposal is that carrier bags with a thickness below 50 microns can often be used only once and in the environment can be broken down for up to 100 years. Decommissioning products are often harmful microscopic particles that are particularly dangerous in the marine environment. According to the proposal, Member States could choose between a set of measures, such as payable shopping bags, national targets for reducing their use and banning them under certain conditions, which should be in line with the rules of the internal market as set out in the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. So far, no specific measures have been laid down in Slovenia to limit the consumption of light plastic carrier bags, but merchants themselves, on their own initiative, have restricted access to these bags – the introduction of carrier bags for repeated use and the removal of free plastic bags. All carrier bags, irrespective of the material from which they are made, are packaging and therefore this area is regulated by the Regulation on the handling of packaging and packaging waste. When the Directive is adopted, it will, of course, be necessary to amend or supplement that regulation so that the transposition of the new Directive into the Slovenian legal order is correct and complete, or if you allow it, Member of Parliament, Slovenia will actively participate in the adoption of the European Directive aimed at protecting the environment. However, I propose that we act at the same time as all other European countries, because once the directive is adopted, we need to implement it in our legal order and I believe that we will be successful in this area this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u294	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Ambrožich.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u295	Thank you, Minister, for an encouraging response. I am pleased that the thoughts of the Minister or Government go in this sustainable direction. However, it can only be further said here that in 2010/2011, when the draft Law on the Prohibition or Restriction of the Use of Plastic Bags was created by a co-signature of 36 Members of the Parliament at that time, meaning relatively high support for this environmental legislation, there were some solutions that our immediate neighbours had adopted at that time. In particular, I have here in mind the neighbour of the Republic of Italy, who has also been banning the use of these thinner bags since 2011, not to mention the third world countries to which we are hard to compare, but which have adopted a complete ban. Therefore, I am already predicting in advance that with non-governmental organisations which, at the principle level, support the appropriate adoption of legislation, which you have rightly concluded is not necessary in the form of a law, but also in the form of a regulation, we would therefore like to participate constructively in the creation of this important document. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u296	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambrožich. I do not think there is an additional question or additional question, so I would like to give the floor to the next Member who will raise the question of the Member, Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič, who has a question for the Minister of Labour, the family, social affairs and equal opportunities.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u297	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister and Ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Today we have already discussed the issue, which I would like to deepen a little bit, which was a question aimed at the President of the Government, in connection with the employment of young people. The problem of youth unemployment became extremely acute during the crisis, and in particular it escalated in 2012, when Slovenia joined that group of countries that recorded the highest unemployment rate or growth rate. This was also the reason why Slovenia has become in some way entitled to special funds from the EU fund, which is called the Youth Initiative. Last year, in the framework of the Committee on Labour, the Family and Social Affairs, I set up a special problem-oriented meeting aimed at this issue, and there were four, which were quite binding conclusions. Well, among other things, the Ministry prepares a youth employment strategy or programme as soon as possible. Although the meeting was held at 20. 6. 2012, that hasn't happened yet. That's why I'm interested, Madam Minister. What are the measures the Government has already taken to deal with this difficult issue, and what are the measures it is still planning? I also want to know: Will this action programme somehow be linked to a single document? When will this document be presented to the public and when will it become more comprehensive? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u298	Thank you very much. Dr. Anya Digger Dark, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u299	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for the question. We talk a lot about youth unemployment. It must be said immediately at the outset that the situation is unlikely to be significantly better until Slovenia has economic growth. I'm afraid so. However, the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and equal opportunities are primarily responsible for the area of active employment policy measures and the creation of conditions for employment. We have been trying to do our best since March 21st, when I took the oath of Minister of Labour here in this Chamber. If you look at the data, it is particularly gratifying that the involvement of young people or the general involvement in active employment policy measures in this year have significantly increased, as was the case last year. If we look at numbers, so far this year, from January to October, about 35,000 unemployed people have been included there from one of the active employment policy measures, which is 56.5% more than in the same period last year, with a number of more than 12 thousand people today, we are very careful to include young people in these measures and about 12,000 young people are also involved in these measures. It is also important to monitor and adapt the effectiveness of these measures. That's what we're trying to do. In particular, subsidies are those that produce results this year and also public works, and we have also provided more resources for this purpose through redeployments. In the second year, the situation will be significantly better and we will only increase the €17 million in public works, and we expect more than this year, when we have about 4,000 entries, we will have about 9,000 there next year. It is also important to mention the adoption of a law allowing employers to employ a young unemployed person who is up to 30 years of age and unemployed or registered at the institution for at least 3 months to employ her indefinitely and, if employed for an indefinite period of at least two years, for this period, the actual reasonable payment of the employer’s contributions, which means that she will have a 16.10 % lower labour costs, which is a very important factor for young people entering the labour market. We also try to make young people more competitive with our subsidies that we pay. Last week, Friday, we also presented a public call for a new scheme, this is Youth Mentoring, where we want to connect young job seekers, unemployed people, with the experience and knowledge of older people in companies, and we will also encourage this with a subsidy. In this way, 500 young people will be given the opportunity to work. Tax relief is also important, we are talking about a more targeted tax relief that the employer can enforce if he employs an unemployed person under 26 years of age for an indefinite period of time who is unemployed for at least 6 months. We already have tax relief in the system, but it has not been the most received, so we are talking with the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economic Development about how to do this more effectively, especially as a form of incentives for young people. The most important document we have been dealing with since the summer is the Youth Guarantee Scheme. As you know, we are obliged by the Member States of the European Union to prepare this implementation programme of Youth Guarantees. We have set this document wider than most European countries, because this Europe is committed to allowing young people under the age of 25 to do so, and we have extended it to a group of up to 29 years. This document clearly states that, within four months of the completion of their education, we will offer jobs, including paid internships, or training in the workplace, participation in formal education or a shorter form of institutional or practical training. However, it must be a condition for them to be entered in the employment records of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia. We are preparing this programme together with young people and will also be presented in a short time, a day for public hearing. If I just say the numbers, the funds that the country will spend, and also through the European Social Fund, will be allocated to about 160 for two years of implementation of this programme. [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u300	Thank you very much, Minister. We can continue with the second round. So we are moving on to the second round of questions of Members and Members and the first of the debaters or those who will ask the question is mag. Ivan Vogrin. He has a question for the Minister for Economic Development and Technology of Mag. The Stéphane's sleigh.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u301	I've cleared everything up here with the minister, but it's for the public. Look, that's the problem that the economists warned me about. Indeed, some time ago they referred to the topic of Cooperation or the opening up of companies in Austria. In a very broad explanation, there are arguments why Slovenian companies would open up businesses in Austria. It's a miracle she's a mag. Marion Biber of Aba Invest, something similar to the Slovenian development agency or former JAPTI and similar, explained the tax and business environment. By all standards, we're way behind. They said how many companies have been set up in Austria over the last few years and also what incentives the Slovenian entrepreneurs are looking forward to. I think that nothing is wrong with Slovenian companies opening up businesses in Austria, but if this is a strategy and policy of the Ministry of Economy, it is wrong. Because I believe that the Ministry of the Economy must create a competitive business and tax environment in Slovenia and there is no need to invent warm water. We look at some of the most successful countries in Europe, this is Austria, how things are regulated in the tax, administrative and legislative fields, and such laws and regulations are adopted by us, including by taxing Slovenian companies to about the same level as Austrian companies. Minister, you are the man who came directly from the economy, from the production company, so to speak, you are not one who has not seen the company from within at all. That's what's keeping me going, and I'm asking you: Will your work be in the sense that we will also create such a competitive business and tax environment in Slovenia?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u302	Thank you very much. Minister, let's hear what you and Mr. Vogrin have said.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u303	We talk a lot. Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President, thank you very much, Mr Vogrin. I appreciate your knowledge from the economy and here we are the same, I can fully agree with you that we are creating with us and will create a competitive environment for businesses and Austria at some point in time. As you yourself said, Austria can set a great example in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u304	Thank you very much. Would you like another supplement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u305	Mr. Minister, thank you very much for your brief and concise answer. We have one problem, both you and I: they only count the results. You know that exactly. I speak for others more than for us. It's hard to say that I was a successful CEO when the company went bankrupt. Slovenian politicians find it difficult to say that those who have been on the scene for at least ten years have been successful if Slovenia went bankrupt. So, because I've got some insider information to keep this government going for the rest of the term, that's insider information, that means you have two years of time -- that's a lot of time -- to change something, change it and change it in terms of a better tax and business bureaucrat environment. I'll give you the case. This morning, I was in a company that was a few years ago, and I'm not going to say how much, because tomorrow I could get another tax inspection, was chosen for the Golden Gazette, the fastest growing company. Do you know what happened 14 days later? They got a tax inspection! So it's a sin for us to be successful. They told me they were sorry they let them go to the polls. The second thing that happened to this company, owned by foreigners, was that they had a lot of calls about how foreigners invest only in unclean technologies in Slovenia – and all environmental and other permits. Those who say that should ask them to bring in clean technologies, but they don't talk. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u306	Would you like another word, Minister? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u307	Thank you very much. I would only add that I also agree that in Slovenia it is very difficult to be a successful company, a successful entrepreneur, a successful director, because they will hang you from everything to prove that you are not successful, but that you are under-average. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u308	Thank you very much. We can keep going, mag. Vogrin? [[Yeah.]] Next up, it's mag. Majda Potrat, who will ask the question to the Minister I apologize, we have released Mr Ambrožič, I am being warned. [[...]] Mr Ambrožič will raise the question to the Minister of the Interior, Dr Gregor Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u309	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings for both ministers and ministers and other colleagues! This time my question is directly related to the programme or project Stop bureaucracy, which I personally strongly support and welcome and also congratulate the Minister on his introduction. In this regard, however, I would like to draw attention to a specific case. Šiviljska firm Boxmark Leather from Kidričev in Ptuj employs almost a thousand 600 employees and is a third European company that produces leather covers for luxury brands of cars such as Mercedes, Volkswagen, Audi and other brands of cars. This company wants to expand or upgrade the business premises at the location or land of which it also owns to the value of an investment of EUR 6 million. The moment of enlargement has also created a new possibility of cooperation, which is very commendable in these times of crisis, which includes the supply of equipment for Lufthansa jumbo jet and the associated possibility of employing an additional 50 workers and workers. On the website of the Municipality of Kidrichev, we can find that it belongs to Kidrichev among the young urban, a modern, soulless settlement. It was created as a newly built industrial settlement, which developed into a separate local and municipal centre. According to the 2010 SURS data, there were 6 000 650 people living in the municipality within the municipality. Every 15 population in the municipality was receiving at least one money social assistance and, on average, 11.1% of the registered unemployment rate was 11.1%. In the administrative unit, which includes the municipality, there are 69,000 inhabitants who live in 207 settlements. These are figures showing how urgent it is to offer an aid deadline, and in particular to simplify bureaucratic procedures for companies wishing to invest in a particular sector in a particular area and consequently to provide additional jobs that are still needed in these times of crisis. Despite the fact that it is a demanding object in this case, the investor’s role is complete and would deserve an early examination or response. Of course, in practice, that is not the case. In the newspaper Finance, it has been calculated how much less of an inflow into the budget would have been if the 50 jobs that would have enabled the expansion of the company's operations had been delayed by the bureaucratic delay for half a year, I am talking about 105 000 euros and 17 thousand 650 euros of income and contributions. All of this under the assumption that 50 new employees would receive a minimum wage of 556.83 euros. So I'm asking the minister in question: Does the Ministry of the Interior consistently take into account commitments in the coalition contract relating to the shortening of the decision-making period in administrative procedures, the establishment of an effective and friendly public administration as a service for citizens and businesses? Does he also in practice implement the Stop bureaucracy project on the case of Boxmark Leather from Kidrichev near Ptuj? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u310	Thank you very much. Minister Dr. Virant, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u311	Thank you for asking. First, about a specific case. In this particular case, Boxmark received a building permit for the extension of production a few days ago. She got it within the marriage of two months. Prior to that, Arso, the famous Arsa, issued an environmental consensus within 7 days so that the whole process was relatively short and could be even shorter. This company approached me a while ago with the desire to somehow bring their investment to life as an example of good official practice and asked the Ministry and me personally to monitor the licensing process. That's what we did. So once again, Arso has given his consent in an extremely short time. However, I must admit that we did not specifically ask administrative units how they would act, because administrative units issue permits relatively quickly. I was surprised when the company turned to us again, if you've been waiting for a month and a half for a building permit, otherwise still within the legal framework, but still. As soon as they turned to us again, we asked the administrative unit if it would issue a permit within the time limit it would issue, and within a few days the building permit was issued. This isn't about some kind of lengthy procedure. It was all inside the hands. But I agree that it could be done even faster. And now I'm going to that general part of the question. We take Project Stop bureaucracy very seriously. We constantly collect proposals and pack them up every once in a while in an action plan adopted by the Government, which binds all ministries. In the last year, 90 measures have been implemented. One of the most important areas of the Ministry of the Economy is deregulation of craft activities. The number of activities in need of a trade permit has rescinded. I think it's come from 120 on about 30, 35, something like that. And there was a lot more. We also react in specific cases. If I give you one more case. When Durs issued several thousand wrong income information calculations this year, and when they wanted to proceed first by asking all recipients of these calculations to raise objections, to issue decisions and deliver them by mail and so on, we acted and agreed with them that these 5,000 informational calculations were simply cancelled and sent notices of new ones and there was not all this bureaucratic, I would say, walking through the labyrinths. These measures will continue. With regard to the speed of the resolution of matters, in particular in the area of building permits and any permit relating to investment, I would say the following. There's still room for maneuvers here. According to international data, Slovenia is very good when it comes to the so-called "business start up" – I apologize, Mrs. Potrata, this is such an international term. This is the process of setting up a company. The process of setting up a company is fast, obtaining permits, and we are worse off there. Again, in 2012, on average, 21.87 days were spent on administrative units for the construction permit from the date of completion of the application and from the date of the full application to the time of service, it is said when the permit by post comes to the investor and 30 days. Well, it's not that critical. But it is never so good that it could not be better, so we are planning the following measures. For the first time, to measure the speed of rescue we also capture the so-called hidden backlogs. This is the time between the submission of the project and the day when the project is complete, when the role is complete. Then, in the field of the Minister of Infrastructure, he plans to amend the Construction Act, which will establish documentation for the acquisition of a building permit. This would only include a so-called leading map, where spatial aspects of investment are defined, so-called gabarites, floris, height, external appearance, etc., not technical details. Then it is the idea that the building permit would take place through the "one stop" system all in one place so that the administrative unit would also obtain all the consent for the investor [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u312	Thank you very much, Dr. Virant. Here you go, Mr. Ambrožich.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u313	Thank you, therefore, for the encouraging information. As a matter of fact, it's more of a supplement, a sub-question, if you want, I can define it that way. It is indeed necessary to exert every effort not to be present as in this year by the media to the exposed problem. So you probably all remember a young entrepreneur who wanted to build an ambitious, not micro factory on the Slovenian side of Radgona, so brewery, and then gave up after six months because of the longevity of the proceedings. He moved to the Austrian side, we can say only a half-mile forward, where he set up a brewery for two million investments, which supplies beer mainly to the Austrian side, but I recently found out that Slovenia too; it is said that we import beer back to Slovenia after unnecessary bureaucratic backlogs. It is likely that everyone else, from the Union of Consumers to individuals, will be happy to monitor the progress of the project in question, which I once again support and welcome. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u314	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambrožich. You want another word, Dr. Virant. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u315	Yes, thank you. I'll take advantage of that understatement. Together with the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Ministry of Infrastructure is, of course, bearable here, we plan simplifications in this area. This is about two things. It is for the spatial planning, planning process on the one hand, and for the authorisation process on the other. The process of issuing permits, as I said before, is not such a big problem. There's a lot to do, to simplify, to get things to one place, to shorten, etc. But the bigger problem is spatial planning, where we have legislation that virtually every space regulator is told to any institution that protects some interest – cultural heritage, nature, environment, agricultural land, etc. – allows him to insert a stick into the wheels and give his veto. And that's a huge problem. We used to have a system when these interests met at a table and then the competent minister for space or government, someone cut and made a decision and balanced development interests on the one hand and security interests on the other. Today, however, it is practical for officials from the second, third, to place a stick in bicycles and veto development projects; and this is a terrible problem. The procedures for the adoption of municipal spatial plans are also five, seven and more years. This is a disaster. So we have a bigger problem, we have to clear this up in our heads, we have a bigger problem than permits in planning, in spatial planning. There are also changes planned here, in the sense that development projects, where the municipalities agree, agree with them, foresee a rapid, short-term, simplified process where all these interests would be aligned relatively quickly and if they were not able to be reconciled, the government would eventually cut down and take a decision. This is a key matter. The spatial planning process should be drastically simplified. As far as permits are concerned, and as I said, they are not so long procedures, if the project is well prepared, things are going relatively fast, but it is never so good that they could not go even better. We work together here, Minister Židan in the Arsa area, which is very simplifying, Minister Omerzel in the field of construction legislation, and I am somehow making sure that administrative units do this as quickly as possible and in practice.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u316	Thank you very much, Dr. Virant. Next up, it's mag. Majda Potrat has a question for the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Kopač Dark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u317	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Madam Minister, Madam Ministers, Members of Parliament! In fact, in recent discussions when the budget and the Real Estate Tax Act were adopted, I was encouraged to ask Dr. Anji Kopač Dark when the opposition continued to make clear that the biggest burden of financial stabilisation in Slovenia would be borne by families, and the obvious also flew directly to the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs, Persons with Disabilities and Equal Opportunities. I recall last year's budget debate and the fact that the opposition succeeded with an amendment increasing the level of school nutrition funds. This was a response to the debates at the time and the worsening social situation found. However, the question is whether such individual solutions make it really good enough to pursue family politics. That is why, Madam Minister, I ask you: What are those measures of family policy that can be found also in the individual legal provisions by which the Ministry ensures that the burden of the social crisis and the financial crisis does not overwhelm families? Last but not least, we have in the constitution a provision, not only that we are a social and legal state, but also that concern for children is, in the first place, the concern of parents, but also of countries. So I'm wondering: How could we narrow down measures that show that this government cares about the family, the children and the future of Slovenia? Because only appropriate measures will improve the demographic image of Slovenia. Because if we take the last statistical data into account, in the first half of the year, some less than 600 children were born again, if I refer to the data of the Statistical Office, I do not remember the exact number, but the growth is already followed by the decline. And I thank you for this part of the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u318	Thank you very much. Dr. Anya Digger Dark, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u319	Good evening, Madam Vice President. Madam Ambassador Mag. Majda Potrat, thank you for asking. It will be difficult in five minutes because in this area the country actually works a lot. If I start with the aggregate we're going to use for family policy. At the annual level, family policy is directly around €600 million, representing between 6% and 7% of our country's annual budget. While this does not include, if you want, a tax policy measure, or an income policy, where parents, in order to have dependent family members, will receive a relief. This is usually excluded from a family policy, but it is not in any way negligible. The transfers paid by the State on the basis of parental protection and family benefits receive about 310 000 people each month. Family policy rights are defined mainly in the Parental Protection and Family Benefits Act and for realisation are allocated annually, i.e. this year, the following numbers: for children's allowances of 222 million euros, for partial payment for lost income of 6.27 million euros, for a large family allowance of 10.5 million, for assistance at birth of a child of 4.5 million, for a child's allowance and protection of the child of 8.53 million, for a parental allowance of 8.35 million, for parental benefits such as maternity leave, paternity leave and leave for care and child protection, 330 million euros. In addition, we are also helping children who cannot live in their home family, so we are talking about the livestock we are paying off, and we are spending 6.3 million euros a year on this. At the same time, we also pay for parents who do not pay maintenance for their children, for whom we spend 2.6 million euros a year, and this is one of the most growing items because we have more and more problems here. In fact, if we look at the impact on family policy in recent years, these transfers that are being paid have been the most affected by the ZUJF, which has set the limit for some of the universal family benefits, such as a large family allowance, to support the birth of a child, to 64% of the average net income per family member, which is just over €500. However, this is a matter of temporaryity, and we have not permanently intervened in these rights by law, and when it is better in this country, I believe that we will be able to raise and achieve universality again in certain areas. If we look at, devote, not only to families, households, about a billion 300 million per year and just pay 240 000 children a child supplement each month, we pay 165 000 children and students a subsidized school meal or lunch – not yet data for the current school year, this applies to the previous school year – we subsidise 500 000 student lunches each month, we subsidize 85,000 children a month a kindergarten, over 90 thousand students and students a month a state subsidizes public transport, we pay over 40,000 scholarships each month, we pay thousands of 300 children a month at the birth of a child, we pay 24 thousand families a year an allowance for a large family, we pay a supplement for 6000 children a month, we pay about 4 thousand children a month a living, and finally we provide a free vaccination to around 75 thousand children every year. So, all of this is important for family policy. On Friday, the National Assembly will discuss a new Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits, with which I believe we continue to pursue good family policy. For example, an important measure is to introduce, in particular in terms of equality between men and women and greater opportunities for men, fathers in the care of children, a gradual 30-day paid paternity leave, introduce payment of the hour when we have the right to breast-feed a mother under the directive. In short, there are many of these measures and it is important that we also wish to draw up a resolution on family policy next year. We have had this resolution since 1993, and it has taken great steps, but I believe that after this period we need to look at what we have achieved and where family policy should be pursued. In the course of the broad debate, preparation will take place in the following year. [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u320	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mrs. Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u321	Thank you for that part of the answer. Well, when a person hears together what all those measures are promised, but they're not included, say, those that are essential to me, it's free education if they take it. We usually forget this because we take it for granted that our schooling is free of charge. But I'd be interested in another look at it. You have aggregated, so to speak, data and are numbers per share of the population or share of GDP. Now I want to know: Could you also provide me with specific information on what this means for my family? How many of these different family transfers are there? What does this mean for the family budget? If it is about that, it can be evaluated as well. How many of these different benefits are there? For example, what can family policies mean for a single parent family or for a large family? Thank you for this part of the answer, too, for this part of the answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u322	Thank you very much. Dr. Digger of the Dark Ones, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u323	This work will make it a little harder because family situations are very different. Above all, we are having a difficult operation and we do not want to operate on the concept of an average family, because this already indicates something that would be on average. According to the statistics of the SURS, we know the size of the average household, and it is about 2.5 members. Then if we look at their situation and, given the statistics on what this average household is, what age is, it would be possible to calculate, at some average income of this family, what social transfers both from social policy and family policy. Our family policy is basically, if we look at the children's allowance as one of the most important transfers, it is very social. So we're not a country that has universal child support. We've got a lot of progress on this. If we look, the one who doesn't have any income gets about 120 euros for the first child, and the one, the eighth grade, which is now blocked by the ZUJF, gets about 20 euros. So we have a big gap between how much an individual family gets. We have certainly been very successful so far in reducing the risk of child poverty in our country. However, we are also talking to the Ministry of Finance in the direction of enabling individuals, because we know their tax number, so that once a year they can get on a home list that would tell us what they get from the country. Because it is at a time of crisis that we find that the awareness of citizens and citizens about what they get from the various titles of the country by policy, if you want, social and family, is too low and that we take rights as self-evident. On this page, there would certainly be information about how much it costs on average to train children in primary school, in a high school which is free of charge. Thus, in order for each family, each adult member to receive once a year an actual summary of all that is justified by the State and what he has gained on his own account. This would strengthen the awareness of citizens and citizens of the importance of the social state, also of why taxes are being paid by all. So they don't go into some imaginary story, but actually into the means to pay off these social transfers that families still feel materially every month. We have people at the Ministry who are actually calling and I can't imagine that [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] payment of child allowances, because this would actually mean a major crisis for some families in this budget they have, i.e. the family budget and the obligations they have to pay monthly.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u324	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the last question of today, which will be raised by Mr Samo Bevk, Minister of Health Tomaž Gantar, and also by the Minister of Education, who is absent.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u325	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! In the media we could see again that in the school or kindergarten in Black Vrh nad Idrija there is an increased concentration of radon. That's why I want to know: How is inspection of radioactive gas concentrations carried out, especially in kindergartens and primary schools? It is incomprehensible for me to have the Inspectorate decide that the decision requires re-measurement in only one casino, but not in other school premises, which could potentially be exposed to increased radon concentrations. We discussed this problem in mid-October, when we visited the Minister of Education, Dr. Jerne Pikal, in Idrija. I also drew attention to him with a question from the Member States at the October meeting of the National Assembly. At the end of the week, I also received a letter from a group of Montenegrin primary schools which rightly requires effective action by competent institutions at national and local level. In addition to the only authorized one, this is the Institute of Safety at the Work of Ljubljana, which carried out the measurements in the casino, and from 14 October to today the Mine of Living Silver Idrija also carried out measurements in the basement and ground-floor premises of the elementary school and not only in the casino. As far as I know, these results will only be known in the coming days. In addition, tomorrow, representatives of the congregation also have a meeting at the school ministry with a competent service, where there will also be talks about the rehabilitation of the Montenegrin school. I ask the Minister of Health, Tomaž Gantar, and the Minister of Education, Dr. Jernej Pikal: Is the approach of inspection services correct if they focus only on measurements in a specific space and not on the entire floor and basement part of the facility? I also want to know: Is there anything new about the provision of Article 46 of the Law on Protection against Ionising Radiation and Nuclear Safety regarding the obligations of the State in the rehabilitation of public institutions? You said something about this to me, Your Honor Minister, at the previous October session of the month. However, since the matter is back to normal and things have not improved since the Inspectorate's decision, I have decided to ask this question again. Thank you very much in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u326	Thank you very much. Here you are, Minister Tomaž Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u327	Thank you for asking. I find it difficult to comment on whether the conduct of the inspection services is correct. Indeed, it is a professional question of these services, people who are qualified in this field, and I do not hope to say whether their conduct is right or wrong. I suppose it is, after all. Given that radiation, including this radioactive radon, can be the source of radiation in different places of space, the reasons can be very local in some part, and therefore I believe that they are deciding on the way they work as they decide. The fact is, this is where the excess was found. This is more than 6 millisivers to inform the leadership and to carry out this inspection on the basis of this Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for Protection against Radiation. Within the framework of the inspection, a little more concretely and precisely, the reasons are sought and, where necessary, some additional measurements are carried out and then require, on the basis of the decision of the inspector of this office, concrete measures and deadlines for their removal. As I was informed, the time limit adopted was for the removal or reduction of this radiation on 6 January 2014. As regards the responsibility itself, of course, the Inspector or the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection against Radiation shall also inform the competent ministry and the competent ministry shall then ensure that the reasons for such radiation are eliminated, and may also provide additional means to remedy the deficiencies, provided that this is not possible with other measures such as an investment or with certain envisaged construction works. In this case, I think it is decided that other measurements will actually be needed, given that this is not one place, but even a school, and that it is necessary to provide funds by the State, in particular the administration, that this can be done at the beginning of this year or the new year 2014. I think the problem is being solved. I'm saying, it's hard to comment on just the Inspector's substantive decision or these professional services.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u328	Thank you very much. Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u329	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President, Your Honor! I would also ask that the Minister responsible for education, Dr Jernej Pikalo, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, respond to my question at the first regular meeting of the National Assembly. Indeed, the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for Radiation Protection has set up on 6 January to reduce these radiation loads. However, the fact is that Article 46(4) of the previously cited law literally states that if the doses referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article are exceeded in facilities intended to implement the educational, cultural, health or educational programme, the State shall provide the means to implement measures to reduce the exposure referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. It is said that the State must provide the means of recovery. Some things go easier with the ventilation. For example, today or Saturday we were able to read an article in Del that discusses the problem of the Montenegrin school, and we have also read the heartwarming news that the results of the basic school in Kočevska River are practically satisfactory with the cheapest measures. If it turns out in other cases that more intervention is needed, this will be a huge burden for the state budget, so that they are now on the move both by the state and by the local communities to provide funds for the rehabilitation of the premises. I think that in addition to national and local resources, budgetary resources from different European funds will also need to be sought. So: How about these funds, Mr. Minister? Is it true, and this is important for the whole country, that the price of measuring the only authorised institution in the Republic of Slovenia for one classroom is 1,000 euros? This is if we add up all classrooms in Slovenia and if we want to check them, a very high number. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u330	Thank you very much, Mr. Bevk. Minister, would you like a supplement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u331	In fact, it is difficult for me to respond to the position of Minister Pikal now, but the fact is that they have been informed of this. In this particular case, the added intervention is likely to be necessary. As already mentioned, the amount of radiation depends on a number of reasons, the porosity of the soil, the method of construction and so on. Of course, if this is the reason for excessive radiation burdens, then recovery is also more expensive and it is the responsibility of each department responsible for ensuring it, and it is also the means necessary to remedy the deficiencies. I do not know if an assessment of this necessary investment is already being prepared at a specific school, but the fact is that the deadline is set and after this period it will be necessary to restrict or actually restrict the use of this space and find another way. In fact, it is probably clear to everyone that these children can no longer be overburdened and that such funds will have to be provided in one way or another.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-18-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u332	Thank you very much. Minister Pikalo will respond to your request at the next meeting. This has exhausted all parliamentary questions for today, which were 43. To all of you who have insisted to the end, I would like to thank the ministers and ministers for their answers. I'm breaking this agenda. We continue tomorrow, 19 November, when the National Assembly will also decide on all the proposed decisions as part of the vote. This concludes today's session. Good night and good night!
