ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-35.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 35th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 58 and the second paragraph of Article 60 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Members and Members cannot attend today's meeting: Mrs Eva Irgl, Mrs Iva Dimic, Mr Jožef Horvat, Mr Roberto Battelli, Mr Jožef Kavticnik, Mr Srečko Meh and Mag. Andrey Shircelj. I've invited government representatives to the meeting. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 35th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday, 10 May 2013, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received a proposal to extend the agenda of the meeting, so I propose to the National Assembly that the agenda for today's meeting be set, as you have received by reference. We're moving on to a day-to-day decision. And before we go to the decision-making process, I ask you to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We vote on the agenda. There are 62 Members and Members present, 61 votes against none. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 35th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving on to one. On the day-to-day basis, this is a report by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the Stability Programme – Supplement 2013 and the National Reform Programme 2013-2014. The Government has sent the Stability Programme – Supplement 2013 and the National Reform Programme 2013-2014 to the National Assembly on the basis of Article 239 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. On the basis of the second paragraph of Article 239 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I have sent you the document referred to on 13 May 2013. Mag. Alenki Bratušek, President of the Government, I give the floor to explain these documents.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-35.ana.u2	Dear Members and Members, citizens and citizens! When Slovenia sent the National Reform Programme and the Stability Programme report to the European partners last Friday, it forwarded not only two documents, but also a clear message: we know what we are doing and we know that it will be difficult. And let me make one thing very clear. The European Commission has not yet given any assessment of our two documents. And what happens in the media is speculation. Yesterday evening, Commissioner Rehn marked the measures as encouraging, correct solutions to a number of key challenges. He added, however, that it was too early to say whether the measures planned would be sufficient. The situation is still manageable, but Slovenia must not delay. His words were that very decisive action was needed. The leader of the Euro Group, however, says that Slovenia must act swiftly and decisively. Above all, it must restore confidence in the banking sector and its resilience. The macroeconomic balance in Slovenia has not been created in the last 50 days when I am leading the government alone. The report, which was published by the European Commission on 10 April this year, was based on the actions and programmes of the previous government and was obviously not satisfied with it, so Spain and I are at the door of action. In late May, however, we will be able to discuss whether the measures taken by this Government have convinced them. On Friday, when we submitted both documents, it was exactly 50 days of our government. And in those 50 days, the government managed to draw up two very important documents. This is the Stability Programme and the National Reform Programme. The issue of bonds and bonds and the price of debt was indeed high, but still lower than the last October debt. Once again, lower than the last October assignment. We were able to reach an agreement with the public sector trade unions, establish dialogue with the protestors and start rescuing businesses. For Cimos, who was dealt with by the last two governments, but did not succeed in finding solutions, we were able to find the consensus of all stakeholders. What failed earlier in 550 days, we were able to do in the first 50 days of our government. And that is only because we are aware that every job is important for Slovenia. For Pekko, which the former government has already sold since all the procedures were completed, we have managed to tighten the buyer's job guarantees that must be maintained. And that is only because we are aware that every job is important for Slovenia. But the key is that we put out the fire that spread across Cyprus into our country. There was a lot of speculation, from media to still unclear actions by one of the credit rating houses on the day of the bond issue. But we succeeded – we succeeded without threats, no regrets, no accusations of who would be to blame if there were no pensions, no wages, no compensation. We've shown that we know what we're doing because we know it's gonna be hard. The Council can ensure that Slovenia will not be an additional risk factor in a risky international economic situation. However, no one can guarantee us that we will not feel the consequences of any further exacerbation of the debt crisis and the fall in economic activity in the euro area and the EU. Therefore, today's presentation of the basic moves of both documents, which together form a coherent and thoughtful basis for the future functioning of the Government, I begin with something, all the earlier than promising data. Umar's predictions are based on the actions of the past government, so I believe that with the steps taken by this government, the next forecasts will be better, but at this point we have forecasts of what we have. And Umar predicts that the gross domestic product is expected to be 1.9% lower in 2013. Such expectations are based on assumptions that the situation in the international environment will worsen, the continuation of difficult access to funding sources for the country and banks and the continuation of fiscal consolidation. In situations of increased uncertainty and consumer caution, consumption will also be seriously reduced. The reduction in the final consumption of households and countries is expected to be 3.7% in 2013. Domestic consumption will also continue to decline in 2014, which will be affected by further financial resource constraints, the deterioration of the labour market and the consolidation of public finances. With weak economic activity and consequently restrictive staff and wage policies, they therefore expect a further reduction in the number of employees and a rise in unemployment this year and next year. The average number of registered unemployed is thus projected to be 123 000 500 in 2013 and 13.4% in 2013. The stability of the labour market is not expected until 2015. Between 2013 and 2016, the average economic growth will be only 0.3%. In later years, it is envisaged that, with the successful consolidation and preservation of the deficit in the framework outlined and the stabilisation of the banking system, the conditions for financing the state and the indirect private sector will also be relatively improved. This will have a positive impact on overall economic activity and the potential to boost economic growth, which is expected to be around 1.7 % on average in 2017 and 2018. Your Honor! It is clear from just a few basic data and projections that our bet on stable economic growth and the sustainable structural balance of public finances is practically the only possible bet. Not one or the other, but necessarily both — solid finances and solid growth. Faced with structural imbalances, such as corporate over-indebtedness and the burden of poor credit balances, which have a negative impact on economic activity, it is equally important to stress every time that Slovenia has sound macroeconomic foundations that the household sector is among the least indebted in the EU and that public debt is below the EU average. Therefore, our imbalances are still manageable and can be tackled with the right combination and timing of action. The government's key priorities are economic recovery and the consolidation of public finances. With this starting point and objective, we have prepared a set of measures to be implemented by Slovenia this year and next year. They are defined within three pillars or sets if you want: institutional changes in decision-making processes, short-term economic growth recovery measures and improved competitiveness for long-term sustainable growth. Before I take individual measures through the pillars, allow me to touch on the two main objectives of fiscal policy to which Slovenia is committed by the decision of the Council of the EU of December 2009. Reducing the surplus deficit to 3% of GDP and the country's long-term debt stabilisation below 55% of GDP. The structural deficit must be reduced annually by 0.75% of GDP. Slovenia has achieved an average annual structural effort of 0.7% of GDP, and a significant change in macroeconomic circumstances in 2009 has led to a slowdown in deficits below 3% of GDP per year. For this year, the government is planning a 4.2% deficit in gross domestic product, which will amount to 7.9% of gross domestic product due to the single effects of the already executed and anticipated necessary recapitalisations in the banking sector. Structural balance will be achieved with 2017, which will be further supported by the entry of a fiscal rule at constitutional level, because I believe and believe that in the National Assembly, reason will prevail and we will be able to find a real compromise acceptable to all. I expect that the debate on this in the National Assembly will be concluded by the end of May. The fiscal rule enshrined in the Constitution will need to be upgraded in the next 6 months by adopting an implementing law on fiscal rules and by adopting a revised Public Finance Act, in which the adoption process or amending the state budget will need to be further developed. This will fully meet the requirements of legal acts adopted at EU level with a view to strengthening economic governance. The government takes very seriously the commitment made by Slovenia by incorporating a fiscal rule into the Constitution and therefore estimates that the time frame in which the current state of public finances requires full compliance with the fiscal rule takes into account the changed macroeconomic circumstances in view of the situation in which Slovenia was in 2012 when the draft amendment of the Constitution was prepared. The state of the surplus deficit and the debt state is directly affected by a measure that is key to stimulating economic growth. In fact, strengthening the stability of banks. The transfer of bad assets from banks to the Company for the Management of Bank Claims and the provision of capital adequacy at a level comparable to that of the EU average are key measures to improve the financial conditions of the economy. The necessary funds for direct recapitalisation of banks are estimated at EUR 900 million this year. In addition to the EUR 420 million recapitalisations already made, the total estimated recapitalisations in 2013 represent a single increase in the country's deficit by 3.7% of gross domestic product, which would have remained at the level of the previous year without recapitalisation. For the purchase of bad claims, the issue of State guarantee company bonds is envisaged, with the entire projected amount of guarantees set at up to EUR 4 billion, increasing the country's debt by up to 11.4% of GDP once again, which is decreasing over the coming years, in line with the dynamics of divestment or liquidation of acquired assets. This will bring the debt to its peak, but then it will fall again with the goal of stabilisation below 55% of GDP. The percentage of poor claims will decrease from 24.6% to 8.8% in our three largest banks, and on average from 16.9% to 10.4%. In parallel with measures to strengthen the stability of the banking sector, corporate debt and restructuring will be carried out. A systematic approach to corporate deleveraging will be based on three elements. Firstly, the improvements in the bankruptcy framework, the legislative framework for the financial restructuring of companies and the new out-of-court procedure on the extension of companies. Secondly, on selective measures through the Management and State Society to support individual companies with a successful business model and economic eligibility. Thirdly, measures will be implemented to improve the management of state-owned enterprises in the provision of fresh capital by the private sector through privatisation procedures and, in addition, measures will be implemented to improve the management of state-owned enterprises and some specific privatisation procedures will be initiated before summer. The management of the entire property is already arranged in one place, at the moment it is the Court and after conversion it will be the Slovenian State holding company. The law has already been supplemented by ensuring greater transparency and prudence of business, namely that the Court of Auditors has the possibility of overseeing the operation of the Slovenian State holding company and its subsidiaries. The country's investment management strategy will be ready by the end of 2013 and will clearly identify what investments of a strategic nature are for our country and what investments will be devoted to privatisation. However, since it takes more than 50 days to prepare a good asset management strategy, if it is to be prepared in a good way, we have decided to sell individual investments from the country. With regard to the sale of the property of the country, we will pursue two objectives: the search for strategic partners and appropriate purchases. We are certainly not for the sale of our property, and we are not going to go to it, that is our promise, and we will stick to it. Slovenia must show that it is open to foreign investment, so we have gradually moved on. The list of companies proposed for sale has already been published, so I will not list them again today. Let me repeat, our goal in selling or privatising is to find strategic partners and to buy and sell state property in no way. In particular, I would like to mention the guarantee scheme for small and medium-sized enterprises to be implemented through the SID of the bank. The projected quota for the new guarantee scheme will be between EUR 500 million and EUR billion. In terms of complementing measures to improve access to finance, the purpose of credits will be possible in general, including the financing of operating capital. An important measure that can help SMEs very quickly. We cannot talk about consolidating public finances or their permanent structural balance unless we take both the spending and the revenue sides into account. That is our view, and so are the measures that will lead us to balance our public finances. Those who speak and say that the measures relate only to the expenditure side, speak and speak to the mind and documents, or have not looked at or have not. Before I move to action, I think it is right to recall once again the catastrophic budget left to us by the previous government – 1.8 billion budget deficits, 150 million pension gaps, non-constitutional measures, regress for public servants and pensions, a hole in interest, a hole in payments to the European budget. The planned revenues amount to more than EUR 400 million. Very poor legacy, 1.8 billion or 5% of GDP deficit. To those who have been preparing this budget, I propose that you look at the implementation of the budget in the first five months, this is their mirror, and acknowledge the great mistake they have made and the critics first commit to themselves. On the expenditure side, measures to limit the mass of salaries in the public sector, pensions and social transfers will continue. Throughout the programming period, the government will implement a policy of reducing the number of employees by a percentage per year and other permanent organisational and programme changes with positive effects on public financial expenditure. The fact is that the Public Finance Balance Act, which was in force last year, also brought savings in 2013 and 2014, amounting to around €320 million. We were able to agree on an additional reduction in wages. Unfortunately, the previous government in this area has done nothing by the end of March, so we have lost five months. All wage measures will enter into force on 1 June. We are still severely restricting employment in the public sector, and the Government will prepare employment policies in the public and public administrations as soon as possible, and services will certainly need to be strengthened in some segments, such as inspections. Restrictions also remain in the area of pensions and social transfers, where no coordination is envisaged. We will also further limit spending on goods and services expenditure. The measures on the expenditure side of the budget certainly are, and those who say that it is not enough to take a closer look at both documents and quickly make it clear to them that measures are balanced on the revenue and expenditure sides of the budget at this point. On the revenue side, the Government will give primary attention to measures aimed at increasing the efficiency of collecting public benefits and reducing the volume of the grey economy. With regard to the new tax burdens, measures will be put in place which will have as little negative impact on economic growth as possible. Among them is the most important change in the VAT rate planned since 1 July 2013 in terms of public financial effects. In addition, changes in the real estate tax system are envisaged as of 1 January 2014, and the reduction in the corporate income tax rate will also be halted at 17 %, which will be applied with effect from the beginning of 2014. If I stop for a little while while I raise my VAT. It is clear to us that raising taxes cannot in any way have a positive impact on economic growth, but also radical spending cuts cannot have a positive impact on economic growth and negative economic growth shows exactly this year. Exporters who are the driving force of our economy will not feel a VAT hike because of the system of accounting. This is the main reason for our decision. In addition, my fellow Members, I would like to remind you that this is a measure which you have already enacted and would have come into force next year, that is a fact. However, since there has been a lot of talk about taxes in recent days, let me briefly tell you the comparison of Slovenia with the average of the European Union and with individual countries. In fact, in a rare segment, we deviate from the EU average by looking at tax burdens. Labour taxation; the average of the European Union is 35.8%, Slovenia is 35.2% below the European average, which is 98.2% of the European average. Austria, which we like to take as a model, has 40.8% of its work. Tax on profit; the EU average is 23.5%, Slovenia is 17% away from the European average, to 72.3% of the EU average. Austria, which we like to compare with, has this rate of 25%. The value added tax; the EU average is 21.3%, and we will also stay very close to the European Union average by raising VAT rates. The overall share of taxes in GDP also shows that Slovenia is by no means departing from the European average, as it wishes to show several times. The European average share of gross domestic product taxes is 38.8%, Slovenia is 37.2% below the European average and Austria is 42% above the European Union average. In short, our tax rates and the total share of taxes in GDP are below the European average. A comparison of income, expenditure, deficit and debt also shows that in this part of Slovenia is virtually no different from the European average. I don't know why some people always want to compare us with the Baltic countries, where there is a low share of taxes as well as the level of the social state. Our goal should be to compare with the better of us, with Scandinavian countries, for example. The share of taxes in GDP in Denmark is 47.7% and in Sweden 44.3%. On the other hand, the level of public financial expenditure far exceeds Slovenia and in Sweden is 52% of GDP and in Denmark is 59.6%. Have you ever heard of these countries going bankrupt? No, no, no. Their public finances are in good condition, they have no practical deficits. The debt in Sweden is 38.2% and in Denmark 45.8% of GDP. In recent weeks, we have been recalculating and comparing the effects of individual measures. A lot of calculations have been made. We have been given a lot of criticism to think differently every day. It wasn't like that. There were more solutions on the table, and in the end we chose what we thought was the least bad. I am aware that any increase in taxes on one side or a reduction in wages on the other side of the affected people. Unfortunately, we are at a time when we cannot choose between good solutions. They're getting worse. But the fundamental difference is between those measures that, despite the painful current effects, promise to heal and those that only make things worse by delaying proper therapy. The best among the bad is therefore the solution that improves the situation in the long run. This is no different from Germany, France, Denmark, or the United Kingdom — economic recovery. Your Honor! There is no time for rhetorical figures, even less empty promises. I see the responsibility of the Government and the entire political class in these difficult situations in some simple commitments. For one thing, by our example, by our own work and by our efforts, we show how serious the situation is. Secondly, by identifying the best solutions, regardless of who proposes them, we show that we are in the common good and public interest. And thirdly, to pursue only actions and actions that have a real chance of success. Serious and realistic solutions – this is our way out of the crisis. I'm willing to defend this in front of people. We do what we do not do because of Europe or its demands, but because of ourselves. Therefore, sometimes it will have to be said out loud that some proposal is unrealistic, that some solution is unrealistic, or even that one responsible is not a factor in the solution, but part of the problem. It will not come out of the crisis if, at the same time, we welcome the ever-increasing small and low-level crisis. I see my role and responsibility in not losing sight of the long-term horizon of Slovenian society; the society of consensus, prosperity, a healthy environment and healthy human relations. Which of the yearbooks we refer to today as projections, when the trend turns out to be better, may seem far away and barely reachable. But it is true that during these coming years that Slovenia 2020 is not a utopian projection, but a very tangible future, to which concrete steps lead. We make one every day. And only from our common collective prudence, caution, and, yes, even decency depends on what future we will live in. Thank you for your attention, help and trust. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-35.ana.u3	Thank you, mag. Alenki Bratusek, President of the Government. Given that we still have some time at our disposal, I think I would like to speak with the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance. I give the word "magic." Matthew Vraničar, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-35.ana.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The Stability Programme and the National Reform Programme are key documents to be submitted by the Member States of the European Union to the European Commission regarding the implementation of economic governance measures as set out in the so-called European Semester. Allow me once again to draw attention to the key actions and starting points that they are preparing or at which both documents are built and will direct both the work of the Government and to a large extent the work of Parliament in the coming months. The Stability Programme shows the programme of measures to be implemented by Slovenia in order to meet the commitments it has made with regard to the adoption of the recommendation to address the excessive public financial deficit. This recommendation was adopted in November 2009. Taking into account the recommendation and the starting points of the Council's recommendations on the 2010 broad economic policy guidelines of the Member States of the European Union, the stability programme focuses mainly on the policy of fiscal consolidation and the long-term sustainability of public finances. Such a stability programme includes measures to reduce the deficit below 3 % of GDP by 2014, followed by a further reduction of the deficit until a permanent structural balance of public finances is achieved, in line with the preventive work of the Stability and Growth Pact and the International Stability, Coordination and Management Treaty in the Economic and Monetary Union. The government estimates that this objective can be achieved by 2017. The second objective of fiscal policy in the programming period is to stabilise the country's debt below 55% of gross social product. On the other hand, the National Reform Programme was initially set up as a medium-term government plan on priority actions and projects aimed at meeting the objectives of the Europe 2020 strategy and later developed into a central part of the European Semester and together with the Stability Programme is the basis for making specific recommendations to the Member States drawn up by the European Commission at the end of the semester and endorsed by the European Council. This year's update of the Stability Programme and the 2013 and 2014 National Reform Programme are particularly important as they also respond to the findings of the in-depth analysis published by the European Commission in mid-April, which identifies the existence of macroeconomic imbalances for Slovenia. The starting points of both documents have already been presented by the President, so I will not repeat them and will focus on measures. However, it must be reiterated that Slovenia needs to address shortcomings and imbalances in order to restore economic growth, which are manageable and can be addressed through the right combination and timing of action. Eliminating imbalances will allow conditions for restoring economic growth and job creation. Some reforms, such as pension and labour market reform, have already been made, others are under way or in preparation, and the third group includes those measures that still need to be implemented. The National Reform Programme presents the three pillars of activities necessary for the stabilisation and long-term sustainable growth of Slovenia. These are changes in the decision-making process, in particular as regards referendum legislation and corporate governance, short-term measures to start up the economy, which include measures to rehabilitate banks, extend businesses, improve corporate governance of state assets and privatisation measures. These include measures to balance public finances, which I will talk more about below. The third set of measures, however, represents measures to improve competitiveness and long-term sustainable growth. The most urgent measures to be taken or to be taken immediately are short-term measures to start the economy. On the one hand, there are key activities to clean up bank balances, reduce corporate indebtedness, privatise and improve corporate governance. On the other hand, fiscal consolidation measures are key, namely to further reduce the structural deficit and stabilise the debt of the country below 55% of GDP. If I focus first on bank recovery measures. In this area, the so-called bad bank is an institutional framework that also allows business to be remunerated. In this area, the Government is building on what has already been prepared and the first most important measures in this area are aimed at allowing for the first transfer of claims to the Bank's Claims Management Company before summer. While the government estimates that certain amendments will be needed in the law itself, we plan them in the second half of this year. Two legislative projects are key in the area of corporate deleveraging. You have already opened a debate on a proposal for a law, a amendment to the Financial Restructuring Act and insolvency proceedings in the National Assembly. Second, the Act on Systemic Disposal of Enterprises, the Government is preparing. In addition to these legislative changes, specific cases of business over-indebtedness are ongoing, some mentioned by the President. As has already been said, the fiscal consolidation measures are presented in more detail in the stability programme. In order to stabilise public finances, Slovenia needs immediate and lasting, I stress lasting measures of around €1 billion. It is the intention of the Government to focus measures to stabilise public finances to the maximum extent possible on the public treasury spending side and approximately a third of the financial impact should be ensured by measures on the revenue side of public treasury. In selecting a set of possible measures, the Government was led by the following starting points: the measures must be of a sustainable nature to the greatest extent possible; they must be such as to fairly share the burden of consolidation; they must have as little negative impact on economic growth as possible and must be such that they can be implemented as soon as possible and with as few additional administrative burdens as possible. In order to achieve the planned effects, measures must be taken by summer, no later than 15 July this year, no matter when they actually take effect. Individual measures, especially on the spending side, must be taken earlier, preferably this month. The measures on the public treasury spending side relate mainly to rationalisation in the public sector, the limitation of wage funds, the limits on the amount of funds provided for pensions and social transfers, and so on. On the income side, the key measures are the proposal to recast the real estate taxation system and the proposal to increase the general value added tax rate by 2% or a reduced rate by 1%. On the revenue side, measures will be put in place to strengthen the revenues of the health treasury and other measures with a slightly minor additional fiscal impact. These measures, which are also put forward in the stability programme, are prepared for the consolidation of public finances at the total level that is required by the Government of Slovenia, i.e. EUR 1 billion. However, the Government considers that the structure of the measures is not yet the most appropriate. There are still many measures, mainly on the part of public financial expenditure of a temporary nature, but only a good half of them are permanent. Furthermore, there is little effort on the part of expenditure made and we are planning a follow-up. Taking these findings into account, the Government will continue discussions in the coming months to allow for additional permanent measures on the spending side of public treasury. If an agreement on these measures is not reached by the end of the year, in addition to all the above-mentioned tax measures, it will have to be taken after an additional measure, a progressive crisis tax on the income of natural persons. The proposed measures will also be supported by measures aimed at institutionalising public finances, including efforts to implement the fiscal rule in the Slovenian legal order, the reform of the Public Finance Act and the related Accounting Act, and institutional reform of the DURS and CURS, or their merger into the Single Financial Administration of Slovenia, which would increase efficiency in collecting public benefits and strengthen the fight against tax fraud and evasion, which the Government also intends to pay particular attention to. Your Honor! In this presentation, we focus on the key actions that Slovenia must take by mid-July 2013 or by the end of this year. We must not forget, however, that the National Reform Programme refers to two more topics. It presents a report on the implementation of the European Commission's 2012 specific recommendations, seven such recommendations and reports on progress on each of them. At the same time, the programme is a report and a further commitment to action for the long-term objectives of the Europe 2020 strategy. The report on actions and forecasts for further action on the 2020 strategy is included in chapter 6 of the National Reform Programme. This is about action in the field of investment in research and development, in education, in climate and energy policy and in the labour market and social security. In these objectives and the measures announced, it should be stressed that the greatest gap between the objectives and the actual situation in the area of social security and social inclusion, where the consequences of the crisis are most evident. Particular attention will have to be paid to this issue on the basis of the already adopted National Social Protection Programme by 2020. Your Honor! With the Stability Programme and the National Reform Programme, we have entrusted ourselves with many difficult and extensive tasks to be carried out in a relatively short time. We take full responsibility for the implementation tasks of the Government and the Ministry, and in legislative projects we share this responsibility with you, with Parliament. And I hope and wish that we will succeed in individual legislative projects that I have announced in this presentation, or that you can understand them from written material, despite the time constraints, we will be able to carry out a qualitative and constructive debate and make the right decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-35.ana.u5	Thank you, mag. Mateji Vraničar to complement the Government report on the Stability Programme and the National Reform Programme. This presents a report prepared by the Government for the National Assembly and, on the basis of the conclusion that there is no interest in supplementing this report, I also conclude the 35th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. However, I ask you to take all the materials with you, as a public presentation of the opinions will begin at 11 a.m. in this Chamber. Thank you for participating and seeing me at the next session.
