ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e76	The representative Guri Melby, who has been licensed, has once again taken his seat. From the Prime Minister's office there is the following letter to Stortinget, dated 22 January 2019: ‘Amendments by Governments and State Secretaries State Council was held at Oslo Castle on 22 January 2019 at 2.30 p.m. 1100 under the direction of His Majesty the King. The following decision was adopted: Government councils Linda Cathrine Hofstad Helleland and Bård André Hoksrud are pardoned. Councillor Trine Skei Grande takes over the rule of equality and discrimination issues in the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality. Parliamentary representative Olug Vervik Bollestad is appointed to the Council of State and takes over from the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. Nikolai Eivindsøn Astrup takes over the management of ICT policy in the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation. In addition, he takes over the management of the work on electronic communications in the Ministry of Transport and the management of ICT-related tasks in the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries. State Secretary Ingvil Smines Tybring-Gjedde is appointed to the Council of State and takes over from the work of social and ICT security and preparedness in the Ministry of Justice and Defence. She also takes over the board of the Polar Department. In addition, she assumes responsibility for the Security Act and for the administrative responsibility of the National Security Authority of the Ministry of Defence. Former Financial Agency Dag Inge Ulstein is appointed as State Council and takes over the Board of Directors of Development in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. He is authorised to exercise the specific functions of international law conferred on the Minister of Foreign Affairs, including the signature of documents of international law and the drawing up of signatures, in the absence of the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Representatives of Storting Kjell Ingolf Ropstad are appointed to the Council of State and are appointed to the Board of Directors of the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality, with the exception of the work on equality and discrimination. He also takes over the board of religious and life views in the Ministry of Culture. State Secretarys Cecilie Brein-Karlsen, Svein Flätten, Helge Fossum, Knut Morten Johansen and Ingvil Smines Tybring-Gjedde are dismissed from office. State Secretary Morten Bakke is hereby dismissed from office with effect from 25 January 2019. State Secretary Kristin Holm Jensen is dismissed from office with effect from 8 February 2019. State Secretary Brage Baklien is pardoned as State Secretary to the State Council of Jon Georg Dale in the Ministry of Transport and is re-appointed State Secretary to the State Council of Siv Jensen in the Ministry of Finance. State Secretary Paul Chaffey is pardoned as Secretary of State of the Council of State Monica Mæland in the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation and is re-appointed Secretary of State of the Council of State Nikolai Eivindssøn Astrup in the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation. Secretary of State Jens Frølich Holte is pardoned as Secretary of State for Minister of Development Nikolai Eivindsson Astrup and is re-appointed State Secretary for Foreign Minister Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. State Secretary Rikard Gaarder Knutsen is pardoned as Secretary of State for the Council of State Bård André Hoksrud in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and is re-appointed Secretary of State for the Council of State Kjell-Børge Freiberg in the Ministry of Oil and Energy. State Secretary Tom Erlend Schaug is appointed as Secretary of State at the 50 per cent position of the State Council Linda Cathrine Hofstad Helleland in the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality and as Secretary of State at the 50 per cent position of the State Council Jan Tore Sanner in the Ministry of Knowledge and is re-appointed as State Secretary at the Department of State Council Jan Tore Sanner in the Ministry of Knowledge. State Secretary Toril Charlotte Ulleberg Reynolds is pardoned as Secretary of State of the Council of State Kjell-Børge Freiberg in the Ministry of Oil and Energy and is re-appointed State Secretary of the Council of State Ingvil Smines Tybring-Gjedde in the Ministry of Justice and Defence. Head of State Allan Ellingsen is appointed State Secretary to the State Council, Jon Georg Dale, Ministry of Transport. Secretary Espen Espeset is appointed Secretary of State for Prime Minister Erna Solberg. Senior Advisor Julian Thomas Farner-Calvert is appointed State Secretary for State Council Kjell Ingolf Ropstad in the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality. Political adviser Jorunn Hallaråker is appointed State Secretary for State Council Kjell Ingolf Ropstad in the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality. Political adviser Julie Kristine Kordal is appointed State Secretary for Olug Vervik Bollestad in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. County Council Widar Skogan is appointed State Secretary for Olug Vervik Bollestad in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. Advocate Hans Olav Syversen is hereby appointed Secretary of State for Prime Minister Erna Solberg. Mr Oluf Ulseth is appointed Secretary of State for Prime Minister Erna Solberg. Senior Adviser Sverre Vatnar is appointed State Secretary for State Council Siv Jensen in the Ministry of Finance. The Executive Director of Thorleif Fluer Vikre is appointed State Secretary for the State Council of Monica Mæland in the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation with operational status from 1 February 2019. The ranking of the members of the Government shall be determined in accordance with the proposals submitted. All the amendments made above shall be made with effect from 22 January 2019 at the latest. 14.00, unless specifically mentioned otherwise.» The President proposed that the referenced letter be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. National Councils shall entail the following changes in the composition of the Grand Duchy: The former members of the government, Linda C. Hofstad Helleland and Bård Hoksrud, have taken the seat of representatives. The first alternates of the Aust-Agder counties and Rogaland counties, Jorunn Gleditsch Lossius and Geir Sigbjørn Tuskedal respectively, have taken the seat of representatives of the time, Kjell Ingolf Ropstad and Olug V. Bollestad are members of the Government. A number of permit applications are available: by the Socialist Left Party Group on sick leave for the representative Petter Eide from 29 January onwards and until further notice by the Group of the Progressive Alliance on sick leave for the representative of Kari Kjønaas Kjos from 29 January onwards and until further notice from the Workers' Group on sick leave for the representative of Hadia Tajik as from 29 January until further notice by the Group of the Right on welfare leave for the representative Tage Pettersen Tuesday 29 January by the Workers' Party's Group on the Permit of the Representative, Martin Kolberg, on Tuesday 29 January, for participation as a member of the Nordic Council in Helsinki On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Akershus County: Liv Gustavsen For the Province of Buskerud: Anne Sandum For Oslo: Olivia Corso Salles For the Province of Rogaland: Julia Wong For Eastfold County: Monica Carmen Gåsvatn
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e246	Liv Gustavsen, Anne Sandum, Olivia Corso Salles, Julia Wong and Monica Carmen Gåsvatn are present and will take the seat. The representative of Une Bastholm will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e253	This is probably a good day to have a proposal for a representative on marine protection in the exclusive economic zone.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e258	The representative of the Bears Moxnes will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e263	I would like to promote a proposal on the export of Norwegian military material to war zones.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e268	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e284	On 11 September 2017, the parties Right, Advance Party, Left and Christian People's Party reached a majority in Stortinget. On that basis, the government continued its post-election work. One year ago, and after negotiations on Jeløya, the Left became part of the government. The Christian People's Party held an extraordinary national meeting on 2 November 2018. At the national meeting, the party first decided to apply for the possibility of entering today’s government. Experiments were carried out and then government negotiations between the four parties Right, the Progress Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party. The negotiations led to the Granavolden platform. Governing bodies of the four parties joined the political platform on 17 January, and the Christian People's Party became part of the government on 22 January. The government will base the Granavolden platform on its further work. The government's political platform is based on values shared by the four government parties. In particular, it is expressed in the opinion that: a good society must be built from below Good child rearing conditions are best created by safe families who have the freedom to find the best solutions for them safe jobs are created by companies that make room to create, and entrepreneurs who are allowed to succeed and to fail the important communities that make sense, trust and belonging, are equally common in families, sports, non-profit institutions serving households, religious and living communities and in the workplace, that communities are more than local and regional authorities; good communities are created when decisions are taken closest to those they concern The goal of the government is for people to live free and independent lives. People who show trust will also take responsibility – for themselves, for their neighbors and for their fellow humans. The government will work for a society with opportunities for all – a fair society where abilities and efforts count more than background and origin. The government's policy is based on the values that our Christian and humanist heritage and tradition have given us. It's about human dignity, close love, and trustworthiness, and about ideals like equality, freedom, responsibility for itself and for each other and respect for nature. The Government will work for a free society, democracy and the rule of law characterised by working communities and common values and institutions such as legal certainty, privacy, freedom of expression, trust, free media, market economy, ownership and voluntary activities. The government will protect the values and institutions that bear our society. The government will work to ensure that the world's nations join forces to meet the major challenges of our time: combating poverty, promoting peace and security and solving major climate and environmental challenges. Norway shall take its international responsibility seriously and be a driver of freer trade, human rights, international legal order and sustainable marine economy and participate in the achievement of the global sustainability objectives. The Government will support international cooperation, in particular through NATO, the EEA and the United Nations. The government will secure Norway for the future and create a sustainable welfare society. A sustainable welfare society must be sustainable both economically, environmentally and socially. The government will create an economically sustainable welfare society by transforming the Norwegian economy, creating growth and more jobs, building infrastructure across the country, promoting the green shift and ensuring that the Norwegian economy gets more weight. An even more entrepreneurial policy is needed for private enterprises to create new jobs that can provide safe incomes and finance welfare in the future. In particular, the framework for entrepreneurs and small and medium-sized enterprises should be improved. Form fields and bureaucracy shall be reduced and legislation simplified. The economic instruments and the tax system shall be as efficient as possible to stimulate value creation, conversion and innovation. The government is concerned that Norway should seize the opportunities offered by new technologies, while at the same time addressing the challenges. Our goal is to become the world's best country to use digital solutions to simplify people's everyday lives, create new jobs and solve the problems more effectively. Good infrastructure makes living and creating values easier, not least in the districts. Roads, railways, bridges and tunnels connect new regions. Individuals get more work opportunities and businesses faster transport of goods out of the world. The government will continue the strong commitment we have to transport and communication across the country. The four government parties have worked together for a long time to reform the transport sector. It has produced good results. It is now time to take new steps to get a more efficient and modern infrastructure. The government will therefore expand the portfolio of New Vei. Although state appropriations are record high and the share of tolls has fallen, the high rate of expansion means that the total cost of tolls for traders and residents is increasing. Some are hit harder than others. The government will therefore reduce the share of tolls in new road projects in new national transport plans, introduce a reduction in toll costs and strengthen the toll reduction scheme. The government will lower the overall level of taxation and taxation. A good tax system stimulates work and investment in Norwegian jobs. The government will therefore continue its efforts to facilitate taxes on wealth on working capital and to combat the erosion of the tax base, so that the rates can be kept low for all. The VAT system shall be reviewed with a view to simplification. The government will also continue to reduce property taxes. Knowledge and competence will be essential to ensure a sustainable welfare society. It is therefore gratifying to see that the results at school point in the right direction. Multiple completions, multiple learning places, and fewer falls outside. The government's goal is for all children and young people to experience learning and mastering at school. Students must be prepared for the technological and international working life of the future. This is why the government will continue to invest in continuing education for teachers, at an early stage and in strengthening real-life education in middle and English in secondary schools. The government will also continue its professional career. More and more people want to take higher education. This is good for Norway, and it is good for the individual, and the government will facilitate the possibility for more people. Through the policy of competence, the government will help to provide the people with the knowledge and skills they need in order to meet new demands for change and to get new jobs when working life is changing. The goal is a working life where no one goes out to date. Knowledge, research and innovation are the basis for new jobs with high value creation. In order to develop a sustainable welfare society and a competitive business, the government will have a long-term commitment to research. Over time, public research efforts shall increase beyond 1 pst. of GDP at a conversion stage. We need to focus on research and development where we have special advantages and needs, such as enabling technologies. The government's aim is for everyone to have equal opportunities and freedom to make their own choices. Therefore, the government will strengthen equality in society and facilitate the possibility for all to combine family and work life. Gender-divided educational choices contribute to the maintenance of a gender-divided labour market. The government will, among other things, present a strategy to contribute to a more equal education and labour market. A sustainable welfare society will provide room for addressing challenges in Norwegian society. The government's ambition is to create patients' healthcare. Each patient shall experience respect and openness and avoid unnecessary waiting time. No decisions about the patient should be made without the patient. Medical use of biotechnology shall be exploited for the benefit of people in a society where there is room for all. This shall be done with respect for human dignity, human rights and personal integrity and without discrimination on the basis of legacy facilities. The Government will facilitate increased research and further development of specialised environments of competence in genetic and biotechnology. The Government will not promote changes to the Biotechnology Act unless the four parties agree on this. The government will remove the opening for abortion of one or more healthy multiples, so-called foetal reduction, in a pregnancy before the limit of self-determined abortion. In addition, the government will not propose any changes to the abortion law. The Government shall implement a quality reform for the elderly, Life throughout their lives. The reform shall facilitate safe, dignified and sustainable care for the elderly, based on individual needs and wishes. You have to feel confident that you will get good help and that it will be arranged for older people to master their lives longer. A support apparatus shall be established for municipalities to contribute to adapting the reform to local needs. Freedom of choice is an important value. As a result, the government will contribute to the greater contribution of municipalities to the free choice of home services. The government will implement an equivalency reform to make it easier for families with children with special needs. We will ensure equal opportunities for personal development, participation and life for all. Parents waiting for children with special needs shall be given a statutory right to the coordinator already during pregnancy, including the right to complete guidance and organisation. We need to improve the BPA system and increase the number of VTA sites to ensure that even more people are able to be included in the labour market and society at large. We also need to create an environmentally sustainable welfare society. The government’s political platform involves even higher ambitions for Norwegian climate policy. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change recently showed that 2 degrees of global warming significantly increases the risk of serious consequences for humans compared to 1.5 degrees. Now the government will strengthen its targets so that Norway does our part to avoid dangerous climate change. The ambitions of other countries in climate policy are of great importance to Norway’s ability to achieve our objectives. When a major player such as the EU strengthens its objectives, it triggers more technology development and transformation in business. The Government will work towards an overall EU ambition level of 55 p.m. and report a reinforced Norwegian climate target in line with EU ambitions. Norway’s non-quota emissions shall be reduced by at least 45 pst. compared with 2005. The government aims to reduce this through domestic measures and plans to do so. If strictly necessary, the flexibility of the EU framework can be used. The transition to a low-carbon society will require a lot of us. We have set more offensive targets than many other European countries, although Norway has fewer emissions that can be cut easily. At the same time, we must seize the possibilities that are now in the green shift. Our new working life must be green, smart and innovative. In order to strengthen opportunities, more attention needs to be paid to new green technologies, polluter pays, and we need to develop zero-emission solutions markets. When the Norwegian economy becomes more vulnerable, we also reduce the economic climate risk of Norway. A sustainable welfare society must also have social sustainability. We need to take care of key qualities in Norwegian society: high trust between people, small differences, high employment opportunities and opportunities for everyone. Outdoors help people lose opportunities to create their own, good life. A good school and knowledge is the most important thing to create opportunities for everyone. At the same time, the government's inclusion skills shall contribute to giving more people who are currently outside the scope of work experience. In particular, it is important to ensure that all children grow up with good opportunities to develop and to exploit their abilities and talents. The government will fight poverty, primarily by qualifying more people for work and by including more people in the labour market. Well-functioning families provide security and belonging and create room for development. The government will implement a child reform, the main objective of which is to provide equal opportunities for all children and to strengthen the economy of low-income families. Children growing up in low-income families must be guaranteed the same opportunities to play with, learn from and develop with other children. The government's commitment to more social payment schemes in kindergarten has made a good contribution to this. In the future, the government will make it easier for more people to participate in the SFO, increase the level of child protection and establish a leisure card, allowing more people to participate in leisure activities. It will help to combat exclusion and give more children the opportunity to participate in major Community arenas in society. The increase in the number of children growing up in poor families has been linked to high immigration since the turn of the century. Immigration into Norway has been significantly reduced in recent years, but irregular migration is very little predictable and is a major challenge. We need a high level of readiness for fast shifts. The government will pursue a restrictive, legal and responsible immigration policy. In order to avoid abuse of the asylum institution, the government will introduce quarantine periods for refugees travelling to their country of origin without agreement with the Norwegian authorities. The government will also promote for the Stortinget a subsidiary protection preparedness system that can be implemented rapidly by significant changes in the arrivals of asylum. The Government will establish a one-off solution for older, unreturnable asylum seekers who have lived in Norway for more than 16 years and strengthen legal certainty for converts in the handling of asylum cases. The social sustainability of our society is closely linked to our ability to include and integrate those who have been legally resident in Norway. Through inclusion, we will ensure that immigrants become part of small and large communities in our society. The government will reform the qualification systems to ensure that immigrants have the skills they themselves and the modern Norwegian working life need. Integration requires considerable efforts by individuals to learn a new language, perhaps a new profession, and to adapt to the Norwegian society. At the same time, it requires the ability and will of everyday integration from all of us. Through a renewed and effective integration policy, we will promote increased participation in social and labour life. A good district policy shall make it possible to live, work and operate an active business in both cities, agglomerations and districts. The government will facilitate living communities and growth throughout the country. It shall take place, inter alia, through: facilitating increased broadband deployment and enabling all citizens to access the Internet at home. Work on better roads in the districts and on the railways shall continue. The government will pursue an agricultural policy that will facilitate viable and forward-looking agriculture across the country. The plan for the relocation of State jobs shall be followed up. The local economy has been good in recent years, and the government will continue to work for a good and predictable financial framework, with particular emphasis on the core tasks of the municipalities. Security in everyday life is a central part of the Norwegian welfare society. It's both about something as simple as moving in the center of the municipality is going to be felt as safe for everyone, and about having a credible defense of our country. Security is a prerequisite for freedom and makes more people dare to bet and take the leaps that bring our society forward. The government will strengthen both the prevention and prosecution of criminal offences. Crime is constantly changing. A reformed police force will be better equipped to combat the new crime that is happening online, and to address the biggest and most complicated issues, which often also have the most vulnerable victims. The emergence of criminal gangs in cities, linked to international crime, must be actively combated at an early stage before the problems become unmanageable. Better prevention, increased policing against the backers and evaluation of new instruments will be important in the future. The aim is to ensure the everyday safety of all parts of our cities and to prevent young people from being recruited and exploited. Our society is becoming increasingly dependent on digital solutions. Digital solutions make everyday life easier and help make resources more efficient. At the same time, digitisation makes us vulnerable in new ways. Particular attention must be paid to ICT security work, particularly in the context of the follow-up to new safety laws. Norway's security and freedom rests on a credible defence and commitment to international cooperation. The Government will therefore continue to strengthen its operational capability in defence in the last years. In line with the agreement of the NATO Summit in Cardiff in 2014, the government will aim at Norway moving further towards the 2-percentile. NATO solidarity is essential for Norway’s safety. The government will therefore be a credible partner and contributor in NATO. The government will work to combat poverty and promote economic development and well-being in developing countries. The policy shall support the development countries' objectives of becoming independent of assistance. The government will contribute to achieving the global sustainability targets by 2030. The government will highlight four cross-cutting considerations in development policy: anti-corruption, the environment, equality and human rights. The government will strengthen efforts for global health, in particular in vaccination, mother and child health, sexual and reproductive health and rights. The emphasis on education shall continue, with a particular focus on the education of the girls. The government will place increasing emphasis on climate adaptation and on targeted and cost-effective climate action, such as the development of renewable energy. Norway shall continue to take an international lead in clean and productive seas. Poverty orientation in development cooperation needs to be strengthened, and the management of development policy needs to be reformed to ensure the best possible results of the assistance we provide. The government's objective is that Norwegian assistance should be unbound, efficient and results-oriented. In recent decades, millions of people have been working out poverty through international trade and the emergence of a market economy. Now global trade is under pressure and protectionism on the rise. That gives cause for concern. Norway shall be a driver of freer trade, human rights and an international legal order. The United Kingdom’s decision to withdraw from the EU will also have consequences for Norway. The main tasks of the government are to ensure continued functioning of the EEA and, at the same time, to continue our close and good cooperation with the United Kingdom. There is considerable uncertainty as to what kind of cooperation the United Kingdom will have with EU and EEA countries, both in the short and long term. Norway continues to be best served by the United Kingdom finding a solution to ensure orderly withdrawal from the EU and the EEA. However, it cannot be excluded that the United Kingdom is leaving the EU without an agreement. Norway needs to be well prepared for different outcomes of the process in order to limit the disadvantages to its population and business as far as possible. Norway has concluded an agreement to protect citizens’ rights in the event of an orderly withdrawal. There is also close agreement on mechanisms to minimise adverse effects in other key areas in the case of the United Kingdom leaving the EU without an agreement, such as citizens' rights, trade in goods, air and road transport. Close international cooperation is essential in order to safeguard Norway’s interests in a number of areas. Among the most important are the efforts to combat international terrorism. The government has close judicial cooperation with the EU and other international organisations on cross-border crime, trafficking in human beings and terrorism. When the Christian People's Party became part of the government, Norway was again given a majority government. The government wants to contribute to good debates in the Grand Duchy in the coming years as well as to the fact that the Grand Duchy will continue to be a living arena for policy development. The government will continue to take initiatives for broad solutions in matters where it is natural. Norway is a country with great potential. The generations before us have created a society of which we are all proud through hard work, openness to the world around us and the ability to cooperate. The decades ahead of us will face challenges other than the decades we've been behind. If we are to take care of the society in which we are all happy, we must build on our strengths, as well as our ability to find new solutions. The government takes note of this work on progress and humility. I want to invite the Stortinget to constructive cooperation to create a sustainable welfare society.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e455	The Government’s statement is proposed for consideration in a subsequent meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e473	I would like to start by thanking the members of the Committee for their good cooperation. The draft Constitution we have before us is a proposal to change the state form from monarchy to republic. The proposal is supported by Kirsti Bergstø, Snorre Serigstad Valen, Iselin Nybø, Sveinung Rotevatn, Jette F. Christensen, Truls Wickholm and Heidi Nordby Lunde. This is not the first time the Stortinget deals with constitutional proposals to introduce the Republic as a state form in Norway. They have been promoted and dealt with in the Storting several times, and each time the Storing has examined the proposal, a large majority have voted against it. It's not so strange, because the big-time representatives are reflecting the public opinion on this issue. There is not exactly a call in the population for a change of state form in Norway. Opinion polls that have been carried out in recent years show that the monarchy has a broad population outreach. In a study conducted by TNS Gallup in 2016, it was found that 67,1 pst. would select the monarchy, while 32.9 pst. would select the Republic. So there's no sign that there's going to be a change in the position that the Storting has taken on this question in the past. I also want to remind you that the monarchy as a state has more than a thousand-year tradition in Norway. In the context of the Union’s resolution in 1905, a referendum was held on Norway’s continued sovereignty. Prince Carl – then – wanted to know if the people wanted him as king in Norway, and we know the result. A clear majority wanted the proposed king, Prince Carl, named King Haakon VII, as head of state in Norway. Right is a party that is concerned with good traditions and by taking care of what works. The monarchy in Norway, with the device we have on it, works. I can also see that there are many fundamental objections to such a form of state today, but the measure is whether people think the form of state we have works. That's what the people think. The king and the monarchy have given the Norwegian people a stable and predictable governance system with which people are satisfied. On this basis, the members of the Committee from the Right and the Progressive Party do not support the constitutional proposal of the representatives of Kirsti Bergstø, Snorre Serigstad Valen, Iselin Nybø, Sveinung Rotevatn, Jette F. Christensen, Truls Wickholm and Heidi Nordby Lunde to change the state form of the Republic.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e488	Thank you for that, President! It is particularly appropriate to start this article by saying just that – a title I wish we used more often here in the country. But this is a question that's about far more than titles. The point we are now discussing is about principles. It is about a principle that appears to be both reasonable and generally accepted, namely that power and positions should not be inherited, but given out of the will of the people through free elections. However, although it is both a reasonable and acceptable principle, this is not the case with Norway’s state head. Because although most people are happy in the royal house we now have, myself included, there are few or no good principal arguments to keep this state form. Inheriting power and positions is something that hangs again from a past that we all here are happy that we have left. And although the royal house does not have formal power, there is no doubt that it has informal power, even today. We live at a time when liberal democracy is said to be threatened. Especially different right-wing radicals and right-wing populistic flows have recently taken to the streets and also gained power in several countries. A new media reality has given us new challenges with fragmentation and networkedness, which prevent participation. Not least, ordinary people in many places have lost confidence in the political system. Many will agree with this situation description, and some may also use it to argue for the monarchy because, according to such a way of reasoning, the monarch is a so-called unifying figure, free of politics. On the contrary, I would say that the challenges facing democracy make the need to complete the democratisation of the country even more important. Extending our democracy to our foremost national symbol, our state head, would have been a powerful signal against the dark forces that threaten the rule of the people, a signal that we are on the offensive to constantly develop our democracy for the better. It is a historical suspense of this debate. We can draw the historical lines all the way back to the French revolution, when the Democrats stood to the left of the assembly and the King's supporters to the right. SV belongs to the work movement, in many ways the extension of the left side of that assembly. It's a proud tradition to constantly fight to expand democracy. We have fought for power and representation for ordinary workers in politics, with general voting rights, and also in working life and economics, through trade unionisation and labour governance. It has been and is still our goal. Democracy has evolved through the limitations of the King's power, through civil rights and into general voting rights. It's never been static, and it can't be now either. One argument that those who will continue this development even in terms of state form, meetings, is the 1905 referendum. However, as is also stated in the proposal we are discussing today, we have never had a referendum on state form in Norway, only a yes or a no that the Danish Prince Carl would become Norwegian King Haakon. At the same time, there was a referendum in which a very small proportion of the population could participate — not women and not the working class. This year it is 100 years since we introduced general voting rights in Norway for all women and men, regardless of class membership. Therefore, it is timely and very appropriate that 2019 be the year we are taking the next step in the democratisation of Norway: by adopting these democratic changes in the Constitution and by implementing a referendum to make Norway the Republic of Norway, where a yes will bring about changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e505	The President assumes that the representative will address the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e510	I will.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e515	The representative Freddy André Supreme Court has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e520	What made me – despite the fact that it was not planned – want to add some comments to the proposal was that the representative of the Supreme Court turned himself into a spokesperson for the working class. I think that might have been a little drowsy. But I would like to say that there are different points of view, and that the Labour Party as a party is behind us voting against the proposal. Nevertheless, the tradition believes that there are individual representatives in the Workers' Party who want to vote in favour. We have a long tradition for that. I agree that it is possible to raise fundamental discussions about whether we would have chosen the monarchy if we had chosen the state form today. But just the fact that we have this debate is an incredibly good example that we no longer have a monarchy in the form of what you can sometimes get the impression of: in the form of an exclusivity. No, on the contrary: the fact that we can have this debate, that is, that we, as magnificent representatives, can propose to replace the King, while the King cannot propose to replace either the Supreme Court or me, shows how strongly the democratic tradition and the People's Government stand in our model. Supreme Court says the King has informal power. No, the reality is that the King has a lot of formal power, but in reality, the political part of the power of the government we've just been presented with an extended copy of, here in the Stortinget. But I think there's reason to travel the discussion. And when I, for my part, am a pragmatic adherent to the fact that we continue with the kingdom that is therefore constitutional – where it is not the King who governs the law, but the lawmakers who decide what the King can do – it is based on the function of the royal house, and the respect they have earned. Because I want to stress that they too must earn the respect of the people. We have experienced national disasters in this country – of course during the war – and in the context of natural disasters, we have experienced the participation of the King and Queen that we now have. Not least, I constantly remember the king's commitment and participation after July 22, 2011 and the role he played in helping to gather a nation. But also more practical in previous functions, I have had the pleasure of being on foreign visits with both Kings and Crown Princes and have seen the value they actually have for us to get good political contacts, and the door opener function they have for Norwegian business. I want to attribute it to a practical meaning that makes me think it's a pragmatic conclusion that we shouldn't repair it that actually works. On that basis, and as long as we have a royal house that deserves the respect and support that they obviously have in the people, our conclusion is to go on with the state form we chose in 1905. But as I said, there are also some representatives in our party who choose to support the position of SVs and Oberstegård.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e537	The reason I took the floor was the introduction to Committee Leader Andersen, where he referred to various events in our modern history where the royal house has played an important role as a collector for the country. It's quite right, but it's not because it's a monarchy they got the collective role for Norway, it's because they've been given a collective position for the country in critical times. So that's the role they should have in the country in those kind of critical times. What is a fundamental discussion here is: should the position – as the only one we have in this country – be a purely hereditary position? The supreme authority of our society, the King, shall he be proclaimed by the fact that it is the genetics that determine who will have that position in our society? This is the discussion, not if they were good or not good in different types of situations, but that they are given it through inheritance – as an absurdity – in Norway. It is especially to read the history of when a decision was made to establish democracy. Norway could not choose to do so on its own. We hadn't had our own kings since the 1500s, and then, in 1905, we figured out that one should be equipped with a king. I think it was an expression of uncertainty about your own position in the world, which we know the historians also point to, and perhaps also lack of self-confidence. Being a state and having a king would strengthen Norway's independent role. A transition to a state form that is purely democratic will be a natural continuation of what began in 1884 for Norway, which actually started in 1814, and which was the tradition built on the French revolution – and to the extent of the American – the rebellion against the hereditary position, the hegemonic hegemony, and governance of society. It is, I think, quite rightly, the representative of the Supreme Court says, that this rebellion was initiated by those who did not have hereditary positions in society: by workers, by workers in our time. That's why this is an extension of that work. I just want to give support to the representative of the Supreme Court and stress that this would be a natural step for several other parties in this big business to take an active stand for. It seems more like one thought it's good to live in the absurdity, the anachronism that we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e550	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e566	It is a pleasure to be allowed to present a majority position that I expect also has a majority in the Chamber, but so far it may indicate that there is no constitutional majority to include in the Constitution the wording that it is up to the state authorities to facilitate the conditions for the Sami people, such as the indigenous peoples, to secure and develop their language and their culture. In the majority's view, it is a natural continuation of the policy developments we have had in Norway since we joined ILO Convention No. 169 in 1989. It is important to stress that what is our reason for going to legislate the state we now believe exists in Norwegian society is based on the second paragraph of the ILO Convention, which says – and I quote: ‘or the current state boundaries were established and which, irrespective of their legal status, have retained some or all of their own social, economic, cultural and political institutions’. I stress it because I see in the public debate about the concept of "ur people" that some people want to put it out as if it were a definition of those who were there first, and that we then get a discussion about who really was here first. But our reason for going along with that wording is what I was now referring to from the ILO Convention, because there is no doubt that together was in Norway when the border commission in 1826 established the borders of the Norwegian State. So that's the starting point for our conclusion. We've used that term multiple times from Storting's side, for example. in connection with Innst. 57 S for 2014-2015, on the activities of the Sameting – just to take one concrete example. We also have the well-known Selbu case, where one said in 2001 that it is not doubtful that, by definition of the ILO Convention, together has the status of indigenous people. So it's a incorporated term, it's politically accepted, and it's the same thing from the legal and judicial point of view. With that background, we now seem to have time to bring the Constitution into line with what is the actual situation. In dealing with this matter, we have had a meeting with Sametinget. We were visiting them on 3 and 4 January this year and got a recording of which of the proposals were available, which were desirable from the Sametinget side. We also made provision on that occasion to get input from those who disagreed with the Sameting's decision to deal with the matter, and we have received input from others, who believe that we should not include the indigenous concept in the Constitution, so that both sides have been heard. In common, too much of the argument has been that you can't say that together was here first, but that's not what makes the proposal the way we put it in. It is also important to stress, when I have now shown that this is established political and legal understanding, that one already recognises the Sami people as indigenous. Then it's important to add what Professor Carsten Smith did in his investigation that he designed for the Sametinget – and I quote again: «I have subsequently received oral confirmation from Sameting that the proposed amended wording of the Basic Law 108 is not intended to have an altered legal effect. This is taken into account in my assessments and proposals.’ We repeat that in the vote is our opinion, and we propose that the proposal for a Constitutional Amendment be accepted – that it is to confirm, not to change, the established legal situation. Then I look forward to – because the vote is missing – a reason why the Right Party and the Advance Party want to use their minority to block for a two-thirds majority in favour of the proposal, and that the Constitutional amendment thereby happens. It is difficult for me to understand why it should be a problem to bring the Constitution into line with established legal and political practices in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e589	Then we will probably make sure to give an answer to that request from the rapporteur on the justification of the Right and the Advance Party for why we choose to vote against this amendment to Section 108. Today, this paragraph reads as follows: ‘It is up to the authorities of the State to facilitate the security and development of their language, culture and society by the Sami People’s Group.’» So this is today's wording in section 108 of the Constitution. Two of the proposals we are now considering, say that the aim is to secure the status of a group of indigenous peoples in the Constitution, while the third proposal we were to decide on underlines that the state authorities should facilitate the preservation and development of their language, culture and social life by the Sami people. So you have replaced the word "population" with the word "people". I have recorded that in the public debate, it has been a very important point to find out that the Norwegian Constitution should be sought more in line with what the countries Finland and Sweden have chosen in their constitution. When we get into it, we see that Finland uses the term "urfolk" while Sweden uses the term "people" in its formulation of the Constitution. Today, in Norway, we use the term ‘population’. There is therefore no similar practice in this field, so there is no argument that Norway should change its constitution. As the rapporteur pointed out, the Right and the Progressive Party are the Committee's minority. We want to say no to all the proposals that have been submitted. It's no secret that we have a rather conservative view of changing the Constitution in time and time. There shall be particularly serious reasons and particularly good arguments for the Grand Duchy to make changes to the Constitution, as we see it. The fact that a two-thirds majority is required in order to make changes to the Constitution also shows the seriousness of our assessment of constitutional changes. These are not ‘common matters’ that we deal with in the Storting and that require only a general majority. These are issues in which we should think carefully about what consequences it can have if we join the proposals put forward. So we can't see that there are very serious reasons why we have to change Section 108 now. In the legal investigation developed by Professor Carsten Smith on behalf of the Sametinget on the amendment to the Basic Law § 108, he writes: «On behalf of Sametinget I have later received oral confirmation that the proposed amended wording of Section 108 of the Basic Law is not intended to have any altered legal effect. This is taken into account in my assessments and proposals.’ If a change is not to change the legal state, you have to ask yourself why you have to change the wording. At the same time, in the minority of the committee, we are not reassured about the argument that if we change, this should have no legal effect. Saying that it will not have legal consequences does not mean that it will not change the legal situation. In any case, a change is likely to have significant political implications and could also be interpreted as a political signal of increased power and authority to, for example, The contraction, some of us don't want. In this area, there are also a number of large-scale messages, large-scale decisions and international conventions. This will be comprehensive for the individual parties wanting to achieve politically by a constitutional change, as we see it. I also note that the change is controversial. The Supervisory and Constitutional Committee was and visited the Sameting, and there is not a unanimous decision in the Sameting behind the wish for this amendment to the Constitution § 108. I think we should be more vigilant not to contribute to an increase in the level of conflict within a theme that creates a lot of debate, especially in our northern part of the country. Today we have our own paragraph for the Sami People's Party, and I think that should be sufficient. It is the decision of the Government and the Grand Duchy and the exercise of policies in this area that should matter and that is noted, and on this basis the Right and the Advance Party will today vote against all the proposed amendments to § 108.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e616	In general, I can join the case spokesperson. The Norwegian state has not, historically, had so much to be proud of when it owes it to the Sami people. The research policy will forever be a disgrace in our history. At the same time, it is good that over the last decades we have come up with a better and more constructive track. It started already in the 1948 Declaration of Human Rights, and in the 1959 Coordination Department of the Schoolwork we got the Committee to settle the same issues, which were dealt with in the Stortinget in 1963. We got after this Conseil, which was in function from 1964 to 1989, when the Sameting was created as a popular body. At the same time, it has not been free from squeaks. We who are grown, think Alta-saka and the consequences of this. In 2009, the Presidency of the Grand Duchy set down a selection to look at a limited revision of the Constitution in order to strengthen human rights in national law by giving the rank of central human rights laws. The report came in 2011 and formed the background for a new section 108 of the Constitution, which is now called: ‘The State Governing Authorities shall facilitate the security and development of the Sami People’s Group and the development of Sami languages, culture and society’.» With the linguistic renewal of the Constitution in 2014, the ‘Samian People’s Group’ was continued because there were no multiple options for debate. It's still so that we in the Center Party view together as a people, and we're part of that multiple in the committee that wants to change the wording when it's called the 'co-determination'. We in the Committee at the beginning of this year have been visiting the Sametinget, and we have met with several representatives of the Sami people who think it is in place to change the text of the Constitution. So it's right that it's not a completely coherent Sameting either, but the great plurality, and the plurality of the groups, are clear that they want a change in the text. That is why we in the Central Party support the proposal to change the wording of the text, that he should take on board the fact that the Sami people should also be referred to as the indigenous peoples of the country. I had hoped that we could have got a multiple today that had given two thirds of the plural, so that we had finished this case. I think I would have made more peace to be able to develop the work both for the community and for the other peoples of Finnmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e634	We had a round at the last constitutional session where we discussed what kind of language theme the Constitution should have. The language theme, especially in the book target section, is not comprehensive for the legal names we use today. In some areas, the language mentioned in the Constitution, i.e. the bookcase, does not match what is commonly used in the Norwegian judicial system today. Some of the words that are used have even expired. For this reason, it's important that we develop Constitution at any time, so that it's actually understandable in the face of reality, whether it relates to language or other relationships. This is just such a thing, where we're going to try to figure out how to refer to what is now referred to as the ‘Samian People's Group’ – how to describe them in our own constitution, based on what we have already committed ourselves to internationally. The international legal situation is clear. The Party of Advancement, Right – all the parties here on the United Kingdom have, on different occasions, been in the United Nations, in government or in the United Kingdom and decided that we should speak together as a people, and that together are the indigenous peoples of Norway. The question is, why does the 'Samian People's Group' say in the Constitution? Why doesn't it say 'Samian people'? Why aren't they all referred to as "ur people"? It has natural historical foundations. These stems from the establishment of the cooperative from 1987, which was developed by Carsten Smith. This was in 1987, i.e. two years before the ILO Convention on Native Peoples was established. So when we established the alliance in Norway, it wasn't an international outreach of indigenous people. So we didn't talk about any group in the sense of international law. It was developed after that. Then came the ILO Convention in 1989, and since then there has been an extensive development of this area, to which Norway has subscribed and helped develop over time. Then comes the same person who referred to the Sami peoples not as 'ur people', but as 'populations', and says that now we need to change the gripping apparatus here, so that we are in the situation of international law, in which we have all recognised, and then come up with a proposal that we should refer to the Sami people as 'Norreg's indigenous people, and a comprehensive statement that 'people' and 'ur people' are not mutually contradictory. Nor is there anyone from the legal point of view who has disagreed with Carsten Smith's assessment in that area – none – as far as I have seen. So come up with an assessment that there won't be a set of new government commitments in this either, precisely because it isn't, because we've already joined the international obligations in this area. This is just about adapting the Norwegian constitution to the reality that we live in, that we sign, that everyone in this Chamber has been able to adopt. But the Right Party and the Progress Party don't want it. And the foundation that the representative of Leirstein used here is completely incomprehensible, totally unintelligible. I didn't understand anything he said. I understood the words he used, but I did not understand the logic he used. I ask him to come up and do something for once again, because this is written in the history books. Does the representative, Leirstein, think that we should not have a constitution that is consistent with the reality we live in? That's what he actually said here, because he thought something would happen. But no one claims it; it is only the representative of Leirstein who believes it. He's all about it. Is there anything else in the back? That's when it reveals the question. Why this resistance to addressing the wording of the Constitution in this area? These are the same parties that voted against the establishment of a truth commission for the research process that has been going on together for a long, long time – also the wives, for the sake of the cause, but it is the same thing that we are talking about here today. It is a truth commission that is going to go through the assaults the state and society have done to the Sami people, whom the King has exemplified, which the prime minister regrets. Then the Storting takes on the consequences of this and establishes a Truth Commission to clear up and clarify the historical relationships that led to the abuses that led to the inquiring of together, where one took from people culture, traditions and languages. But the same parties said Norway should not go through such a process. The party of progress was totally against it. In the last round, Michael Tetzschner, who was a spokesperson for the Right, had a diminutive input into the question. He said he wanted the party to be constructive in the further process. But the Progress Party did not want this. That assault would remain under the carpet. One wasn't supposed to touch it. I think it's only in the light that we can understand it – that this is no reason to build anything on. It was just a pure prejudice that appeared here on the pulpit in the Stortinget. That's what I think is broken. It is also sought to see that the Constitution as a national building that is being built stone by stone – each of which makes little changes, there is a slow construction that is taking place here – seems to stop altogether, because one in the Progress Party and the Right has realized that the Constitution is now completely finished. She'll never evolve any more, no matter what the world around us looks like. Now this work is going to stop. Not one word should be changed. Words and languages may fall, but the Constitution shall remain as it once was. That's what I thought was a strange position to have.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e651	The backbone of this case is the long historical lines, in which groups like indigenous peoples have had different degrees of recognition, and where the status has been discussed. It's done wrong, and it's pages of the story we as a nation have little reason to be proud of. Another back ground for this matter is, of course, the work of the Human Rights Committee, in which a new paragraph of the Basic Law on the right to Sami language, culture and social life was proposed in its time. The committee's work was based on a proposal that was made and discussed in detail in the first study of the Committee on Civil Liberties, NO. 1984: 18 on the legal position of the Joint Committee. The work of the committee showed that the weight had gradually been shifted from group as a minority to group as an indigenous. Norway ratified ILO Convention No 1989 169 on indigenous peoples and tribal peoples of independent states. It was clear provided that the Convention would also apply to meetings in Norway. The committee considered that the development following the adoption of the Basic Law § 110a should be changed. The Christian People's Party agrees with that assessment. The basis for Norwegian co-policy is that the state of Norway is established in the territory of two peoples, nordics and samers, and that both peoples have the same right and the same requirement to develop their culture and language. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we believe that development means that together should be defined as indigenous rather than minority. In this respect, I would like to refer to ILO Convention No. 169 and the formulation that defines indigenous peoples. The central issue here is whether any current group has a connection to a specific area from before the existing state borders were established in the areas concerned. Then we know that the majority of the world's cohabitants live in Norway, and that the Norwegian state therefore has a special responsibility and obligations towards the Sami population. Therefore, in the Christian People's Party, we believe that the Constitutional Paragraph should be amended in line with this, so that it better incorporates itself as indigenous peoples. The Christian People's Party (Christian People's Party) promoted a proposal that was somewhat different from what is now advocated by the majority of the Committee. However, now that we support the proposal as formulated in Document 12:28 for 2015-2016, it is because the core of these two proposals is almost identical. The substance is the same, and the two proposals take the same account, namely clearly defining the position and status of the group. That is why in the Christian People's Party we vote for the wording: ‘It is up to the authorities of the State to facilitate the security and development of the Sami people, such as the indigenous peoples of the country, their language, their culture and their social life.’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e665	A few comments on previous articles were needed. First of all, I would strongly like to distance myself from the representative of Knag Fylkesnes’ claim that the Right is not in favour of this Constitutional Amendment because of prejudice. That I think is quite strong to say, it has no root in reality, and there are no such attitudes or thoughts in our party when we deal with this matter. I think it's beyond the limit to claim it. The reason why I asked for the floor was the rapporteur and the committee chairman, Dag Terje Andersen, who was also a neat and good post, but I reacted a little to the conclusion. He said he thought it was strange that the Right and Advance Party should use their minority to block a change in law. No, we're not the ones who put together the rules for this hall, it's like if there's not a two-thirds majority, it's not going to change the law. The right has independently made its decision, discussed it in the group and concluded that because we do not see that this changes anything in the rights of this people, we will not make this change in the Constitution now. That's our reason. There has been no intention of blocking anything, we've just made the decision because that's what we mean, and that's what we vote for.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e672	It then opens up for a cord change. The representative Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes has asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e679	Thank you, President, for opening up lines. If the representative Harberg had listened carefully to my post, it was especially directed towards the Progress Party – it was in my post as a blatant prejudice – because we know that the Progress Party has representatives who have come with extensive criticism of the group that has been built on strong prejudices: the closure of the Sameting, the withdrawal of the courts, etc., etc. For this reason, it is very disappointing that the Right, which has not proved itself to be the bearer of these kinds of arrests, comes to the same conclusion as the Progress Party in this matter, as a single debt to have the same formulations as an international law uses internationally through the ILO Convention, in other documents, in other laws about mentioning together as a people and as an indigenous person. What is the reason why the representative does not want the same wording in the Norwegian Constitution?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e686	I listened very carefully to the comments made by the representative Knag Fylkesnes, and there is no doubt that he also addressed the Progress Party very clearly. At the same time, both along the way in the post and in his summary, he concluded that there was a common position that made us vote in common, and then the prejudices were a prerequisite for it. That's what I asked him not to do, because it doesn't really matter. We are not in favour of this proposal, because we do not see the need to make a change to the Constitution – that is the Constitution we are talking about. We have a number of things in the Norwegian community where the rights are enshrined in other laws, in conventions that we are in, and where this is protected for them, without amending the Constitution. So we're not going in for this right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e691	But the Constitution is just about to reflect the obligations we've taken on as big societies. So we've recognized together as indigenous peoples internationally and in Norway, they're our indigenous people. Even the party of progress has taken part in decisions that have approved it. They have also recognised them as a people, with the corrections they have. The problem is that we're now using a description in the Constitution that comes from another time, because we didn't use the kind of manipulation that we use today. So this is a pure adaptation of the Constitution to the actual conditions. That's what I think is disappointing that Right won't consider. And when I say it's prejudice – yes, I call a spade a spade. There are real prejudices in the Progress Party against co-workers, it has individual representatives expelled in several cases, that's just the way it is. That's why it's extra disappointing that the Right here is not willing to customize the Constitution. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e697	Then the representative, Mr Knag Fylkesnes, should raise a question if he so wishes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e702	Yes – time passed. Why doesn't he want to customize the Constitution?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e707	Time passed, yes. Perhaps the representative Harberg will reply anyway?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e712	Yes, I can answer what was not a question. That's the assumption here that's a little different, because the representative of Knag County says it's problematic that it's what it says today. However, I have not experienced anyone we have met in this matter – and the committee has done a thorough job, we have met all parties – saying that it is problematic as it stands today, but they want a different wording. They have every right to wish, and they also have the right to wish. The reason I took the floor and went straight with him was that we in the Right would not have that it was a prejudice that made us have this position. I record that he does not regret it or go back on it, and I think that is disappointing.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e719	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e724	For a number of years, the Norwegian state has suppressed our own indigenous people, together. They have been deprived of their language and their right to practice their culture and traditions. The treatment of gathering up through history is a great shame. 38 years ago, Norway witnessed our greatest conservation action – the fight against the development of the Alta-Kautokeino watercourse. But this wasn't just a nature protection fight. This was probably so much a struggle for the rights of indigenous people in Norway, for the rights of all of them. On 21 January 1981, one group began the second hunger strike against power expansion. In early February, a group of Sami women occupied the offices of former Prime Minister Gro Harlem Brundtland. The actions were a serious start to the struggle for the Sámi rights. Even though the dam is in Altaelva today, 38 years later we can still see that the actions did not come without significant victories as well. Some years after the most dramatic events, the King Olav V Conspiracy opened. Still more knew of pride, not shame, when they wore their Sami themes, when they spoke their Sami language and practiced their Sami culture. But together's rights still have to be defended. We are still seeing strong conflicts around major natural interventions in important Sami areas. One of the most controversial issues is the question of using Repparfjord in Finnmark as a garbage dump for the mining industry. The merger has by a large majority rejected these plans. But the government does not want to follow the Sami protests, and can in a short time grant operating concession to the Mining Company Nussir. Elsewhere samian dishes are challenged, on the Fozen in Trøndelag. Before Christmas, the UN Committee on Racial Discrimination asked the government to stop its efforts to build power on Storheia, which is an important southern reindeer area. They have requested that the work be stopped until they have seen the matter. Such a request is not a daily meal. It is serious in itself that the United Nations Committee on Racial Discrimination has said that they will take a look at this matter. The more worrying it is therefore that the government has clearly rejected the United Nations request. The draft Constitution we are discussing today means that we also recognise together as indigenous peoples in the Constitution. It is clear that communities in Norway fulfil the conditions for the definition of indigenous peoples in the ILO Convention. The Court of Justice delivered a judgment in 2001 stating that the ILO Convention undoubtedly confers the same status as an indigenous person in Norway. There should therefore be a clear majority in this Chamber for the amendments proposed. It would be an important part of the work that we have to continue to do – to reach out a hand and apologize for the injustice that the Norwegian state has committed over many years against our own indigenous people.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e741	Paragraph 108 of the Basic Law of the day reads as follows: ‘The State Governing Authorities shall facilitate the security and development of the Sami People’s Group and the development of Sami languages, culture and society’.» As can be seen from Document 12:37 for 2015–2016, a draft constitution, the depositors Kjersti Toppe and the undersigned have promoted a proposal to amend Section 108, where the ‘Samian people’ replaces the term ‘Samian peoples’. The proposal is a follow-up to the draft Constitution Document 12:31 for 2011–2012, and the proposals for § 108. The centre party has on page 19 of the Innst. 187 S for 2013–2014, a detailed justification for the proposal to replace the term ‘Samian People’s Group’ with ‘Samian People’. This reason I end completely to today as well, and there are no new matters or arguments in the case that change this now. The designation of indigenous peoples is a minimum standard to be used for all groups which have not been involved in the establishment of the national State. It has been necessary to incorporate at all in order to achieve a fairly structured dialogue with the most negative national states as the minimum standard. But the term people is much clearer and stronger in both national and international legislation than the concept of indigenous peoples. The concept of people expresses the equivalence expressed by His Majesty the King in 1997 in his speech to Sametinget, by stating that the state of Norway is established in the territory of two peoples: Northmen and Samer. The use of the term "Samian people" does not exclude that Samer is also an indigenous person. This is the broad consensus. When the case was pending on 13 May 2014, 92 representatives of the Central Party voted in favour, while 76 representatives voted against. It was the representatives of the Right and the Progressive Party who voted against the proposal of the Central Party. The proposal therefore did not receive a constitutional majority. The present proposal, from Kjersti Toppe and signed, was probably an attempt to move forward and conclude a debate on the concepts of the Sami peoples or indigenous peoples, so that the Stortinge could concentrate on the work ahead of them for more equivalent treatment of the Sami people in relation to the Norwegian people, in all respects. This applies not least to education, business and culture. Equal opportunities for education in Sami languages, with skilled learning skills and modern study materials, are very important in the future, as well as providing opportunities for better profitability in modern business based on the Sami culture, which will provide labour income for many – and I stress many – among the Sami people. The proposal by Kjersti Toppe and the undersigned was therefore a proposal to unite the parties on a safe national and international basis. Mr Tetzschner was very understanding in this debate on 13 May 2014 for the proposals of the Central Party. Today we're back in the trenches, and there's a decline. I will vote in favour of Document 12:37 for 2015-2016, so I will vote against III in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e767	I understand that the representative from SV, Knag Fylkesnes, did not understand the reason for the Right Party and the Advance Party for why we said no. But at least I understood very clearly the reason of Knag County for why SV intended to say yes. It must simply be the bad conscience you have toward the Sami peoples. So because of the injustice that many have done to them over many years, SV has to vote in favour of this Constitutional Amendment, and that's the reason for changing the Constitution. I think that's a funny reason. There is evidence that many who are taking part in this debate have not really been involved in what is stated in the Constitution today. Today it says: ‘It is up to the authorities of the State to facilitate the security and development of their language, culture and society by the Sami People’s Group.’» This is stated in the Constitution today, so what you're looking for is in the Constitution today. Our point is to change the Constitution, add something or subtract something, there should be very good reasons why you should do it. It is stated in the Constitution today that ‘the Sami People's Group can secure and develop its language, culture and social life’. I have not proposed that that paragraph be removed. Therefore, I cannot believe that one should be accused of having prejudices because one does not agree with a proposal that SV believes is important to have adopted. If we have prejudices, that means that the Swedish Parliament has prejudices. The Swedish Riksdagen has not taken the word 'urfolk' into its constitution, so I suppose that means that you think our brothers are full of prejudices? And what about the Center Party? The original proposal of the Centre Party, from two of their representatives, is to incorporate the concept of ‘people’. This is certainly a proposal we could look at. Of course, we have considered the proposal of the representatives of Lundtigen and Toppe, but our point is that there should be very good reasons to change the Constitution, and we have chosen not to support that proposal as it was then promoted. But that was what the Central Party really wanted, and then the Central Party in the Committee has decided to support the proposal to include 'ur people'. But does that mean that the Center Party also has prejudices, since they would not initially take the term "ur people"? We can't drive to characterize each other this way. This is not about prejudices, and this is not about the debate before and against the establishment of the Sameeting. Yes, the Progress Party was against the creation of the Sameting, and the Progress Party is not for us to have a merger. It's in our party program, but it's not about prejudice. And it's not like it's 100 pst. The integration of the Sami People's Group on the Federation as an institution, but that does not mean that those in the Sami People's Group who do not support it have prejudices. That's not what this is about, it's about how we're going to manage our country and our resources. Then I am very pleased that Knag Fylkesnes’ party trap Lars Haltbrecken took the floor, because then it was quite clear that you want to change this paragraph to ensure further rights for the Sami peoples. There were a number of examples of cases in which the SV clearly believe that the Stortinget and the majority of the Storting run the Sami People's Group, but by changing the Constitution it was going to end. It was the essence of the post for Haltbrecken. Then I am back to what was the starting point for my post. We don't want to change the Constitution, because we think that a change in this paragraph can change the legal situation, and we don't want that. Although it is said not to change the legal situation, we are convinced that it can quickly be the consequence of changing this paragraph. That is why we believe that today's paragraph, with the wording it has today, should be the basis, and therefore we are voting against the amendments that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e785	This case is all about meeting the current law internationally, i.e. we have formulations here that we're already obliged to. When it comes to the status of indigenous peoples, it is a 2001 Supreme Court ruling, as the representative Haltbreken also pointed out in his statement, that according to the ILO Convention, the status of indigenous peoples in Norway is similar. So Norway has ratified and implemented decisions through the United Nations system giving together that status in Norway. That's the legal state we have. Recognising together as indigenous people in the Norwegian Constitution, which is the question here, does not change the legal status, but is a recognition in our constitution of what is already a direct consequence of us joining the ILO Convention. So that's the reluctance to use the epitome of "ur people" I spin on. I have no reason to believe that there are prejudices that are driving the position of the Right in this matter. I think it's traditional, old inconsistency between Right and SV, where Right is the Constitutional Conservative, and SV is the Constitutional Progressive – to put it that way. But when you look at the history of the Progress Party in this case, I think their foundation is another. They have representatives who have called for a non-flagging on the day of the people. They have representatives who have called for one to refuse joint own badges, that the Sameting should be closed down – in more recent times. We have had state councils in charge of the judiciary, who have refused to answer questions relating to Sami matters. The situation we're in here is quite special for that particular party, but this case is all about adapting Norway's constitution to the current law in Norway and internationally, about referring to it as 'people' and as 'ur people', recognising it. Thus, an absolutely no bad conscience, but I would like to emphasize that not recognising together as indigenous peoples suggests an unwise line from the state's side, where one creates more noise, more suspicion, which is quite unnecessary at a time when the project must be to create reconciliation and gathering between the peoples of Norway on which the state is built.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e796	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e812	We are now going to consider two proposals, which deal with a new paragraph of the Constitution on the right to a satisfactory standard of living and health. A little about the background: The Human Rights Committee, which in its time was established by the Presidency, issued its report to the Presidentship of the Storting on 19 December 2011. The report is printed as Document 16 for 2011–2012. Both of the proposals we are considering today are supported by the reasons set out in that document. The Human Rights Committee proposed a new Section 111 on the right to a satisfactory standard of living and health. The minority of the committee, Carl I. Hagen, did not agree with the proposal, cf. particular note as set out in Document 16 for 2011–2012 point 11.4.2. Let me first briefly explain the justifications of the proposers based on the justification of that sample. The selection showed that in order for individuals to live a life of dignity while at the same time taking advantage of the freedom with which all humans are born, it is essential that the most elementary and fundamental human needs are met. This is access to food, water, clothing, housing and health care. The selection further indicated that the fundamental law of these rights would not entail legal changes other than the fundamental law itself. Today, ordinary legislation ensures both social protection, satisfactory living standards and the best possible health. From the point of view of the sample, a constitution would ensure that government authorities continue to prioritise public resources in the future in such a way that people in Norway can live a humane life. In the view of the sample, basic legislation could also guide the design of legislation as well as the implementation of measures to promote health and living standards in the population. Then to the majority position of the committee. Thus, the proposals put forward are based on the proposals of the Human Rights Committee and have previously been submitted as part of the Constitutional proposal 31 for 2011–2012. However, none of the proposals reached the constitutional majority at the time of the Stortinge hearing. And as the majority sees it, we have comprehensive legislation in Norway that is intended to meet the need for social protection, satisfactory living standards and the best possible health. First of all, this applies to the law on social security, which is intended to ensure financial security for unemployment, sickness, disability and old age. However, the Law on Social Security does not cover all aspects and is supplemented by, among others, the law on Social Security. the Social Services Act, the Patient Rights Act, the Public Health Act, the House Rental Act, etc. In the vote, a majority, all members other than the member of the Socialist Left Party, believe that today's legislation ensures the necessary legal regulation to ensure a satisfactory standard of living and health for citizens. A fundamental regulation of these types of rights will make it difficult for later large numbers to amend legislation, including: because it is the Supreme Court which ultimately interprets the scope of the Constitution. Over time, this will strengthen the judicial process at the expense of the government. On the basis of this, the majority therefore proposes that the proposals for new § 111, all alternatives, be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e833	With the President's permission, I would like to have a principle approach to this proposal, but which, to a large extent, is also comprehensive on case No. 5, on cultural identity, case No. 6, on the right of residence, and case No. 7, on noise. It's an approach that kind of applies to all of these things, and then I don't have to take the floor in every single case. It has been a discussion – as was said – in the context of the report of the Human Rights Committee since it was handed over to the presidency in 2011. It's a fundamental discussion of what we want the Constitution to be. In my opinion, the most important thing in the Constitution is the sovereignty of the people. But then, of course, it is also an important role for the Constitution that it should sort the power and distribute it between the three constituent powers, i.e. the National Assembly, the King, i.e. the government, and the courts, and ensure the fundamental human rights. So far, I think everyone agrees that that must be the purpose of the Constitution. Then there's a discussion about how many special rights should be mentioned in the Constitution – besides that. We have come to the conclusion that otherwise good purposes should not necessarily be formulated in the Constitution. This time – and for the case number we are now on – it concerns living standards and health. Fortunately, I have not heard anyone who believes that it – or the three others I mentioned – should not be grounded, should mean that one was less concerned with people's living conditions and health, but it is our opinion that the best solution is through special laws, through a break between government and big business, and that at the end of the day it is the Stortinge which will adopt the laws and budgets that will provide satisfactory living standards and health. Our concern is not every one of these proposals – for some of these proposals deal with the purposes for which we are – but it is in the event of a possible evolution over time when many of the types of proposals would be made to be constitutional, that we are afraid that, in sum, it could lead to a greater legalisation at the expense of the power of this Chamber, and in its good purpose actually limit the sovereignty of the people, which I believe is the most important thing of the Constitution. It is mentioned in previous debates here today – about the government, the King, the great power – and there is a debate about where power lies, now with a majority government and the Storting. The important principle to remember in Norway — I think — is that the highest political body in Norway is the voters in elections, i.e. election. It is through choice and decision-making that one should join in the development of a desire in health, living standards and other rights that we have established in society – due to good political governance of society. It is our opinion that not all such proposals should necessarily be included in the Constitution. That is the reason why we are voting against the present draft constitution and – as I mentioned – the three subsequent ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e848	I would first like to promote the minority proposal in the vote. Norway has ratified human rights. That means that there is a set of rules that should be governing and leading how we establish the state and the relationship between the state and the inhabitants. I am not in doubt that all parties in this Chamber believe that the state should be responsible for the welfare and living conditions of people in Norway, but the point of legislating it is that it is a task for the state to ensure it in the constitution. It will not change the current legal status of the different rights that citizens have, but it will provide a basis for securing the rights in the future, but will also mark the clear responsibility of Norway as a country for its citizens. It is a way of thinking about society and the state that builds on the community and the rights of individuals in the community that Norway is. It is based on the fact that, once Norway has ratified human rights, it should also be enshrined in the Constitution, as proposed when the major investigation on the implementation of human rights was presented and developed, both in law and in the Constitution. So both I see in the vote and hear in the debate that this is being discussed with legalizing at the expense of the People's Government. It's a debate I've been wondering about for a very long time. Because it is then the wise government that has adopted the rights. There may be differing views on how much, how much and how much rights the individual should have for the different services, but no matter where the level is set, decisions by elected political bodies are taken. The kind of legalisation of such standards or welfare goods is part of the regime that is said here to feel limited. That's not true. A basic law proposed here will not change it, because all parties in this room believe that there should be such welfare goods and welfare services. I expect that all parties also agree that this is not only about the allocation of money, but also about the law that gives citizens different rights to well-being. I think it's a very strange debate. I really hope that it is not such that you believe that in the case of e.g.. people with developmental disabilities, disabled persons, children in need of child protection, or those in need of assistance when they are unable to support themselves because they are sick or old, it should have been decided by the Storting in each session whether to receive anything or not. I can see that that's not how the situation is. I see that what you're talking about here as a legal process and as something almost negative, is really something we're pretty much in agreement about all of them, if it's not like that, that there's someone who's been thinking about reducing these rights pretty strongly. Then I can see that you are also concerned about including this in the Constitution, but not the situation now, and the way the different parties at least talk about their own wishes for different rights to individuals. So that reason I think might be the weirdest of all. I would also like to point out that the other Nordic countries have incorporated this into their constitution and that, as far as I can see, there is no difference in the fact that there can also be political adoption of various changes to the underlying law. Such a foundation law as the minority, SV, suggests here, will only confirm that the state should have this responsibility in any case. So the dimensioning of it all the time will be a political debate. However, when you choose not to take this in, it can also be interpreted as a signal that it may not be so important for some parties, so that they feel that there should be a supporting element in the responsibility of the governing authorities in Norway based on the constitution. With this in mind, we want the Stortinge to decide that option 2, which is proposed, is acceptable.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e867	The representative, Karin Andersen, has drawn up the proposal she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e874	I think the representative Karin Andersen had many good points in his post. I think we are very united about much of the level of well-being that we have laid in this room, and there is no intention to reduce heavily the benefits you have set up, by not joining this Constitutional Amendment today. But does the representative Andersen also see that taking too many so-called rights into the Constitution can be a challenge – moving power from this hall to the Supreme Court, which will ultimately interpret the Constitution? Can you see that this too can be a challenge?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e879	I see no imminent danger of this in Norway today. I think that's a bit of a thoughtful and sought-after argument, because this isn't about putting all sorts of rights – individually – into the Constitution, it's about confirming that human rights, as Norway has committed itself to through international conventions, are an obligation for state authorities to secure its citizens. That means that there may be different levels of this, but it can no longer be interpreted as being part of the constitutional responsibility that the state has assumed and that we agree that we should have. There was also a majority, as far as I remember, in the large, wide selection that investigated how we should implement the human rights in our constitution, which answered yes to that question -- it's probably not so much sought.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e884	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e889	I only have a few comments. Norway is one of the OECD countries with the lowest basic laws on human rights. Of the 30 OECD countries, Norway is among the countries with the lowest human rights obligations. It is not that the Stortinget would go far if one had accepted the proposals we are now considering, which were part of the constitutional process we had devoted to implementing human rights in the Norwegian constitution. We will still be far from many countries. Finland, for example, goes even further in some areas in the constitutionalisation of justice than is the basis of human rights. So there's another way to think about it. One goes further, one wants to lead the way, while Norway has been very reluctant to implement human rights in the Norwegian constitution, for various reasons. Where we've been far off, the borders of the state and the judicial system apply, but when it comes to the obligations of the state and the judicial system, especially the obligations of the state, the civil rights, Norway still has a long way to go. Of all OECD countries, 14 out of 30 countries have constitutionally agreed living standards. If Norway had done this, it would have increased to 15 — just to illustrate that this is not an exceptional, unusual proposal; this is common practice in very many countries. I would also like to point out that it was not only the SV who was behind this proposal, as it may seem today. There were also three representatives from the Labour Party and one from the Left who supported it when it was originally proposed. Interestingly, the Storting has gone from one period to another from being far more willing to develop the Constitution, to today's big thing, which currently seems to be very conservative. There's nothing of what we're dealing with today, that's going to be passed, even if there's more open issues that we've ratified and implemented in other legislation, and where the next step should be to lift it into the Constitution, so that one gets an even stronger protection in times of growing unrest around the world, which can also come to Norway. It's not unmistakable that the basics that we take for granted in Norway can be challenged in the medium term. I would like to encourage individual representatives following their own conscience to vote in order to extend the Constitution to a satisfactory standard of living.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e904	The President would remind us that when it comes to constitutional proposals, the individual representatives are behind the proposals, not the parties. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e922	This proposal is about legislating the right to cultural identity and participation in cultural life. The proposers will have a new section 107 that states: «The authorities of the Member States shall respect and facilitate the participation of individuals in cultural activities and experience a diversity of cultural expressions.» At the same time, it is stated: «The freedom of science and art shall be respected.» The Committee recognises the importance of cultural development and participation in cultural activities. It is of importance both for personal development, for the establishment and marking of identity and belonging, and for life and life. As rapporteur on this matter, I would actually like to stress the importance of this being expressed as it does on the part of the Committee: that we have a parliament, a unanimous popular assembly, which recognises that art and culture are defining for a society, that art and culture are absolutely fundamental to preserving and renewing traditions and spirit life – yes, for democracy and for life. It may seem a matter of course that it is, but it isn't. Not all countries share this recognition, and history has shown us examples of exactly the opposite. The value of free art and cultural expression cannot be overestimated. It must not be taken for granted. This consciousness is also taken with us when we discuss constitutional changes. The question we have to ask ourselves, however, is whether fundamental law, as it is specifically proposed in this case, will bring about a real change in the legal state of the day. Without the proposed new § 107 being given a more concrete content of opinion, I believe that there may be doubts as to the purpose of the provision, and that the Authority of the Constitution is thereby actually weakened. The Committee, all except SV, considers that the proposal is intended to define the responsibility of the State for the organisation and protection of cultural life and the opportunities for individual participation. At the same time, the majority of the Committee considers that any fundamental legislation would not entail a real change in the current legal situation. It is therefore not appropriate, in the view of the majority of the Committee, to adopt such an amendment without any new paragraph having more substance. At the same time, we have sectoral legislation today under the Culture Act. Law of 29 June 2007 No. 89 on the responsibility of public authorities for cultural enterprise, better known as the Culture Act, is precisely designed to ensure that everyone can participate in cultural activities and experience a diversity of cultural expressions. The Committee recommends that the proposal not be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e947	Culture is deeply important – both for each individual human being and for society. It is a fundamental good upon which man depends to evolve and live a good and not least meaningful life. And it's opinions and expressions of opinions, thoughts and feelings. Art and culture have a value in themselves, which it's impossible to put a price tag on. SV proposes to establish in a new section 107 that state authorities should facilitate and respect the participation of individuals in cultural activities and experience a diversity of cultural expressions. The freedom of science and art must be respected. That is what the proposal says. This is in line with the Human Rights Committee, which, after a thorough and reflected work, proposed a new section 107 of the Basic Law on the right to cultural identity and participation in cultural life. Establishing the right to culture and the freedom of culture is frighteningly topical and important right now. We are living at a time when important democratic values and rules of play are under pressure. While confidence in the established is in many places and media reality is becoming more and more fragmented, authoritarian forces are in a false populist dress on front march. In different forms and degrees, they are both in the streets and in many countries also by power. In Hungary, for example, the profoundly conservative and right-wing radical government has pushed through the fact that some theatre sets are not to be set up because they are critical to the content. It is very serious that in Europe in 2019 we have countries that make such serious restrictions on the freedom of culture and art. For the freedom of art and culture is a fundamental democratic value. It is completely parallel to what we usually understand as freedom of expression – free expression of thought and meaning in the form of art and culture. The freedom of society depends on the freedom of expressions such as those of other opinions. We have established a number of freedoms and rights in Norway, for example: freedom of assembly and freedom of expression. But the right of citizens to experience cultural pressure – and not least the duty of the state to respect the freedom of art and culture – is not fundamental. We should change that, especially at a time when these democratic values are under pressure. We need a strong, constitutional defence for the freedom of art. We can never know what the political situation in Norway will be like in 10, 20 or 50 years. A quick look at the continent we're part of now shows it too clearly. Perhaps we will once bitterly regret that not a large enough majority adopted this change and took advantage of the opportunity in 2019. We already have politicians in Norway who have been out there threatening to cut state aid to theatres and museums because of content they don't like. Last summer, for example, The representative Sylvi Listhaug outside and demanded that the 22nd of July centre remove part of his exhibition, and indicated that the centre received public crowns. Now before Christmas the debate broke when Oslo FrP and the representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde demanded a cut in the support of the Black Box theater after a provocative performance on stage. This is also an attack on the freedom of art and culture. Using the power of money and the state to prevent expressions and methods that are provocative is to intervene in free speech in a completely unacceptable way. Nevertheless, representatives from one of Norway’s government parties propose to do just that. It shows us that we in Norway are not immune to the trends we see outside the world either – on the contrary. In Norway too, we must defend important democratic values, such as the freedom of art. That is why this proposal is important. The parallel of freedom of expression, § 100 of the Constitution, is interesting for several reasons, including: because an important part of our Section 100 and freedom of expression is the so-called infrastructure requirement: «It is for the authorities of the State to facilitate an open and informed public conversation.» This requirement has been the basis of an active media policy, media pluralism and public vocabulary. We also need such an infrastructure requirement for artistic expression and culture – both in order to anchor a public cultural policy that facilitates a diversity of cultural expressions, and in order to anchor the fact that all citizens are entitled to this fundamental, important human good, regardless of who they are. That is why I am disappointed that the representatives of the Workers' Party, who are usually the defenders of culture, have not supported the proposal in the Committee. I am also very excited about the Left, who sits with the Minister of Culture, serious about what they write in the cultural message that has just been delivered to this room. Now everyone has the real opportunity to show that the social and democratic power of culture is more than just words in a document. I'm addressing SV's suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e980	The representative Freddy André Supreme Court has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e985	The reason why I take the floor is because I feel it's in the cards that we don't go in to legislate this is against cultural freedom and cultural inadequacy. I mean, and to me, it's absolutely decisive, that like the Constitution is today, and with the laws and rules that we have otherwise, this is a good deal. It is important to us that we have a constitution that is not too extensive, but at the same time is clear about the most important thing, and that we can keep it at this level. It's okay to bring it with you. I think it's important that we set some limits on what the Constitution will cover. We have the most important basis in the laws today, and I trust that the other laws and regulations will govern in detail how we will ensure this in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e992	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e1008	There are many good intentions behind the Constitutional Bill on the right to own housing. At the same time, for us in the Center Party, there is a question of what kind of principle and leadership is going to enter the Constitution, as mentioned in the previous case. Some principles and rules are other laws to take in. A dwelling is a well-being in line with work, health and education. A safe and stable building situation is a necessary framework in the life of all people. It is, of course, an objective of housing policy that everyone should have the opportunity to own their own housing. But is there something home in the Constitution? I, the case-speaker, and the majority of the committee have joined in, have, in the basics of rejecting the proposal, referred to the many areas that regulate housing policy today. Both the social services law, the work of state and local housing social work, takes this into account. We have therefore shown that we assume that the housing social action plan will be revised in 2020. There is no doubt that finding your own dwelling is challenging for many. Last year, the square metre price for new single cities passed NOK 35,000. For used dwellings, the price was about NOK 10,000 lower. At the same time, the rental prices have increased in line with the price increase. So the needle polish can be too much for many of those who want to enter the market. In addition, the new regulation on the housing market in Oslo, which has been necessary, has also contributed to making things more difficult for some. It is important that we get a payment for those who want to buy their own dwelling for the first time. It is also a major challenge that many disadvantaged people and people with special needs lack housing and that the housing-free group does not decrease. Therefore, there is a need for a housing social uplift in Norway that guarantees everyone the right to their own housing. When we don't think this is home in the Constitution, but in our local authorities' work, it's from a point of view that the municipalities themselves have to help develop a diverse housing market, adapt residents to different life stages and changing economic situations. It is important that outside the most central strokes, too, it is a rental market that works. Local authorities must be responsible for regulating an adequate number of plots. In a press area, municipalities must cooperate on this. We in the Center Party believe that measures are needed to ensure both housing renewal in the outskirts, and that municipalities can reduce the land prices by establishing municipal property companies. It has been too complicated and costly to build dwellings in Norway, and it has ruined a well-functioning housing market in both the city and the countryside. It is important that everyone is secure access to a dwelling at an acceptable price. Therefore, we must continue to strengthen housing policy instruments in the House Bank, so that municipalities can best implement an active housing policy to meet local needs. But we don't think the solution is to put it into the Constitution, and I would therefore recommend the plural setting that the proposal is not taken into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e1023	First, I would like to address the minority proposal in the matter. It is such that the State has different obligations and it should facilitate the access of individual citizens to the most fundamental rights, which are essential for the function of equivalent citizens. Ensuring that citizens can function as equivalent citizens is one of the most important starting points for this proposal – which I have promoted for several major periods. I'm going to repeat that as long as I'm here, because I think this is such a fundamental need that people in Norway have, in order for them to be able to fulfil their other human rights, for example. the right to privacy, e.g.: the possibility of having a job, e.g. the ability to take education, e.g. the possibility of receiving health services being useful. If you don't have a safe place to live, we know that very much of this isn't really going to work very well, because housing is so fundamental to the security and privacy of the individual people. The Constitution has required the State to respect part of the human rights. We have also ratified the Convention on Human Rights. We have discussed it in a previous case here and had a slightly broader perspective on it, and it was also the Stortinget against. However, different parts of such needs are already set out in the Constitution today, and it shows that the rest of the Storting believes it is right that some of these issues are regulated by the Constitution. This, of course, applies to the issues of governance and legal certainty and such things, but also the right to work and a clean environment is enshrined in the Constitution. So you can ask yourself, is that enough of what the government is doing in that area? I'm probably quite critical of that. But it says there, and that means there's a commitment that the Storting has imposed on governing authorities and itself. So there are different obligations and rights provisions set out in the Constitution, which are considered as the society and authorities that believe are essential to meet both the needs of society and individuals, the basic needs. There can be no doubt that housing is a fundamental need in Norway. It's just sticking your nose out of this room today, you can see that it's almost deadly not to have it. It's little in the lives of the individual who's on care if you don't have a safe place to live. It is absolutely right that this is also regulated in a good deal of other legislation. However, the social housing policy in Norway has been severely weakened in recent years. It's badly weakened, and what we see now is very serious, because the housing market is becoming maybe the biggest difference machine we have in the country, between those who have, and those who don't. Those who have housing benefit from large tax subsidies, and those who do not have have to pay large sums to rent in – money they do not have. The housing stock has also fallen like a rock in the last five years. Social housing policy is so weakened that the right to housing had really earned a place in the Constitution today, in order to ensure this in a better way, so that it should not be up to, for example, each municipality to ensure it, simply because this is the starting point. Anyone who says they're concerned about individual opportunities in society should be in favour of this proposal. I also think it is a democratic problem for society, for people who are homeless, who have to move a lot and do not have a stable and good housing situation, do not have the same opportunity as others to participate in democracy on equal terms with others. It should be one of the most important tasks of society and of the state to facilitate it. I mentioned privacy earlier. It's actually stated in the Basic Law that you have the right to. Then you might be able to discuss what it means, but it's very difficult to have a private life if you're going to stay at a hostel, for example. It's impossible. Another thing about going to groundlaw housing, which is different than part of the other things we've been talking about, is that a dwelling is actually a material object. You can count dwellings, you can take the number of dwellings, you can count those who are homeless, or those who do not have the opportunity to get a safe place to live, either by renting or owning. It is therefore possible to make policy decisions on housing, which are difficult to do in a number of other areas, because it is simply possible to quantify it. It is possible to make perfectly clear decisions to ensure this right. Therefore, there should be no very burdensome or practical reasons against it. I have attended many discussions on, among other things, the right to work, which is also enshrined in the Constitution. It's a little bit harder to say how the state is really going to make sure of it, how it's actually going to happen. With housing, it is different, simply because it is possible to make completely concrete decisions in specific cases and count the results. There are many ways in which this can be done, and there are many different things that must result from such a fundamental law strengthening social housing policy, which reinforces the work to be done in municipalities, which the case-rapporteur was up and talking about, which strengthens the House Bank with both the tools, the money and the means to ensure such a purpose as this. But this is a goal we could achieve. It is simply something of what it would have been possible to adopt, and that could have a totally practical impact on some of the people in society who have the most difficulty. Being able to ensure that people in unsafe situations have a safe home, I think would have been a great advantage when we look at the large resources that the country spends on rehabilitating people like, for example. have been through condoning, rehabilitation people who have been through drug treatment, rehabilitation people who have been in difficult situations and who are going back to society, and who end up in a situation where there is a lack of housing that makes things go completely wrong over and over again. I'm very sorry that the Storting doesn't see that this is one of the most concrete and effective commitments the State should take on, which would ensure some of the very basic things of individual people's lives and opportunities to both have privacy, participate in democracy, accept healthcare, accept education, stand at work – at all all the most important things in life. I understand that the proposal will be voted down now, but I can assure you that this proposal will also be discussed in the next major period.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e1051	The representative, Karin Andersen, has drawn up the proposal to which she referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e1058	One could perhaps get the impression for a moment that the proposal for a fundamental law on the right to housing was the fundamental law on the right to own a dwelling. You could get an idea of it based on what it was argued for, but that might not be what you mean. What I hung up on was what was said that this could not be left to the municipalities. I'm a little surprised that the head of the municipal committee says, who is a representative of SV, a party that very often talks about the municipalities doing many tasks and not least much more tasks, and you're very concerned that the state should do less. We've seen it, for example. in the debate on care for the elderly, where it is very important for municipalities to solve this, we are not going to have State trials on the care of the elderly. But when it comes to housing, SV obviously has no confidence that Norwegian municipalities will resolve the situation. For the Progress Party, it is crucial that it is precisely the municipality that solves these problems, because it is the municipality that is closest to those who need housing. Is it so to understand that you believe that Norwegian municipalities are not able to do that task?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e1067	First of all, with ownership and rent: No, this proposal does not mean that everyone should own, but also there is a need to make quite big changes, so that more people can have the opportunity to own, because that is the most important way people save today. So everyone who hires, loses quite a lot. No, it is not that we do not trust the municipalities, but the municipalities get far too weak instruments from the state – among other things. through the House Bank and the constraints now placed on the House Bank to enable more people to enter both the rental and ownership markets. Intensifications have been done by this government by not adjusting the housing stand, which has fallen like a rock. Then you can ask the municipalities what they think about it, because now the municipalities are left with the social assistance costs, because somewhere people have to live. It costs the whites out of the eye both for the municipalities and for the individual, and there is a bill that the government should take a much larger part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e1076	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e1081	I took the word to address some of the arguments that I see go back on several of these issues. It's eternal: yes, it's good intentions and this is an important proposal, but it may not be quite important enough to legislate it. When it comes to something as fundamental as a roof over the head – a fundamental social right, which is also rooted in human rights – I do not fully understand that argument. For me, this suggests that you are sitting there, and when you sit on a bench in this room, you may not fully understand how essential that right is for people. The representative, Andersen, said it well: without a place of residence, many of the other rights in the Constitution become quite meaningless. This actually testifies to two different slightly general, perhaps even philosophical, directions in this debate. On the one hand, we are only concerned about what can be called spiritual freedoms and rights – and we all agree on them, from freedom of expression, freedom of assembly to civil and political rights – and how important it is that they are reflected in our Constitution. On the other hand, we have the more material rights. It makes no sense to put the two up against each other and try to say that one is more important than the other. At least what I think is clear is that these material rights are essential for a person to have the opportunity to enjoy and benefit from his other rights and freedoms in society. We need both. We need to take more seriously that material rights, as a place to live, are absolutely crucial to a person's life and opportunities. As a person who has just come out of a housing market and rental market as a student, I also know a little about a feeling of provocation on behalf of those who were my fellow students a short time ago. In this country, you are faced with a situation where you either have to raise large loans or get help from your parents – if you are so lucky that you have parents with large wallets – or are thrown into a rental market without a chance. We have such an unregulated housing market in Norway that those who fall through that class division fall far. That is why it would have been beautiful if the Greatness – as was done with the right to work – recognised this more material right and took seriously what many feel and said: everyone in this country should have both the right to freedom of expression and our spiritual freedoms and the absolutely fundamental right it is to have a place to live, which you never get outside, and which is a basis for all other rights and freedoms in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e1094	When we have put forward the Constitutional Law on housing rights, it is for several reasons. Me e.g. that it is wrong that the Constitution confirms the State's obligation to comply with human rights and does not at the same time verify the basic precepts for this. Human rights, which are fundamental rights, impose, inter alia: the State to ensure that everyone has access to the performance of his or her duties. We in SV believe that it is then a paradox that one has not also confirmed in the Constitution the right to housing – for how can one in Norway go to work regularly, without having a place to live? It's sometimes very cold. We are increasingly looking at dangerous climate change in terms of more frequent and extreme weather. And not least, how can you take care of your health, as you need to be able to work, if you don't have a place to live? Things are going on here. The Constitution can take a step towards becoming more holistic, as citizens of this country can also have the right to housing under constitutional law, in conjunction with other personal rights which are also fundamental – in a world and in a Norway where differences are increasing rapidly, and where this can lead to greater social unrest. More and more people will feel like translating. Every now and then, giving a clear signal by giving people who usually sit at the bottom of the table, a groundbreaking right to a place to bow, can't be more than right, in my head. It didn't exactly float over with houses and apartments in this country, but the media can constantly point to housing sharks like theirs and rugs on empty apartments just because they can, afford and think incredibly much money on it. I fear that there is even more political disdain when, on a general basis, the Storting will not lead a policy that is countering these developments. If this proposal had been agreed today, we could get a little more swing on the tail, to say it like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e1107	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e1123	The proposal is a change to the Constitution § 111 to limit what can be tolerated by noise. Noise is an environmental problem, and it's a health problem. It can also be a serious environmental problem and a serious health problem. The Committee believes that changes should be made to strengthen the protection of people against noise. But the committee believes that the Foundation is not the place to make that kind of change. It is true that there is a lot of confusion about the law of today, and it should be cleared up by means of a general legislative change, which can look at how a legal limit can be set for what can be tolerated by noise – that is, a user of the universal law. The proposal is also very detailed. This means that on the one hand, cleaning up the universal law is the best way to do this. On the other hand, the proposal is so detailed that if the Storting had gone in to implement it in the Norwegian constitution, one would have converted into a practice that would have expanded the Constitution significantly. The Constitution from 1814, and also today, is built on a very fundamental approach to how one wants to have it in this society – it's at a principle level, not at a level of detail. SV is to expand the principle on which the Constitution should be based, but we are not followers of increasing the level of detail, how deep one should go at different levels – for example. as in this proposal, on noise. The Committee therefore agrees that it does not wish to adopt this draft constitution, and there is also the SV's opinion on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e1136	Today's § 112 is the most important flag paragraph of the Constitution. It says that everyone has the right to an environment that ensures health, and to a nature where productive capacity and diversity are preserved. So the paragraph is about the human environment and the ecological interaction in nature – nothing is more important for the future. The representatives of Kjersti Toppe and the undersigned have promoted draft constitution 42 of Document 12:42 for 2015–2016. The Constitutional proposal concerns a new second paragraph of Section 111. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Every person has the right to live and travel daily in an environment without harmful noise. The king shall set action limits for outdoor and indoor noise and ensure that the limits are not exceeded.» This is therefore a modernisation and further development of the Constitution’s most important flag paragraph, the environmental paragraph, § 112. As proposers, the proposal shows that noise is an environmental problem that affects very many people in Norway today. Over one and a half million Northmen are exposed to an average noise level above 55 dB at their dwelling, and about half a million Northmen are heavily plagued by noise. Noise in the neighbourhood and in owner-occupied dwellings from sources outside the dwelling is an increasing problem. As proposers, we refer to guidelines for the treatment of noise in land-use planning, which constitute a comprehensive framework tool for noise. Nevertheless, noise protection is weakened by the fact that the noise thresholds are not legally binding unless agreed by the planning authority or the action holder. The law on noise is vague, unexplained and spread on several laws and regulations. There is a lot of confusion among the audience and authorities about the requirements. The proposers believe that we must take noise, which particularly affects the big cities and agglomerations, more seriously. This is done by laying down basic obligations and action limits on health grounds. I want to prioritise option 2 to the third paragraph of Section 112, but since the committee has not addressed this, I now only have the opportunity to demonstrate my position by voting against the recommendation. The Committee agrees not to endorse any of our alternatives to incorporating noise into the Constitution, which I have to take note of, but the positive thing is that an overall committee says: ‘The Committee considers that, in order to clean this up, it would be more appropriate to make a general amendment to the law and the related investigation which can look at how a legally binding limit can be set for what can be tolerated by noise.’ It is therefore a unanimous committee that says that it wants a general legislative change with a legally binding limit, and that is a major step forward. This is therefore an important comment that needs to be given great attention and that the government has to follow up. Noise is such a big health problem for so many that here people have to be given the opportunity to live and move in, for the mind, quiet surroundings. This is what gives strength in everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e1159	I am part of the proposal for a Constitution, and I would like to join in what the representative Lundteg said in his statement as the basis for why it is maintained. Noise is an environmental problem and a health problem, as has been said. Nearly two million Norwegians live in areas with health-damaging noise, and there's a number that is still increasing. If we get such a flag paragraph into the Constitution – with everyone's right to bow and travel in an environment without health-damaging noise – then those who are concerned about having a low-noise society will get a kid to build that argument on. I also believe that the work on law and regulation will get a better speed and greater political weight. I have great respect for the counter-argument, that this is too detailed – even if I don't mean it, I think it is an important principle – and that this will be able to water down the Constitution and make the Constitution lose its power. But the reason I'm behind this proposal is that I distinguish between what is a right to freedom from something, and what is a right to something; that one comes up with a proposal to correct into the Constitution that goes on courts that are mentioned in debates before here – to housing, clothes, cultural experiences, living standards. What I think is unlikely in principle with this proposal, is that you also have a right to freedom from anything. I think that these types of dishes are becoming more and more important in the future. This is a correct one. Freedom from noise is an unlikely-pressed freedom, which I actually thought is so important that it could have lit up a constitutional protection. However, it is positive that, in the case – from a consensus committee – there is a need for legislative change, and at least there is something that has come out of this procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e1174	That noise is a serious health problem is raised beyond doubt. When the Municipal Committee has hearings, both in budgetary and in particular in planning and building law cases, there is always an input from the Norwegian Association against noise that shows how serious the situation is too many. That is why I am very pleased with what is in the position of a unanimous committee, that there is a need to clean this up, but that it would be appropriate to make a general legislative change and related investigations. Then it would have been interesting to hear if anyone from the government or government parties could say whether this would be followed up by them, or whether it is so to understand that one should promote a separate proposal on this in Stortinget as a representative proposal. Because there is no reason to wait to do so when there is a unanimous committee that says that this is necessary. Then it is important to know whether the work is being started by the government, since there is a unanimous committee in the Grand Duchy that agrees to this, or whether this is a work that we in the Grand Duchy should follow up as quickly as possible and ask the government explicitly to do so. I can't see that there is any government council in the hall that can possibly respond to this. I don't know why it's like that, but it might be a little out of the ordinary procedure to have it like that, but in that case, some government parties should be able to give an answer to this, given that there is a unanimous committee behind it. Is this being initiated by the government, or by the government parties, or is an initiative expected from a representative proposal from the government representatives?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e1183	It is not likely that there must be a council of state in the room when Stortinget manages a constitution proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e1188	First of all, there is a Council of State sitting and following the debate today, which is out for a moment now, but all his equipment is in place. So that was the explanation of that. Otherwise, I can confirm that this is a work the government is concerned about, and as they look at it. Moreover, it is true that any committee position – in this case unanimously – from the Storting is something the government should take with it, and I can at least promise that I will remind them of it in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e1197	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e1213	Every day, we become about 219,000 more inhabitants in the world. In Norway, the population increases by nearly 100 people every day, and it's a common denominator for all of them: they need food to live. Norway has a large area, but only 3 pst. land cultivation and 1 pst. cereal soil. At the same time, a lot of food soil is being redispatched in Norway — too much food soil. It's been a lot of comfort in that it's been less in the last few years. For the food we have, it's a national resource that needs to be conserved. There's a wide majority in the Storting that wants to fence our food ground, but there's probably not going to be multiples to take it into the Constitution as long as the Right and the Advance Party seem to want to stir up. But the former Prime Minister, the party leader and the Vice President of the Right, Kåre Willoch, has repeatedly called for a stronger protection of the Earth than today. Both in 2011, in 2013 and last year Willoch has commented on this, and last year he said there should be a levy on the reduction of cultivated land. It's good and good with commitment and new proposals to fend for food, but everyone knows that when investors and speculators are on the market, soil protection loses all too often. Songer Lillebjørn Nilsen song in the «Child of the Rainbow» that «some people think we can live on plastic and synthetic food». Today we can say that Pete Seeger, who wrote the original text, was far ahead of us. The Health Directorate has developed 12 dietary councils. They recommend that we have a lot of vegetables and coarse cereal products and limit quantities of processed meat and red meat. As we become 100 people more every day, we need to produce more in Norwegian resources. We have to produce the food ourselves to the extent that we can. We have to make sure that our food security is still in the center. As you can read more about this, after World War II, we have redispatched 1.2 million. decaves with cultivated and arable land, while the annual re-disposal over the last few years has been going down. In 2017, there was a re-disposal of nearly 9 000 decare cultivated and arable land, while in 2005 there were 17 600 decare redisposed. It's good with this decline. However, as the policy of centralisation and the pressure for development against both large and small cities continues, it makes it more difficult to take care of our soil resources for the future. We can see that, among other things. in Oslo and Akershus, which has re-disposaled a large increase, especially in Ås, Eidsvoll and Ullensaker. One may also refer to trondelag. A quarter of the food land being redisposed goes to housing, while another quarter goes to traffic. The food soil is also used for other purposes. In the future, we have to use that resource for what he's created, to produce more food for more people. The food soil is a national resource. We need to take care of national resources. I'm happy to see that there is now more cultivation here to land, but at the same time one has to remember that it takes many years before this earth is of such quality as it is built down. Soil is the most important production factor we have in food production. Taking care of Norwegian food is at the same time one of the most important steps in our security policy. The degree of self-sufficiency has decreased, and some of the reasons for this are that less food is produced as the area for food production has been lost. This requires action from the Norwegian Governing Body to ensure the basis for Norwegian food production and access to food for the inhabitants. The food soil is thus a national resource and must be managed nationally. In the last few years, the counties have intensified the attention given to the re-disposal of cultivated and arable land in planning processes according to the law on planning and building. By introducing a basic law protection for food, we will also help to achieve more objectives, including: to improve regional planning and densification and better use of land in cities and agglomerations. Everyone knows that we in the Center Party are strong supporters of municipal self-government. At the same time it is in the municipalities that the degradation and re-disposal of the food soil is made. What we see, is that collecting individual decisions in the municipalities, often after pressure from builders, leads to a build-up that is too big. Building down a food soil, it's done forever. Hence, soil protection is the exception to the rule of local self-government for the Centre Party. We all have to remind ourselves that building down a deer with a grained area is a future with fewer bread. Building down a decave that's used for vegetables is building down what according to the Health Directorate needs to eat more. Then there are probably some who ask questions. We in the Center Party are skeptical about expanding Foundation Law too much. Why should this enter the Constitution? I mean it's a simple answer to that. Building down a deck is done forever. In many other respects, a new plurality and new politicians can change the decisions that have been made. But when it comes to land degradation, it's irreversible. A fundamental promise of the food soil is therefore, as the majority sees it, necessary for consideration of our future generations. With that, I recommend the proposal for a decision by the majority of the committee. We want to make a change so that the second sentence of the first paragraph of Section 112 is replaced by the following: ‘The natural resources, including food resources, shall be made available from a long-term and comprehensive approach that ensures this right also for future generations.’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e1254	The draft Constitution that we are now discussing is about the amendment of § 112, about the protection of food resources. And let's say, it's incredibly important to work to protect the food resources in the country, so I also agree with our nephew Kåre Willoch in this. More and more people see the importance of it. In particular, it is important in our country, which is so far north, and which has so little arable land. Only 3 pst. the land area of Norway may be used as cultivated land and only 30 pst. of which, in turn, is suitable as cereals. But then reality is that most cities and agglomerations in Norway are surrounded by cultivated land. Much of the best soil is where the expansion press is the largest. A nearby example is Gardermoen, the airport in Akershus, Norway’s main airport, which was located in one of Norway’s best cereal fields and flower meadows. Therefore, there are major challenges and a very difficult balance between different considerations when the desire to conserve land resources conflicts with the desire for a comprehensive development around existing cities, agglomerations and central communications hubs. Therefore, land cultivation has sometimes had to give way to the necessary social development. Fortunately, restocking of cultivated land has fallen significantly in recent years because of the focus on this issue. I refer to the national soil protection strategy, which was adopted at Stortinget in 2015, and where it is an objective that the annual re-disposal of cultivated land should be below 4000 dekar by 2020. I would also like to point out that in 2017 there were 22 700 decorators approved for new cultivation, so the cultivation has been larger than in recent years, which means that the total agricultural area is now increasing, unlike in the past. The Right Party and the Progressive Party believe that today’s legislation provides sufficient protection for food resources. These resources already have a protection under the Basic Law § 112, which reads: ‘Everyone has the right to an environment which ensures health and to a nature in which production capacity and diversity are maintained. The resources of nature shall be made available on the basis of a long-term and comprehensive consideration to safeguard this right also for the posterity. Citizens have the right to know about the state of the natural environment and the effects of planned and implemented interventions in nature, in order to safeguard their rights under the preceding subparagraphs. The authorities of the State shall take action to implement those basic principles.’.» So the food resources are part of nature's resources in line with other natural resources. As stated in the Basic Law, the resources of nature shall be made available on the basis of a long-term and comprehensive consideration which guarantees the right to productive capacity also for the offspring. The right hand and the right hand side are of the opinion that there is no aim to get the most clarifications into the Basic Law so that it becomes so extensive. We have great respect for the Constitution as it is, and believe that today's legislation provides adequate protection for the food resources, we just have to follow up. We will vote against the amendment to the Basic Law § 112.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e1284	First of all, I have a quote: ‘Earth conservation is about securing today’s population and our descendants the opportunity to grow their own food on their own land.’ The quote is on the government's website, and I could not agree more. And it stands in quite sharp contrast to the government party's attitude to the seriousness we're discussing here today, about the value of cultivated land and the fundamental law of that value. Norway is, as many have mentioned here today, a country with a small agricultural area. It's just traveling around the country – most people have. There's a lot of ground around the Oslo soil, and there's something in trombone layers, on the Jären, etc. We know this. About 3 pst. is cultivated land – 3 pst. Think about that number. Of course, in order to ensure this food production, it is absolutely essential that we call about the food soil we have. It's just about 30 pst. suitable for growing food grain – 30 pst. of the 3 pst. It's not much. There are no EU countries with a lower proportion of cereal production than we have. 90 pst. of our agricultural area is used to grow animal feed, which is going through animals before we eat it. The total agricultural area in Norway has increased slightly. It has been mentioned here today. In the last 25 years, or something like that, it has increased somewhat, but the best soil – and that is an important point – where we can produce cereals, potatoes, vegetables, etc., has been reduced. That's an important point. The explanation is, of course, that there has become something more inward-looking, but above all that we have built down. I am absolutely sure that the Committee I am in, the Committee on Transport and Communications, has been responsible for too much, at least in the past. There are also several of the other committees in this room that have been responsible for it. We build down, we build out, we divide up, we fill in. In that case, food soil near built-up areas disappears, where there is the greatest pressure on the earth. It takes a long, long time to build up soil. We can only imagine that if organic matter is layered with maybe one millimeter a year, it takes a thousand years to get one meter. But it's not even that much. The soil we're growing now has been formed after the last ice age. It's taken thousands of years to build this up. It may take a very short time to rebuild it. So when we know that it takes thousands of years to build up the Earth, we should manage our Earth in a thousand-year perspective. We have to think about the descendants. We're going to live off this earth. We also have to think about that there are many other organisms that we are also responsible for, that live in this earth. The UN FAO estimates that about 33 p.m. world food soils have already deteriorated due to erosion, contamination or poor agricultural practices. It is not uncommon at all, and it often leads to packaging of soil — dense soil — and loss of organic matter. In Europe, some 110 decaves of food are being built down an hour. These figures are taken from 2015. Then the UN had an international Earth Year. They were to make the world aware of how important soil was, and how important it was to take care of cultivated land. For this planet’s food resources — soil resources — are threatened by many teams. So, of course, there's a lot of reasons to take care of the food soil. I'll mention someone: Soil protection is solidarity. Why is that solidarity? When only 3 pst. of the land area in Norway is cultivated, there is, of course, solidarity, because we have to import much of the food we need, at least in the form of power feed for our own animals. It's related to the next point. Soil protection, taking care of our soil, is a prerequisite for growing food on local resources. It's more climate friendly, we know that short-range food is, with less transport. Everyone's got this school lesson now. In addition, it is of course more environmentally friendly not to import power feed into animals, sometimes even from other continents. Soil protection also ensures an important carbon stock. This has emerged in recent years. So the soil is very important for bonding carbon. There's another point that many people don't think about: soil protection is also climate adaptation. Why is that? Yes, because the earth seems like a fungus in the terrain. It's pores in the ground if it's well managed. It collects water, and so it's a buffer against the flood. I can ram up a little bit more, I, because I have time for that: The soil is a sewage treatment plant. Think about it, too. Soil can remove environmental toxins and prevent them from spreading into groundwater – it is important, it – and thus be absorbed by plants. And finally, soil protection is, of course, nature protection. It is the protection of biodiversity. You don't think about it that much. You might think that there's earthworm there; I think the representative Lundtigen has mentioned it sometimes. Yes, there is earth's earth's earth's earth's earth's earth's earth's earth's earth's It's important. But in a handful of soil, there are more organisms than there are humans on Earth. Think about it. Soil is important – hugely important. The Earth is built up in different structures, and it is formed over time. That's why cultural landscapes have developed. It's also valuable. A varied cultural landscape has its own values for the species that live there, and it gives us a great experience. Why should soil protection then enter the Constitution? We have other laws. It has been mentioned many times today. To be honest, it's been a little bit like picking what fits into the Constitution, and what doesn't fit into the Constitution – a little from political considerations and points of view. That's the way it is, of course. However, as far as soil and soil protection are concerned, I think that it is essential that a resource like this represented by the earth should be included in our strongest national law of principle – precisely to ensure that this is taken into account under all our considerations and judgements, whether as planners, municipal politicians or representatives here in the Chamber. Then it's very sad, almost incredible, to hear the views of the right parties on this proposal. They indicate that most cities and agglomerations in Norway are surrounded by cultivated land. They recognize that. They also recognize that much of the best soil is where the expansion press is the largest. Among other things, mentioned by the last speaker, the representative Bente Mathisen from the Right. At the same time, they conclude that there is no explicit need for specific constitutional protection of soil resources. It is gross and it is a strange conclusion taking into account the importance of this resource base. But it really does not surprise me, because when a reader through former Minister of Agriculture Dale's reply to the proposals for representatives that were discussed here in the Chamber about a year ago, in February 2018, one sees that he answers that something is either going on in this field, or that one should reject the intensive proposals, among other things. this with the strengthening of the opposition institute. Many view objections as looting and embezzlement, a plague and a plague. I have already mentioned in a separate interview with the Minister of Local Affairs that I agree that the opposition institute can be streamlined, that there may be joint opinions from state authorities, etc. That's great. That's good. But it has an important role to play. This often ignores the right parts. They want liberalisation, and unfortunately it is also expressed through the position on this issue. A common objection to a more consistent soil protection policy is that Norway has large areas of arable land. That's what we have in reserve, it's what they say. Is that right? According to the Norwegian Institute of Forests and Landscapes, some 30 million dekars are referred to. But unfortunately, this area is very poor for food production, and at least not for intensive food production. This is very important to hold on to; this is not the goal for the goal. If we lose food in Lier by expanding it there, it's not the same thing to get a little bit of paved ground up below the mountain. It's something completely different. We must take this with us for the future. Under 2 pst. of the unused arable land is situated in areas with a climate suitable for the cultivation of food grain. One could then have hoped that far more people here in the hall had closed as much as I have done between cabbage plants or strawberries in the oak – I have done that from growing up – and known the earth between just hands, known the value, the power of the earth and the growth potential that is in the soil. Then perhaps the attitudes had changed a little here in the hall – while thinking that it would be absolutely essential for mankind's future to have food, but also for the myriads of species living above and below the Earth's surface. I want to remind you that it takes thousands of years to build up the earth, while it can take a few hours to build it down with modern tools. A space for soil protection in the Constitution would give clear signals, a anchoring and a national guidance that had taken over just this fact. I'm sorry that the right parties are blocking this greeting to our descendants that a foundation law would mean.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e1351	There is a broad political consensus that we should have food production in Norway and that we should have active agriculture in all parts of the country. But if we're to discharge our responsibility to produce food, we have to be careful and conscious about what is a prerequisite for food production, our food soil. In an increasingly evolving society, managing responsibility becomes an increasingly important pillar, and for the Christian People's Party, soil protection is an important part of this management responsibility. Managing responsibility is about securing future generations the opportunities and rights that we now have. It's about value creation, and it's about food security. Soil degradation, as many have already experienced, is an irreversible process. Over the past 50 years, over one million deer have been disposed of in Norway, and most of the re-disposal has gone down on the best food soil, i.e. cultivated land. Cultivated and arable land is a limited resource. There are different estimates of how long it takes to produce soil of such high quality that it qualifies for food, but some indicate as high a number as a thousand years. In view of this, the re-disposal of food for other purposes is a matter that should not be easily addressed. So we know that something redisposable is inevitable for infrastructure, such as railway, road, and other transport projects, such as: – we know this – and that also means the Christian People’s Party. There will be cases where re-disposal is absolutely necessary, but we have to have a clear expectation that large amounts of food soil will not be re-disposaled because we have to choose the simplest solution. So re-disposal of food soils is not something we can take lightly. It's one of our most important resources, and how we manage this, is an inheritance we give to later generations. For every deacon that is redisposed, we lose a deacon of food forever. Therefore, the Christian People's Party supports the Constitutional Law, so that the protection of food soils is given an explicit place in the Constitution. The proposers believe that the management of the basis for food production represented by the food resources is values of such a long-term nature that they justify being explicitly mentioned in the Constitution. Then I hear the arguments against legislating this, and I will be clear on and will, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, acknowledge that one can of course be concerned with soil protection, even if one is not necessarily for a specific constitutional provision. It is legitimate to prejudice the importance of soil protection while believing that this is best addressed by sectoral legislation. It should also be recognised. That's why I want to express some understanding of the arguments that are moving towards the fact that it's not necessarily in our constitutional tradition to enter sectoral policy objectives, as it can be said that it's being added here. For this type of issue, ordinary sectoral policies and legislation can also be addressed – that is quite right. But with equal rights, it can be argued that because the administration of the law must be long-term, and because the degradation of food resources is irreversible, and because food security and sustainable food management must be seen in a generation perspective, this is so important that it defends its own constitutional protection. This is where the Christian People's Party has landed. That is why we support the proposal. In addition, we know that agriculture performs many functions, including food production. It's about recreation, ecological functions, wildlife, climate and environment. It's about having a consciousness about how we manage the soil and green structures from a generation perspective. This is particularly important in the future when we also need to balance this with all the necessary expansions and large-scale transport projects. We know it's going to be built. It must be built, and it must be built, because this too is a responsibility we have for future generations: that we build and maintain efficient and modern roads and the railways – a good transport system for those who come after us. But it has to be done with the necessary awareness that re-disposal of food soil is irreversible. That is why the Christian People's Party supports the basic bill on the protection of food resources, and we believe that this is a good proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e1374	There have been many good contributions today in support of the basic legislation of the small and vulnerable food resources that Norway has, and I agree with the content of those contributions. Soil protection is not sectoral policy. The protection of food soil is the protection of a vital resource that Norway has. From a longer preparedness perspective, when we look at the needs to provide the population with a minimum of food security and the climate challenges we face, SV believes that the protection of food soils must be incorporated into the Constitution. It is quite right that it can be interpreted into the Constitutional provisions on the environment, but until now this protection has not been strong enough. There has been a government strategy to reduce the pressure on soil protection very little, but at the same time we have a government that opens up for municipalities to have greater freedom to redispatch and circumvent important considerations, such as soil protection. There is now a need to expand, so that people can make their travels, either collectively, on bicycles or on foot. Then we stand up in dilemmas many places about how this can be done so that people can live environmentally and climate-friendly and also have something to put in their mouths that we can have some control and control on the sea. It's probably almost just for the railway I think soil protection should be able to give way, because the railway has such a rigid structure, and it has to come forward – it provides climate and social benefits for people so much that it has to come forward. On cars, there's a steering wheel. They can swing. It's going to be possible to go outside of the food field. It's also possible to make good collective solutions for non-walking residential areas, so that people have the opportunity to move collectively, and so that you don't eat bit by bit all the time. That's what happens now, sail if it happens at a bit slower pace than it did in some periods before. To the land reserve that Norway has and that the representative Arne Nävra said: I just want to underline what Nävra said, that most of the land that we have in reserve is either in climate zones where it is difficult to grow from before, or in ants. Then we're in other dilemmas, which means that we can't take one step to get food in our mouths if we're at risk with that measure, which means that it can be very incomprehensible where it's possible to grow food in Norway. The protection of the water, whether it's in the sea or in our freshwater sources, and the protection of the food soil is the most important thing we can do to ensure our population's security for food in the future. Is that something that history has taught us, it must be that being able to secure its people's food is the greatest task a state can have. That's absolutely necessary. Of course, it is absolutely necessary to avoid the terrible consequences of not having food, but it is also the source of major conflicts and large movements of people. We're going to experience negative changes as a result of climate change. It may not be worst in Norway, but perhaps elsewhere, where the ability to grow food is reduced. It will make our soil resources even more valuable, both for us seas and others, so that we can produce more food seas, for our own population, and will not need to import as much food from those who will then need their food sails. This is a proposal that we will probably come back to in the future. I really hope that the consciousness around this is increasing. The debate we have had today shows that the Christian People's Party is also behind this. I hope that the Christian People's Party will bring this into the government, once they have become a government party, because this is also about the daily policy, where on one hand you say that you want to protect it through the Constitution because it is so important, while on the other hand you are involved in giving a greater release and giving in to the pressure that many municipalities are subjected to, such as. Mr Bjørke correctly said that it is difficult to say no locally, because the pressure is so great. That's why it's important that the Christian People's Party now join in and stand firm for this in government and ensure that the slightly more detached freedom of dispensation in this area and in other natural values is not allowed to continue, and that we actually have to tighten this up, so that, through national policies, we maintain these national values in a way that enables our descendants to use them as well as we have done.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e1393	This is an important proposal. Just as the water in the sea must have food quality, so the earth must have food quality. That's what we're talking about. We don't get food from anywhere other than the sea and the earth. But soil and food are not the same. That's two different things. Earth is everything – rubble and bit. Food is soil that has a quality that gives food quality. It takes thousands of years to get the fertility, the nutrient content and the structure needed to get food quality. The climate is crucial, the amount of water is crucial, and – not least – the carbon and humus content in the soil is crucial for what we call food soils. Its smaller humus in the earth, its poorer soil, its lesser fertility. The representative Nävra said that soil could be a cleaning medium or that soil is a cleaning medium. Yes, it may be, but when soil starts to become a cleaning medium to clean up humidities, it doesn't get food quality anymore. Therefore, one should be very careful about using sewage sludge, e.g., and taking it out of the food field, so that a content in the soil allows the plants that grow there to easily absorb that content — among others. of heavy metals – which cause a person to have a deteriorated food quality, at least for products that humans are to eat directly. The right and the right parties state in the position that the agricultural area "is now increasing as opposed to the previous" and that that is the reason for opposing the proposal. Firstly, the destruction of food soil leads to the disappearance of the best soil, with the best fertility. To the extent that you're doing something new, it's on the edge, marginal soil, that can't be compared to the best soil, that's being built up. Because what's now being cultivated is marginal. The best soil has been cultivated many years ago – to say it very diplomatically. Otherwise, the whole thing that the right hand side and the propulsion part here represent, has the wrong number. Government parties should be aware of this. Agricultural land in Norway is falling every year as a result of land growing again. It no longer produces food on it. The reason for this is that the profitability of using the land is so weak in large parts of the country that we have a falling agricultural area — in a situation where the population is increasing. The amount of land that you have, the area that you have at your disposal per capita, is getting worse and worse every year. Preparedness decreases every year. And in addition, when the crops stand still, these problems further intensify. It is important to get legal protection of the soil. Whether or not we get to this bill change – it looks bad, as the Right Party and the Advance Party have intended to vote. However, the most important thing in the future is the ability of local authorities to regulate the food areas around cities and agglomerations to food soils. In the same way as regulating areas for outdoor, residential or commercial purposes, a land that is a food soil must be regulated for food purposes, in order to demonstrate that these areas are occupied. There's nothing at the disposal of others. Why has this become so central, the question of our food resources? Well, that's because the social goal of agricultural policy, that's enough and safe food for the population, goes from bad to worse. In a normal year, it is approx. 42 pst. of the calories that we as residents eat, from agricultural food. It comes from Norwegian plants. The drought that we experienced last summer leads to a 30-35 pst level of maritime supply for the period from summer 2018 to summer 2019. 30-35 pst. of the calories eaten by humans are based on plants produced in Norway after the last drought. It's much, much more serious than what people take in. It is still possible to obtain boats with food — cereals or whatever — from abroad. So the people don't know this reality, but it's a reality that we as leaders have to take over. That is why we need to discuss this on a factual, professional and scientific basis. That basis is what I have now referred to – so seriously it all depends on. I just want to end by saying that food soil is a national resource, which needs to be managed nationally. It is then important to elaborate § 112, the most important flag paragraph of the Constitution, namely the ecological and environmental paragraph, by getting the protection of food resources into the paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e1412	I just thought I'd add a few comments, especially after the article on Arne Nävra, where most of the things that could be said from SV's side, were said – apart from a few things that I want to address in this context. This is a debate for the long lines on which Mr Gruvan was involved. Taking care of arable land, taking care of the soil resources we have, has a generation perspective, and one may have to look further ahead than just the next generations. That's one of the assignments we have. Taking care of land, sea, forest and water is going to be entirely decisive because whether it is actually going to be functioning communities also in the future. Globally, it's 50 pst. of arable land parched or destroyed. According to the statistics, grain production worldwide has started to stabilise for the first time in the last two years, and an estimate that for the first time grain production will decline globally. Barley, durum wheat, maize, rice, millet – that is, cereals that are crucial for the world’s food production – depends on productive soil, and that production is now declining. It is really a big alarm button one has pressed. Developments in Norway are that more and more arable land is leaving production for different reasons — either because of agricultural policy or because of expansion. It's a very dangerous development, even from a national perspective, because the food supply we have today is very dependent on the soil of other countries. We are now seizing about the same amount of land abroad to supply our food production in Norway as we use land in Norway. In a world where more and more of the soil is plucked out and left out of operation, it is not obvious that the dependence we have on imports of feed and various types of addition to Norwegian food production is falling. So, taking care of the adorable earth we have is going to be one of the determining elements for whether we can be self-sufficient in the future. Besides, it would be solidarity not to praise farmers in countries with poorer economies than Norway, by confiscating their land for their food supply. Instead, making us dependent on our earth would be solid in itself. So there's both a national interest perspective and a solidarity perspective in this. So one might say that the problem here is that it would make things more difficult with planning in municipalities and counties, and for the state, when one is going to carry out a large transport project and a development project. That would make it harder. But that's hard, because we have the possibility of dispensing, because then one will always have such a possibility to destroy land to build. I would say that this is one of the most important issues, both in a constitutional and in the daily political perspective. Bringing down that part of the soil that's going out of production, raising it and raising it about what we have, is one of the big questions we're facing in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e1427	In 2010, a public investigation, carried out by the then Red-Green Government, on climate challenges and Norway’s adaptation to them came. In this investigation, it was thought that global warming and increased temperature in Norway would allow for more production of cereals and potatoes. Both the summer we now have behind us, with extreme drought, and the summer before there again, in 2017, it is not necessarily the case that with global warming we can experience an extended growing season in Norway. The risk of increased floods, sprawl, extreme rainfalls over a short period of time and droughts will also affect Norwegian food production – as we have seen in the last two summers. What's more important than taking care of the food that gives us the food that we all depend on every day? As several of the other representatives have been involved, we are becoming increasingly dependent on other countries producing food for us when we build down our best food soil. We still have purchasing power to compete on the world market. But how solid is this when we lay houses, asphalt and other things over our own food soil and the important resources we have? Experience in recent years has shown that we need a stronger protection for the food soil – not a weaker one, as we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e1436	I hope that when the Christian People's Party was inside this and had a certain understanding that this could be called sectoral policy, it was because one in the newly started cooperative government had to be a bit kind. I mean, there's something that's not sectoral policy, it's soil protection. In fact, soil protection is something of the most decisive we can do to secure Norway for the afterlife. When the Committee's members from the Right and the Progress Party as the basis for not going into this Constitutional proposal indicate that most cities and agglomerations in Norway are surrounded by cultivated land, and that much of the best soil is where the expansionary pressure is the largest, I feel that that's exactly what's why it's so important that we actually base soil protection. That's exactly what's the challenge -- that we know that there will be pressure on this earth, and we only have the good food earth. It's a paradox when the same government will ban the cultivation of all kinds of ants. There is no doubt that some ants should not grow up, but ants may be so many. I have a lot of contact with developers. It's about the difficulty of center development in cities and other places with a stronger soil protection. There are many entrepreneurs who say that they would like to find alternatives. Why don't they? Why would they rather press for re-regulating land? Well, because they're afraid that other builders will go that way, and then they'll lose the competition. With a stronger soil protection and a clearer code, I am sure that one can develop towns and cities at the same time as one can take care of cultivated land. It's disappointing that one does not take advantage of this opportunity to legislate one of the most important things in Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e1446	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e1462	It is a pleasure to step in as a case rapporteur in a case that deals with the fundamental law fixing of something as important as the right of all persons. The case was promoted by SV and travels in depth due to a debate about what kind of country we are going to give from us to the next generation. In my basic view of ideology, freedom is the same as universal law. It's a perfect picture of what I believe in: the right to move freely – a right that is equal to everyone. All-men's rights are an invaluable asset to all the Nordics, and all of us agree to use nature and open-air areas as we like. How much your family earns, or who you're related to, doesn't count when it's about the use of nature. It makes the right of all persons a symbol of what Norway is today, a country where the people own the community's resources, and where everyone – not just the few – can experience what Norwegian nature has to offer. All-man rights are, in themselves, the closest to a Norwegian cultural heritage. Today, access to open-air justice is primarily a matter of ordinary people, but in the past, the rights of all persons were also part of and guaranteed the basis of life for the Nordics who were sunk and harvested by nature. I am not accusing any parties here in the Chamber of being against all-man rights, even though the right hand side and the Central Party seem to be voting against the Constitution later today. However, I have to be allowed to say that it is good to see that the Workers' Party and SV in this case stand side by side with large nationwide movements: the Tourist Association, the Norwegian Free Air Life and the Norwegian Hunter's and Fisher's Association – to name a few. Now, when we're going in to secure all-man rights through the Constitution, it's to ensure it for all generations to come, as the right of return was guaranteed a century ago by forward-looking politicians at the time. The basic law protection thus becomes a safety valve. For us in the Workers' Party, a strong right of ownership and a strong right of all persons balances each other in a good way, and both uphold basic individual rights. In order to ensure that balance also in the future, the right of all persons should also be included in the Constitution. We cannot say and predict the challenges that in the future need to be adapted to this balance – just as in 1909 it was not known which forces would later fight against the right of repatriation. This is why we believe it is important that the right of all persons should be given the permanent status of the Norwegian community and Norwegian legislation that can only give basic legislation – not to change the power relationship between ownership and all-manhood, but to determine the inherited rights of use of Norwegian nature. All-man rights will be an additional pillar of Norwegian society and a protection against rapid and random societal changes in the future as well. When I was in Åre on a ski holiday last winter, we went to what was called by locals as the finest ski island in Central Sweden. Great was the surprise when there was a running guard and demanded 80 kroner from each of us in the turn to allow us to go further into the woods and up the mountain. The discussion theme that evening became natural enough if we knew about similar in Norway, and a Google search showed us that there are also examples of similar here in the country. The desire to introduce different payment solutions underlines the need to give all-person rights the extra weight that a basic law will give. It is then avoided that a single decision will be the beginning of a development that carries in one direction no one really wants. So back to the proposal we have to deal with, where a number of proposals for Constitutional Texts and Alternatives have been launched that establish the importance of defending and preserving this right. I believe that several of the proposals that have been launched meet the comments that the minority have put themselves behind. For example, proposal 2B, that the rights of all persons should not be revoked, seems to me to be an excellent and excellent opportunity for all parties to establish that they are on the ground of the open-air organisations and guarantee both property rights and rights of all persons at the same time. There are many freedoms and values fixed in the Constitution as they exist now. A fundamental law fixation, which is one of the options proposed, would not imply any locking to a detailed content of the term ‘all-man’, but could, on the contrary, be adapted to changing environmental and social conditions if necessary. When, however, the minority in the Committee does not seem to be involved in any of the options, we can well also see in this case that there is disagreement along the economic divide. I have never owned as much as a square metre of this country, but yet I have always felt at home in the woods and in the mountains. I may also do so after today, but I also hope that I can do so when I might become a retired person on a beautiful day.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e1490	Should the representative make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e1495	Yes, I take up the proposal from the Workers' Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e1500	Then the representative Kristian Torve has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e1505	I would first like to express my support for the wish of the proposers to establish both the importance of the right of all people in Norwegian society and the intention that it should continue to have a central place and be a prevailing principle. I also think that several of our citizens could have been aware that when they freely use nature for their many different activities, it is precisely the right of all people to form the basis for it. On behalf of the Advancement Party and the Right, I would like to stress that if we do not go into the proposed wording in the Constitution, it is not because we are not concerned with the Allemansrechten – I would say the opposite. First of all, we believe that it is well maintained today and that the law on outdoors clearly points to the responsibility of politicians to follow up. We believe that this is best ensured through democratic processes and political treatment in which it should be ensured. It is a good principle that such a right should be safeguarded and guaranteed where it may be challenged, and it is in the regional and local planning process. Secondly, we would also point out that even if the intention is good, the wording proposed is vague and unprecise. This will mean that by incorporating the proposed wording into the Constitution, one will leave the courts to decide how far these apply. For our part, we believe that the different shades that must and must be maintained in the balance between social development, ownership and all-manhood rights are best managed in good democratic work around the country, where citizens and local politicians can engage. Allocating rights shall continue to be a fundamental and important principle. We're going to make sure that it's followed up, and the reminder goes to the local politicians that they have a duty to follow up on this in their work around Norwegian states and municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e1516	The centre party is a strong all-man right-wing fan. All rights ensure that people can get out of lis and mountains without obstacles, so that they can run an open-air life to promote good public health. In general, most people have a clear idea of what universal rights are. All-man rights are a freedom for all, that everyone within the framework of the laws, and in the interest of nature and the landowner, can be able to run outdoors in various forms. He has laid the foundation for people to be active and get good natural experiences, and he has laid the foundation for much of the tourism we know today. But in the same way that we fence about all-man rights, we also arrest about private property rights. He has laid the groundwork for generations of people who have had a life of independence, work and income. In Norway, the General Court has been vindicated by ancient claims. In the law of the open air, the right of all persons has had its place every year to ensure that the court is used. At the same time, laws have been used to resolve the conflicts that may arise. From the proposers it is said that: ‘all human rights are under daily pressure from landowners, builders and the public, both in the coastal zone and in the mountains. Consequently, it may no longer be taken for granted.’ Taking a little dive in newspapers and nets and looking at what kind of pressure it is against all-man rights, it's pretty much a struggle in winter whether it's good to walk on foot and with a dog in the run-up ski jumps around, and based on the practice of all-man rights, it's not that good. At the same time, it is important that we have a good balance between the fundamental right and the universal right. It must be that the landowners see the benefits of taking care of their property, and make sure that they are for the good of all men, so that most people really benefit from being there. The pressure against all-man rights, or the desire to get all-man rights into the Constitution, is also a desire to weaken the right to property. For a number of years, the same proposers have tried to weaken the right of ownership of those who have been partying around the country. The centre party does not want an uncritical extension of all-man rights. We've seen several examples of one starting up with organized commercial activity on another's behalf. When people use the property of other peoples with their own profit for the eye, we think it is contrary to the Constitutional paragraph on private ownership. I think it helps to weaken and not strengthen the rights of all people. Once again, we have faith in the local government. Get people across fences, fences and other obstacles that make it difficult to experience nature, whether it's in beach areas or other places, we expect people to report. We have promises and clear driving rules, and through the work in the municipality with spatial plans and other plans, we can arrange how this is to be handled. This case goes back to the Central Party principle that we cannot lift too many cases into the Constitution, and we support the majority of them in the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e1536	Nature is for everyone. Allemansrecht is one of the most important values we have as a society – and Nordics are a people on the move. The right to move freely in the field without physical barriers is one of the things that distinguish us from many other countries. All-man rights in Norway are derived from the rule of law, a tradition of the century, and it is a collective term of justice that everyone has to be in nature regardless of who owns the land. The right of universal access consists of the three main elements of the right to move, residency and harvest. We get trips on foot and on ski, we can ride, we can ride, we can ride, we can tent, we can swim, we can have boat life, we can pick berries and mushrooms or we can fish for leisure in sea and inland waters. The right applies primarily in the field but also in the winter period on cultivated land, and it also applies in regulated areas. All-men's right, as it is currently regulated by the Outdoors Act of 1957, with some subsequent changes, has helped shape us as a society and as an individual. The possibilities of movement, harvesting and experience it provides are crucial for us. The fact that everyone can use nature, reap it and move freely independently of private ownership is such a good thing that it appears unintelligible. The rights of all persons have contributed to the smoothing of the financial differences. In earlier times, the so-called right of use, the right to harvest in the field, could mean the difference between life and death for poor people. In our time, the universal right is a symbol of freedom and equivalency for all the inhabitants of the country. It builds on community and binds the people together in some common experiences. The awareness that the right to use nature is a value that is independent of ownership also reinforces the perception that this country is for everyone. Many users of all-man rights are also themselves landowners and will therefore have an understanding and great benefit of this right. Today, the rights of all people may seem to be on the rise in Norway. But both in the beach zone and in the mountains it is under pressure every day from both landowners, builders and the public. All-man rights do not in themselves prevent the commercial use of the land or the use of land for the development of roads, railways, etc., but the extent of the forms of activity, scarcer land resources, increased population, conflicts in the coastal zone and, as we heard from the case-rapporteur, questions of payment for the use of nature are nevertheless examples of conditions which in total may threaten the natural basis of all-man rights as well as the possibility of exploiting all-man rights in the manner to which we have been accustomed. So all rights cannot be taken for granted. That is why we believe in SV that the time has come to legislate such a fundamental constitutional freedom for Norway. That was why SV also promoted this constitutional proposal in 2015, which was the year of outdoor life. The basic law will protect against rapid and random changes. Property law already enjoys strong constitutional protection and protection under international legal rules such as the European Convention on Human Rights. Where ownership is fundamental, it should also be the right of all persons. Since nature is the basis of all human life, the natural basis must be managed on its own premises, with a view to preserving the future generations. That the obligation to provide such protection is already laid down in the Constitution § 112 is also of great importance in relation to the right of all persons. At the same time, fundamental law-making of all-man rights will require all legislative and administrative decisions to take due account of the constitutional provisions and to be within the legal limits set by them. Other European countries do not have the same all-man rights as we do in Norway. I noticed that myself when I was in England last summer. Many places in nature were marked by statements such as ‘keep off’ and ‘private countries’. However, many countries have legislation that guarantees the diversity of the population access to nature and the right to use private property for recreational purposes. The interpretation of a new basic law on the rights of all persons must be based on its main content as it is at the time of adoption in accordance with the general rules of the law on the open air and other relevant legislation. A fundamental law on the rights of all persons must be interpreted and applied in the light of the protection of fundamental law for nature, health and the environment. The assumption is always that the activity carried out on the basis of the right of all persons must be carried out with due care and care. In addition, it is limited by legislation and regulations on natural diversity, water resources, motor traffic and others. In a survey of the parties before the 2017 Greening elections conducted by the Landsförbund of the Free Air Councils, the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Left, the Green Party, Red and, of course, SV yes to the question of the fundamental law fixing of all-man rights. The fact that the Central Party today goes away from its clear election promise to the open air people is something I expect that we will get an explanation of in the course of the debate. What has changed since 2017? The Right Party and the Christian People's Party did not respond to the investigation, or unwittingly, while the Advance Party clearly refused to legislate on all-man rights. But perhaps the government's largest party, Right, could have borrowed ear to former mayor of Oslo, Erling Lae, from the Right, who wrote in a newspaper post not long ago: ‘The founding law must contain the main rights and values on which the Norwegian society is founded. Allocating rights are such a fundamental value.» Allemannsrecht is one of the most Norwegian things we have. Think so great it is that in our country everyone has the right to travel and be out in nature regardless of who owns the land! It makes our finest experiences completely free, they're something we have in common, and they give us a fill to cope with a hectic everyday life. The Court of All gives us a right, but it also gives us an obligation to walk considerately in nature. Let's hang about this symbol of both freedom and community. The right to use nature is independent of ownership because it belongs to us all.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e1569	Everyone's right is for me freedom. I was one of the initiators of this constitution proposal, and I've worked a lot on it. It's because I have a clear awareness of how important all-man rights in Norway have been to shape us as countries and people. It's done something about how we look at ourselves seas, on the neighbor, on all those who have a perfectly marine right to move in the woods, in open spaces, even over cultivated land when it's harvested. This is one of the most obvious Norwegian values, which has also shaped us as individuals and as a society – and it has shaped us well! This has meant that the difference between people has been smaller. This has meant that even we who grew up as housekeepers, thought that yes, the forest was mine – just as Hans Børli writes in his poem «We own the woods» – that if we had never owned a tree, we owned the forests. And the jam was like that, too, when we met him who owned the forest, out in the woods and sat around a fire, we sat there equivalent and talked to each other as if we were equal. We could freely use the forest, and we didn't have to be afraid because we didn't own it. This did something with the view of us seas, and that we were assimilated after all, sailing for some owner and some not owned. We also see that today when we meet people out, whether they're skiing or on foot, whether they're on the beach or where they are, we're talking to each other in a completely different way than what we're doing. We say hi and get to know people in a completely different way than when we meet in other contexts. So it shapes us not only as a society, but also as an individual. We're kind of at our best, pretty much, when we exercise universal rights. There are people who abuse it, who throw garbage and destroy and that -- that's it -- but in general this helps to develop the best in us as individuals. This is such a fundamental value and such a great and inalienable freedom that I am very surprised that the Storting does not want to attach this to the Constitution. This is a constituent value of how we have thought about people living in this country. Regardless of ownership, we can use it. It is not in conflict with ownership at all, as someone is trying to pretend. Ownership rights are attached to the Constitution – SV is completely for it to be attached to the Constitution. This doesn't move on any of the things of the relationship there, it just protects everyone's right. So I'm quite surprised at what the Central Party argues with in this case, especially because, as the representative Haltbrecken was up and correctly remembered, the Central Party in the election campaign promised that this was they for, because this was an important value, and it does not conflict with ownership. But I see in the remarks that the Centre Party writes that on the basis of this Constitutional proposal, it is ‘important not to have an uncritical extension of all-man rights’, or ‘to extend all-man rights uncritically in view of new forms of movement’. This is not an ‘uncritical extension of universal service’, this is a confirmation of today’s situation; this is a confirmation of today’s legal status. What this means is that if someone wants to weaken the right of all persons, it must be tested against the provisions of the Basic Law and the wording, and if you want to weaken the right of all persons, it cannot be done in a single set of elections. Then there must be one big thing where the proposals are promoted, and another big deal that in that case weakens the right of all people. That's the protection of the rights of all people we want to give. This is not an ‘extension of universal service’. So it's wrong, it's taken out of the loose air as a counter-argument. And no one uses all-man's rights more than the landowners' sea. They use the universal right most of all. So I think that's an argument that doesn't stand at all. A representative from the centre party was up and said it was a little difficult to see where this all-man's right was threatened. Yes, then I can ask the representative to take a trip along the beach son of Oslofjord. There is a real threat to all-men's rights, including by the local maritime administration, which grants permission for construction in the coastal zone, or which turns the blind eye to when it happens. It's important to people. It is important for people who may not have the money to travel on vacation, but who may have a place to go with their kids when they want to take a bath or a fishing trip or to enjoy nature – very important! Here there's a lot of people, so building down the beach sona here, is a serious attack on all-man rights and on the possibility of living an eel nest, fine life sail if you don't have a lot of money to travel on vacation elsewhere. This is a very good distribution policy, and I'm very surprised that the Center Party doesn't see it – very surprised that the Center Party doesn't see it. Then the representative Harberg was also up and argued that one of the reasons for not voting for this was that there was vague and unpresis in the proposals. Here, first of all, there are several options to choose from. I would probably have liked the words that are the same as the words in books and in new Norwegian, which are called the "right of universal access to the law". I think that is the best wording. But to the consolation of the Right, I can say that whoever has formulated these legislative proposals with me is Jusprofessor Eivind Smith, who has competence in constitutional language. So here there's no reason to be afraid that the wording of any of the proposals that have been made is unpresis or vague or will put the authorities in some kind of problematic situation – if you don't want to weaken all-man rights, and I really hope nobody has thought so. But it remains to be seen whether, from the government's point of view, what we discussed in another case, namely soil protection, is going on with it, and that more and more decisions are going to be taken locally, where the small pieces each of them look small, but in sum they are going to be a weakening either by soil protection or by the universal right. It is now being urbanized. A lot is being built, and more needs to be built around traffic nodes. One of the challenges then is that this expansion should not only take into account that we are not going to build down soil protection, we are going to build so that people can transport themselves climate-friendly, and we also need to ensure that all-man rights are respected, including in these towns, small towns or in the larger urbanised areas. For the rights of all persons, the same applies in the city. For people living in urban or urban areas, all-man rights apply as well. It is then important to take care of paths and roads in open air areas and allow people to live outdoors or to use nature and areas around them in a good way. Then you want to make good living environments. But it remains to be seen whether the government is willing to take care of this in these processes and not only is it concerned with maximizing square meters and property prices in this expansion. There are strong economic interests that can be expected to capitalise on the area currently used and where the rights of all persons apply. It is important to take care of the rights of all people precisely because it has developed some of the best in this society – both as a society and as an individual. So I'm pretty sure this proposal will be adopted at the next big time, because this is a good proposal that no parties in the Great Britain have any reason to worry about. We should just rejoice for the freedom we have, and share in securing it for the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e1590	There were so many good words from the last speaker that I could of course have withdrawn, but then there is also the fact that I don't think there is anyone here in the Chamber who has had so much benefit from the rights of all people that I have had – perhaps with the exception of some landowners, as the representative Andersen also mentioned. But we've also been landowners on the farm I come from, so that's now. I have also travelled a lot around the country in my previous job, in all kinds of hooks in Norwegian nature, and I have also traveled a lot abroad. Then I have had the opportunity to compare. Other representatives have been involved in this: in Norway, we do not meet the signs that we like. may meet in England or in the United States, where it says ‘private property’ or ‘private countries’, and it says: ‘no access. Obviously, it's a huge distinction. This is a value that we're going to be proud of. When I meet foreigners who come to Norway, or when I sail is abroad, there are two things I'm proud of. One is the relatively small differences we have in Norway, and the other is actually all-man rights. The two things are fantastic values of Norwegian society. Both of them are under a certain pressure – we know that, and I will come back to that a little bit. Outdoor life is one of the strongest elements of Norwegian culture and Norwegian cultural tradition – from the nation-building of the 1880s, national romanticism, and, of course, the discussion of independence, to the ‘god on the scoundrel’, I can get into them too. Important parts of what we can call ‘The story of Norway’ are universal access, free access to nature and land and the possibility of free movement there. At the same time, there is another aspect that has emerged in recent years, and that is the health aspect of the possibility of outdoor life. It's absolutely crucial. Had the health budget been seen in the context of the budgets for access to outdoor life, i.e. the preparation of paths, land management, etc., I think there might have been much more money to raise – almost – when transferring from the health budget. It is about billions, enormous amounts, which are health gains from access to nature, and then it is of course important that that approach is as good as possible, and that ensures, among other things, that. the right of all persons. Through that right, it is quite clear that the Nordics have been in a very special situation. It has been great to be able to show it, and it thus gives us the opportunity to travel more or less freely – under responsibility and under certain constraints – in Norwegian nature. If it's across the borders means nothing -- we can go over the fences, go into the next property, we can look at the frontier pine and go into the next property, that's okay. We can pick blueberries and crayons and crayons. It's an amazing wealth that we have to ring. This right is, of course, enshrined in the open-air law we got in 1957, and it sets up certain rights. But a basic law will give an important signal effect, and this we have been in the other issues here, too, about the right to free movement, but also about considerate movement in Norwegian nature. It's just as important to bring it on the way. As I said, I believe that this universal right is one of the finest things about Norway, as I see it. We now have it once so that we can move more or less freely. We have almost the same situation when we are in a bathroom. There it's free of rank and position and class differences, we're literally undressed. In nature, it's also like, with all-man rights, there's no difference in rank and condition, everyone has equal opportunities. It's like the representative, Karin Andersen, said, that this law and this right, which are gradually incorporated, seem smoothing, and a foundational law will make it a little more difficult to rock by the important value that is in society. I would also like to say that in a way, the universal right has shaped us as people in this country, a kind of interaction. We've been able to incorporate it as a customary right, and at the same time, the All-man's right has influenced new generations of Nordics. I think a lot of new Northmen who have come here to the country and are to be integrated have been surprised at the opportunities that lie in all-man rights and have greatly appreciated it. Therefore, the universal right is so valuable that it must be called inalienable, and therefore belongs to it in the Constitution. The Outdoors Act says that if it is within reasonable limits, some taxes can be levied using Norwegian nature. It is an assessment on a case-by-case basis, and we have seen some cases where the commercialisation of Norwegian nature has gone a long way. We should be aware of that, for a “sun” pricing of the processing of Norwegian nature – it could be organisation, parking space, etc. – is quite fine, and a modest or thoughtful exploitation, also commercial, of Norwegian nature is also good. Ecotourism can be good, and wild tourism can be good, but we've seen trends that there's a commercial side of this that's unfortunate. This is the one pressure, the commercialization of the outfield. The other thing mentioned is, of course, the expansion aspect and the disposal of land, not least around squeezed areas like Oslofjorden. We remember what State Council Siv Jensen said just before the election, I think it was in 2013, where she was going to open up too much more. It is a desired policy to make it more liberal for expansion, even in the coastal zone. Then it is not by chance that the powerful organisations behind Norwegian outdoor life and outdoor activities – the Norwegian Tourist Association, the Landsförbund, Norsk Freiluftsliv – all recommend the Stortinget to legislate on all rights. Of course, it's important for them, and you should also remember that these are very large organisations that are powerful spokesmen for the vast majority who want the rights of all to be strengthened. And then it was mentioned here that Norway has a strong ownership right. It is also confirmed by the Constitution, and that is essentially an important point. We see no distinction between public rights on private and public grounds in Norway, and this is what makes it so special. In a sense, it must be said that both ownership and all-man rights are well balanced in Norwegian practice. But we do not have the basic laws of one part, what goes on the public's right to travel in the outland and frozen inland. Both ownership, which SV defends far on the road as it is practised, and all-man rights respect fundamental individual rights, and therefore all-man rights should also be enshrined in the Constitution. What is very disappointing is that the majority does not go for this, we do not get the necessary majority for the change that I think the vast majority of the Norwegian population want. I should like to see that we called about these inalienable values. It's very sad, and perhaps especially – as someone has pointed out here today – that the Center Party is not involved in this. That's what I think is gross, and I'm asking that people actually notice. Maybe they'll turn around at the next crossroads.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e1622	I'm glad that Karin Andersen mentioned Hans Børli and «We own the forests», because if I remember correctly, it says in the last line: «No, we own the forests, as the child owns its mother.» It is a very good expression of the importance of all human rights in Norway, that even though one of Norway's largest forest owners owns most of the forest near me, it is domestic forest anyway. And that's our woods. That is what the right of all people is all about: although the property is owned by a private individual, one can – just as others here have described very well – also today harvest, use, recruit and walk in nature. For me, it's still time to make sure that you yourself have some of the chewing berries, the blueberries and the soup. There is a quality in Norwegian society. I fully agree with the excellent introduction that the rapporteur had, but I just want to remind you that this is not a new discussion, and I will allow myself to say a little about why. I have said earlier today that I am skeptical that all the matters that we are burning for must have their own point in the Constitution. I still mean that. I believe that the Constitution should not become a box of good wishes. But when we talk about soil protection, as we did in the previous case, and when we talk about public rights, we talk about community security so that the situation we have will exist in the future. That's why I think this is in another category, which should definitely be grounded. This is not a newcomer's thing that was found in the previous magnification period. Magnus Lagbøte began this: in 1276, in the Landslaw, the first mention of the rights of the general public was. With that in mind, I agree that it is a pity that we cannot get an assurance that we will not undermine a situation that we all say we are happy for, and that we cannot get a majority for it. I was also a little surprised – although I have of course read the setting – that the representative Bjørke stressed that it could be in conflict with private ownership, because that is precisely the balance that has been so good. Then I wonder what that means for a possible tightening of public rights in the future. I believe in everyone here who says that we should still be able to pelt berries, pellet mushrooms, ski, go on legs, sleep out in tents – if you will. I believe that. But there is no doubt that public rights are under pressure in Norwegian society. Therefore, I had hoped that we could now be able to confirm something that is so important to the community, and that so well – as the representative Nävra was in it – the class divisions of the Norwegian community will be erased. Then I wonder what the representative Harberg thought that the three proposals that are here were poorly formulated, that there was something about the wording. But I choose to interpret it in the best possible sense and therefore invite Svein Harberg to do a good job of jointly making a good constitution, which respects the rights of the public, for treatment in the next period.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e1639	As I said before, the centre party is occupied by the all-man rights and strongly storks him. I agree with SV that there is reason to worry about the state of the shoreline, especially in Oslofjord. But does the representative, Karin Andersen, think that there's something going to be resolved to legislate with the text that's written here? Listen to it with much clearer laws, and it must be solved in other ways. It is not challenging to have neither Andersen, Nävra nor Haltbrecken representatives in the terrain. All-man rights have been a fine balance. But I'm perhaps the one in this room who's most experienced the universal right from the landowner's side. Voss is one of the largest tourist communities in the region. It is unlikely how fast tourists and visitors perceive the universal right. Unfortunately, not everyone has come to realize that it actually brings with it some obligations. I think everyone here today has been clear about how well this has worked, and it is because the great majority understands that one should behave properly in the terrain, that one should take care of the landowner's operations and other things. This seems to be getting watered down, whether it's organized tours, organized cycling or rafting -- there's a lot of things that come in a frontier country between what's all-man rights and what's commercial exploitation. It's imperative to make people understand that balance, and I think with a basic law, it'll reinforce the idea: that here we're right, we can only take on. Therefore, I have wished that we could jointly raise the right of all persons, but then I listened to the balance that lies there today. So it's claimed that the Center Party has promised to legislate the all-man rights. The people I've checked with, and I myself, have discussed this a lot, and we can't imagine we've done that. If a single representative has said that once, I'm not going to be good at it. But we have been very clear that we are for all-man rights, and there may have been a misunderstanding there.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e1650	And to the last point, that's how the parties in front of the election are asked different questions. This was one of the issues that was asked, and I expect the Centre Party – as we do others – to respond on behalf of the Centre Party and not on behalf of individual representatives, in which case it should be noted. So to what the representative Bjørke says: Yes, the rights of all people are threatened, especially in the beach zone, and it's a warning that we have to protect this freedom stronger than what we're doing now. I perceive that the representative from the Central Party is willing to join in and look at the underlying laws to tighten it up, in order to ensure these interests, but do not participate in putting this into the Constitution as a clear anchor for the value of how we think about the relationship between individuals, residents, in this country and the right to travel, stay and harvest. It makes me a little worried, because then I see that the Center Party really has a desire to change the assumptions of all-man rights in order to capitalize more on these properties itself. I don't think that's good, whether there's too much commercial exploitation otherwise, as the representative mentions, whether there's too much use in some places, or whether there's someone who travels in nature who doesn't fulfill the obligations they have under all human rights, namely not to neglect and destroy the good that you're allowed to use. I can't understand the resistance of the Center Party to this foundation law, in any way other than that one actually thinks that one should restrict the rights of all persons, and that the All-man right should give up ownership more than it does today. Then I just have to say that there is an SV completely disagree with. Property law is enshrined in the Constitution, and it should still be, because it is important, but all-man rights and property rights should be stated in the Constitution, both of them, because it is important and essential principles that they govern. I particularly liked the contribution of the representative Andersen of the Workers' Party, who mentioned my collaboration Hans Børli and quoted him correctly, but also the invitation to the other parties to join in and look at the Constitutional Text for the next period. I think this is one of the things that can stand after us in a good way – that we saw these values and took care of them – and that there is no threat to those who have ownership, at all. There are completely other things that threaten the natural basis on which we are all so happy and dependent. We can look at different formulations of basic legislation, but I would like to remind you once again that it is a professor of fundamental law as a specialty who has formulated these proposals, and both the level of precision laid down in basic law, and the basic law is well respected in the proposals. But for the most part, if we can sit down, find a formulation and put in a common proposal from all the parties, SV is involved. We think it's a good initiative, we think it should be done, and it would have been very neat if it was a unanimous greatness that did it, because then we would have shown that the all-man's right, which is so important to us, is something we really agree on.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e1663	Now I'm going to be careful not to extend a good and exciting debate, but when I get a direct question and a clear invitation, I can't stop – and that's nice. There were questions about what was unclear, and I hear that Karin Andersen now refers to the fact that this must be sunny. Yes, perhaps, but the state authorities must ensure and promote the right of all people – clearly or not clearly, you can discuss it – and the nature of the outdoors. If someone in one minute can tell me what's defined as the nature of the outdoor life, I'll be very grateful for that. I think there's a lot of thinking about what it is. I have been rapporteur, I have worked on many both expansion projects and development projects, and we have taken on areas in which we had to cut ourselves short in order to be able to see, which was produced as the very obvious natural basis of open-air life. So there's a lot of opinions about this, and that's what makes us a little bit concerned. But as we have said, the principle is that we agree. It could be that it would have been possible to gather around other formulations. What I'm at least saying yes to is that we sit down and work together on how we can strengthen the rights of all people in the work that is going on. Then I think first and foremost about the work that is being done in municipalities and is working with regulations and development plans, because that is where it happens first and foremost. Today, it is enshrined in the Outdoors Act. Maybe it would also have been anchored elsewhere. I want to say yes to the invitation, and then we'll see what we can get out of it in the next round.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e1680	The representative of Nils T. Bjørke has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e1685	It would have been an advantage if the representative Karin Andersen had listened to what I said, and not what she thinks I should say. What I said was that we are very clear that we want to strengthen the rights of all people, but that there are some challenges to how people perceive him. And it could be an even bigger challenge if we put him in the Constitution with the formulations that are here today. Otherwise I'll just show you what Harberg said about the precision of the proposals that lead to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e1692	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e1697	Once this has been dealt with in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, it has been well tried to gather on a wording. But I can then draw attention to Option 3C, which is: ‘The general right shall be maintained.’. It is a clear wording, which clearly says something about the purpose, and which even has the same wording in bookkeeping and in new Norwegian. That is in every good reason – I think – for a cooperation on something we shouldn't have any kind of problems with the interpretation possibilities of. So to the Center Party: Yes, I might interpret some of what Bjørke's representative says, a little hard, but I do it in the light of the comments written by the Center Party in this setting, suggesting that this is "an uncritical extension of all-man's rights". Now the Bear goes to the pulpit and says he can imagine tightening up these rules. In that case, voting in favour of these legal provisions today would not result.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e1709	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e1725	According to the proposers, there are two principles behind the desire to lower the age of voting rights to 16 years. One is that voting rights from 16 years old imply an extension of participating democracy. It is an important principle because it means that more people are given voting rights, more people are learning to use their voting rights early, and more people can say their opinion and cast their votes in a well-organised voice-based democracy. The second is the principle that the person who is old enough to make adult choices should also have the right to participate in the legislative process and thus influence the same laws as the obligations to follow. At the same time, there are three main counter-arguments that are most likely to be raised in the 16-year voting debate. The first is that young people under the age of 18 are not mature enough to address political issues. The second is that voting rights from 16 years old in practice do not contribute to increased electoral participation. The last one is that the age of authority and the age of eligibility are 18 years and that these two should be related to the age of voting rights. The majority of the committee – all except SV – is in favour of the proposal not being accepted, and I believe that the parties themselves will clarify their views if necessary. On the part of the Christian People's Party, it is in particular the last argument that is given decisive importance. These include: that underpins our programme formulation, and makes use of the wording that the Christian People's Party will maintain the 18-year common age of authority and voting rights, as stated in our party programme. We believe that the age of authority and voting rights should be the same. We therefore do not support the proposal that is on the table here either. Then it is said that there have been historically different ages of voting, choice and authority, but here in its time an act was taken to clean up. When these age limits were coordinated and lowered to the present level, 18 years old, they were justified by a fundamental need for coordination of age limits. At the same time, this coordination solved some inconsistencies, and the rules became clearer. The Christian People's Party believes these arguments still have great weight. Having said that, I must stress that we are fully convinced that many of the 16-year-olds of the country are both hafile and well qualified to exercise their voting rights, and I will not rule out or categorically reject the fact that in the future it may be right to reconsider the matter. However, if the age limit of 16 is to or should be re-assessed, then one has to look at it in a broader context and, in our view, it has to be assessed in an image where one also looks at the age of authority and the age of choice. I think this is a little bit ahead of time, but it should still be said here and now. Despite the positive developments we see in society, where today's 16-year-olds have considerable competence, the time has not come to lower the age of voting to 16 years. We therefore propose, like the majority of the committee, that the proposal be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e1746	For the sake of the minutes, I wanted to say that the Progress Party is fully behind what the rapporteur said, and behind the vote, that we want to reject this proposal. Of course, the most important argument, which was also used by the rapporteur, is that we have an age of authority today of 18 years, and it is quite natural that voting rights follow the age of authority. It is not that Norway is roughly the last country in the world without a lower age of voting rights, on the contrary. Although there are some countries that try this out, or some countries that have lowered their age, it is not the great majority. There may be many good arguments as to why larger groups should be included among those who should have voting rights, but we think the most important argument in this case is that this should follow the age of authority, so the Progress Party will vote against these constitutional changes together.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e1755	The introduction of a 16-year-old voting age is really just one thing, and it is a strengthening and an extension of democracy. That's exactly what we've done over time, from when the Constitution was formulated in 1814. Then a man had to be 25 years old, and one had to have property, one had to own a patch of land somewhere. That was the requirement. So in 1898, one removed the requirement that one had to have ownership, but one had to still be a man, and one had to be at least 25 years old. Today we think of it as absurd. In 1913, one vote was extended to all women over the age of 25. In 1920, the age limit for general voting rights fell to 23 years. In 1946, the limit was lowered to 21 years, in 1967 to 20 years, and in 1978 to the 18 - year - old limit of the day. All of these steps have been a strengthening and an extension of democracy. Several have been given the opportunity to take part in decisions, which in itself is a strength for democracy. If you agree with that, you also agree that the more people who can participate in a decision, the more different perspectives you get, the more different backgrounds you have, the more different ages, the more different layouts and orientations you have, the more strangely, the greater the number of gaps you get, the stronger the decisions. In many ways, high levels of participation are a foundation for all democracy. As this review of history also shows, this is not the height of rock in any way. The whole basic idea of those who wanted to reform this system was to expand. One also creates trust. By getting more people to participate and take the big decisions, you also increase your trust. Already today, there are many adult decisions that 16-year-olds have: one can choose if one wants to have sex when one is 16. The criminal low age is 15 years old. When you're 16, you can choose which education you want to take. One can choose a political and religious stand. You're entitled to an abortion at 16 years of age. But voting rights do not have one. There are several who believe that there should be consistency between voting rights, the ability to stand for election and authority, but of the 204 years we have had voting rights in Norway, there has only been a direct match between voting rights and the ability to stand for elections for 40 years. For 160 years, it has been unbalanced. We also know a lot of democracy where there is no match between being able to make choices, authority and voting. In the United States, one can have one vote at one age, but in order to be president, one must be well-adult. So to the claim that there's a necessary context there: it's a practice of newer dates. It's from 1979 in Norway. So you can introduce a 16-year-old voting age and still have an 18-year-old authority. Austria has already introduced 16 years of voting rights at all levels. It has been a great success. No one now suggests going back to 18 years. Even though there was a lot of rabidness when it was introduced in 2007, no one has ever wanted to go back on that scheme in retrospect. Austria's experience is that it has increased the selection for the first time selection. Political awareness starts long before one is 18 years old – much before – and opening up participation in the past has actually increased the turnout of the younger Austrian voters. In Germany and in several other countries, this has been done at a lower level, but Austria stands out because they have introduced it at absolutely all levels, and they do not intend to return. I think this is a natural new step to expand and strengthen Norwegian democracy. There are also arguments that have not yet been raised in this debate, and it is true with maturity that there must be certain requirements for maturation when taking part in decisions. Maturity is a very difficult procedure. People who were made unauthorized in Norway today have the right to vote. People who have a weakened state of mind, e.g. People who are senile also have voting rights in Norway today. This is not what is required. Besides, mature is a very smooth transition that can't be marked in any way by the age of confirmation or that one is 18 years old. The experience gained from Norway in 2011, the pilot scheme, showed that with the age of 16 years, participation among first-time voters increased. There was a higher turnout among 16- and 17-year-olds in the 20 selected municipalities that were part of the trial scheme than was the case among first-time voters in general. I think this is a natural next step in developing Norwegian democracy to include several people – this is just a strength. Democracy is not something we can take for granted. We see that around us. Democracy is a staggering being that always has to be given both trust and energy, and here we have the opportunity to expand it to include the 16-year-olds. The SV that the group will gather to vote for this in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e1780	Would the representative Knag Fylkesnes like to comment on SV's proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e1785	That's what I want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e1790	The representative of Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e1795	A well-functioning democracy is always in the process of development. Development is necessary to keep democracy up to date and reflect the society we live in now, not the society we lived in 10, 20, 50 or 100 years ago. The establishment of the age of voting rights is also historically a clear example of how development and progress are necessary to ensure the fundamental law and democracy legitimacy of the population. From 1814 you had to be a man of at least 25 years of age with property in order to be regarded as entitled to vote. As the speaker before me said, there have historically been several extensions to the voting rights. I choose to repeat them here, because I think it is important that we remember just that in the debate. In 1898, voting rights were introduced for all men over 25 years of age. In 1913, Norway gained the right to vote for women over 25 years of age. In 1920, age was reduced to 23 years, in 1946 to 21 years, in 1967 to 20 years, and in 1978, not so many years before I was born, it was 18 years old. Now it's time for us to take the next step. For me, the debate on the age of 16 is rooted in the principle of representativeness. We live in a representative democracy. We politicians are given confidence in making decisions on behalf of all citizens, and then it must be an absolute goal for us to make sure that a maximum proportion of the population is actually represented. Today we see that young people are strongly under-represented in democracy. It's a pleasure that we now have the youngest big thing ever, and it's an important step in the right direction. But if we look at local democracy in the municipalities and the counties around us, we see that there is still a shortage of young people and young people. Time and again, we see that young representatives are not prioritised on the lists of the parties, and I refuse to believe that it is because of lack of qualifications or lack of maturity. If we look at the political parties, we are in a situation in Norway where young voices are taken seriously, heard, is a full part of party democracy, but we have set a limit when it comes to actual democracy. Often I think the fact that young people are not given priority on lists is probably so much for tactical reasons. For who is it that mobilizes most voters? Here young people often fall through when there are fewer young people who can vote on them, because often it is that we appeal well to those who recognize themselves in just me or you or someone else. The result is that we're left with a composition where a large proportion of the population is underrepresented. But we have some points of light, because we see that in those municipalities that have had a probationary system to lower their voting age, 16-year-olds and 17-year-olds actually voted in favour of young people. You can see that more young people are represented. It is precisely this effect that we want if we are to achieve the most representative democracy possible. Several believe it would be artificial to have different age of voting and authority. There's a connection I don't understand or think need to be a leader, at least not all the time we have a 15-year-old criminal, a 16-year-old sexual detainee, the right to choose education after the age of 15, the right to choose political and religious standing at the age of 15, the right to abortion at the age of 16, the right to receive or refuse health care after the age of 16. This shows that we in Norway have a rather clear line that responsibilities and obligations for individual individuals are not assigned exclusively at a single, specific age. It happens gradually. That's how it's been done through history, so it's still done today. Therefore, the connection that many see should not be the leader in what you choose to vote here today. I think we should be careful not to think that we have found the ultimate, perfect age. In particular, I think we're gonna be good if the argument we're leaning on is whether the individual 16 or 17-year-old is mature enough to make a choice about who represents him or her in a good way. There's a lot that can be said about maturity, and I'm glad that it's not maturity that has been the argument that's been used most here in this room, but we see that's the argument that's most often used outside this room. If we're going to draw some lines to where the societal debate is today, where it is we're discussing the big societal issues today – I see that also here in the hall there are more people who are on the platform right now while I'm talking – it's on the mobile phone, on social media. That's where the social debate goes today. If there's one thing that's very clear, it's that those who know the game rules for the modern social debate are far more 16- and 17-year-olds than the older generations. If we look at who's sending hot and jickering messages on social media, at least the 16- and 17-year-olds are not overrepresented in that statistics. So when it comes to modern democratic rules, at least you should not be afraid that Norwegian 16- and 17-year-olds are not mature enough. It's also like some of the really big societal issues we're discussing here today, not most people in here are going to take the consequences of it. The really big issues, the issues that are simply about generational justice, the issues about how to exploit our big savings fund, the issues about what to do to combat climate change, the major societal issues that are going to affect my generation, but really the generations that come after me, don't get today's 16- and 17-year-olds involved either. Then it's a little strange to think that there's a majority of well-established political parties that still in many ways are the brake blocks for exactly the evolution that today's 16- and 17-year-olds have to take the bill for in 50, 60 – perhaps 100, 200 years. Democracy is always developing, and it is valuable that young people have the same conditions to express their opinion and participate in democracy. By lowering the age of voting, we give 16 and 17-year-olds the opportunity to say who best represents their interests. Young people get a better chance to be heard. More dramatic than that, this proposal is not.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e1820	I think the representative of Almeland now made a very good contribution. Just as we can't find the perfect age for voting, Norwegian democracy is not a fixed size, but it needs to be renewed to become wider and more inclusive. And as many people have been about, we've gone from that no one had the right to vote to that of some men, so all men, and so also women in the end. In 1967, all over 20 years of age were given voting rights, and from 1978, all over 18 years of age. The right to vote is – and has always been – evolving. I believe that particular reasons should be given for refusing any voting rights. Two attempts with 16-year-old voting have shown that 16- and 17-year-olds participate much more frequently than other first-time voters, and that when the age of voting is reduced, more young people are elected. Then it's time to include 130,000 more people in Norwegian democracy. About half the world's population is under 30 years of age, while 1.6 pst. by the parliamentarians of the world are under 30 years of age. Changing the age of voting in Norway does not solve this, but when we know that it is becoming more young people elected when the age of voting is reduced, it is an important way of contributing to the expansion of democracy. It must be an objective that young people are better represented in Norwegian policy as well. We who are elected to the Storting make decisions every day that have major consequences for the future. Last year, the annual Youth Data Survey showed that fewer young people than before think they're going to have a happy life. Societal researchers Guro Ødegård, one of the researchers behind the implementation of the study, are promoting climate change and that more people look forward to being unemployed once in the future, as some of the reasons why youth today is less optimistic than before. I think we should take this seriously, and that we must extend democracy to ensure that young people can participate more fully and influence their own future. Young people’s political participation in Norway has increased, but differences in participation have also increased. We should be aware that we can be on our way to a political outreach, where young people with, for example, Immigrant backgrounds, young professionals — and boys — are less likely to participate in elections than other young people. The right to vote for 16-year-olds is not a question of these challenges, but it is an element. Elections – and voting – are the cornerstone of our democracy, and we should also follow up with other measures that make it easier for young people to participate in elections and in democracy. So one way to think about it, it's going to go forward. The majority of the Committee argues in the position that 16-year-olds should have the right to vote: Norway is obliged to increase youth power and influence, the school system has changed, young people have more knowledge of society than before, school choices allow 16-year-olds to be as prepared to participate in elections as many older voters. So then we are left with the view that the age of authority, the age of choice and the age of voting should be linked. But in reality – as previous speakers have also said – it is fewer years when this has been connected than it has not been connected. Young people over the age of 15 must follow the laws of the country through the criminal lavalier, but one cannot influence the law by participating in elections. Young people are under-represented in politics today, young people participate in school elections and in organisational life, young people are greatly affected by the decisions we are making here, and young people over 16 are today more than well equipped to participate in our democracy through elections. In other words, I believe that the reasons for refusing them to vote are not good enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e1839	The world would look very different if we in this room would have listened more to the youth. Greta Thunberg is an example. The 15-year-old Swedish girl scolded the school for the environment. She was so dissatisfied with the attention given to climate issues in the Swedish election campaign, that she decided to put it on the agenda in her own way. We kids don't usually do what you adults tell us to do. We'll do as you do. And since you adults blow in my future, I do too, says Greta – and so I cheated on the school three weeks throughout the Swedish election campaign because the politicians didn't give the climate noise place in the election campaign. We politicians should have listened more to young people, those who are afraid of their own future. That is what voting rights are all about, creating a policy for the future. Now Greta has made a move and has got many trailers across Europe. Under #YouthforClimate, they protest, and last week Belgian youths put the books away to the advantage of requiring international leaders to address the climate challenges. At least 35,000 young people had a syllabus in Belgium, and the week before 20 000 participated in Germany and Switzerland. Although I, as a teacher and education policy, absolutely do not encourage scoffing – let's say – I believe that they are using a weapon that is worth listening to. I believe these young people have an important voice, and I think the young people are qualified to vote in Norway too. Why do you vote? You have to vote with your heart, vote for your country, for your county, for your home and for your family. You have to vote for what you believe you have to vote wisely, with thought and with knowledge – vote for the country you want to live in, and vote for what you have not yet done. For me, the vote is about one vote for several employees in kindergartens, for cheaper kindergartens, so that every tax penny and the parent pays to kindergartens should go to kindergartens – not for profit. Vote for more teachers in primary school. Vote for more apprenticeship places and less disqualification in high school. Vote for more health sisters and school psychologists. Vote that the children will always have something they can get to when things get difficult. Vote for school food to all, for there is not healthy food in all school bags, or food at all. Vote for homework for the children, because not all parents are at home and can help. Vote for the full-day school, so that the working day is finished when you get home – also for the small ones. Vote for less inequality, vote for a society where everyone is going, vote to bring down the number of poor children from the hundreds of thousands we have today. Vote to increase the child's level of concern for everyone. Vote for giving back the children's supplement, which has lost so many unfortunates. Vote for increased housing support, which helps those who have the least. And vote to give back what they lost in the conflict, which the government was supposed to fix, but forgot. Vote to keep promises. Vote on the repatriation of allowances. Steps to get the Sea Resource Act into the Constitution. Vote for several fishing boats, more farm workers, better fish quality and less climate change in fisheries. Vote for cleaner farming facilities. Vote to save the Lofoten, the Vestral and Senja. Vote on the environment, vote on the children, vote on the grandchildren and their children. Vote for Norway to increase CO 2 cuts by three million tonnes. Vote for more research. Vote on the development of green technology. Vote on green industry. Vote for a Norway that can show the world how to become carbon free. Vote for Norway and the world, and vote for a ban on nuclear weapons. Vote for more defence of their own territory and fewer bombings. Vote for those who know what they want. Vote in common, on justice, on equality. Vote with your head, vote with your heart, vote for the future. I'm not in doubt that this can also fix 16-year-olds as well as many of us adults. Now give them an opportunity to be heard, as the representative Almeland so beautifully said.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e1867	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e1883	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e1894	The size is then ready to go to voting. Case No. 1 was a statement by the government to be debated tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e1905	During the debate, Freddy André Øvstegård put forward a proposal on behalf of the Committee member Eva Kristin Hansen from the Labour Party, and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘I The title of the Constitution is replaced by the following: Constitution of the Kingdom of Norway – The Constitution of Norway Section 1 is replaced by the following: Norway is a free, independent, indivisible and inalienable republic. – Norway is a free, independent, indivisible and independent republic. the title of Chapter B is replaced by the following: B. About the exercise of power – B. About the Exercising Power Section 3 is replaced by the following: The executive is with the government and the president. Detailed rules on the President are laid down by law. – The executive is with the government and the president. More details on whether the President will be governed by law. Sections 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 11 are deleted. Paragraph 12 is replaced by the following: The Government shall consist of a Prime Minister and at least seven other members. All members of the government shall be Norwegian citizens entitled to vote. The government allocates the tasks among its members as it deems it appropriate. To attend government meetings next to the permanent members, the government may, in exceptional cases, convene other Norwegian citizens, but not the President or members of the Stortinget. Spouses, parents and children or two siblings must not be members of the government at the same time. – In the government there shall be a Prime Minister and at least seven other members. All members of the Government shall be citizens of Norway. The government allocates the tasks among the members as she thinks it is likely. To attend the government meeting next to the permanent members, the government may, under special circumstances, call other Norwegian citizens, but not the President or members of the Stortinget. Husbands, parents and children or two siblings must not be members of the government at the same time. Paragraph 13 is replaced by the following: The matters of the government are determined by voting. By agreement, the Prime Minister or, in his absence, the first of the present state councils has two votes. – The government's business is resolved with calcination. If the voices are equal, the prime minister or, if he's gone, the first of the state councils present has two voices. Section 14 is replaced by the following: The Government may appoint State Secretaries to assist the members of the Government in the performance of their duties outside the meetings of the Government. Each State Secretary shall act on behalf of the member of the Government to which he or she is linked, in so far as that member decides. – The government can appoint state secretaries to help the members of the government with their actions outside the government meeting. Each State Secretary shall act on behalf of the member of the Government to which he or she is attached, as far as this member is determined. Section 15 is replaced by the following: Any member of the Government shall be obliged to resign from office after the Storting has taken a decision to distrust him alone or to the Government as a whole. Once the Storting has taken a decision on mistrust, only tasks necessary for the proper performance of the duties may be carried out. – Each member of the government is obliged to resign after the Storting has taken a decision on the distrust of the future or of the entire government. Once the Storting has taken a decision on mistrust, only such actions as may be required for defence purposes can be carried out. Paragraphs 17, 18, 19 and 22 of the second subparagraph are amended as follows: «King» shall be replaced by «Registration» in bookcases and by «Registration» in newNorwegian language. Paragraph 20, first paragraph, is replaced by the following: At the government meeting, the government has the right to pardon offenders after they have been convicted. The offender may choose to receive the mercy of the government or to submit to the penalty imposed. – At the government meeting, the government has the right to grant mercy to criminals after they have fallen. The offender can choose to accept mercy from the government or take the sentence. Paragraph 21 is replaced by the following: The Government elects and appoints all civil and military officials. Before their insertion, they shall swear or, if they are by law exempted from oath, solemnly promise obedience and allegiance to the constitution. The officials who are not Norwegian citizens may by law be exempted from this obligation. – The government is well appointed and appointed by all civil and military officials. Before the insertion, they shall swear or, by law, they shall be exempt from the use of property, from the solemn promise of obedience and the threat to the institution. Officials who are not Norwegian citizens may, by law, be exempted from this obligation. Paragraph 22, first paragraph, first and second sentences shall be replaced by the following: The Prime Minister, the other members of the Government and the State Secretaries may be dismissed by the Government without judgment. The same shall apply to the officials employed by the Government Offices or by the Foreign Service, civilian superiors, directors of regiments and other military corps, commanders of fasteners and maximum commanders of warships. – The Prime Minister, the other members of the Government and the State Secretaries may be dismissed by the Government without judgment. The same shall apply to the officials appointed by the Government Offices or by the Foreign Office, to the civil supremacy persons, to the chief of regiments and other military corps, to the commanders of fastenings and to the highest commanders of warships. the first paragraph of Section 23 is replaced by the following: The government can distribute orders to whom it wills, to the reward of excellent profits, which must be made public. The Government may not assign any rank or title other than that entailed by an office. It does not exempt anyone from the common duties and burdens of its citizens, nor does it confer the right of priority on State officials. Officials dismissed in grace retain the title and rank they held in office. This does not apply to the members of the Government or to the State Secretaries. – The government can give orders to whoever it wants to, to pass on to the public from the top, which must be announced to the public. The government cannot assign a rank and title other than that of an official. It does not exempt anyone from the duties and duties of citizens, nor does it confer the right to government office. Officials who are given the separation in grace are given the title and rank they held in office. This does not apply to the members of the Government or the State Secretaries. Paragraph 24 is deleted. Paragraph 25, first paragraph, first sentence, is replaced by the following: The government has the highest command of the defence power of the state. – The government has the highest command over the state's defence powers. Paragraph 26 first paragraph is replaced by the following: The government has the right to convene troops, start war in defense of the country and conclude peace, conclude and terminate international agreements and send and receive messengers. – The government has the right to call troops, start war in defense of the country and end peace, conclude and cancel international agreements, and send and receive messengers. Paragraph 27 is replaced by the following: All members of the Government shall meet in government meetings when they are not legally due. No decision shall be taken where no more than half of the members are present. – All members of the Government shall meet in a government meeting when they are not legally due. No decision needs to be taken where not over half of the members are present. Paragraph 28 is replaced by the following: Recommendations on appointments and other important matters shall be presented at the government meeting of the member of the government whose field of competence they belong to. She or he shall handle matters in accordance with the government's decision. – Recommendations on appointments and other important matters shall be targeted at the government meeting of the member of the government to which they belong. He or she shall handle matters in accordance with the decision of the government. Paragraph 29 is replaced by the following: Preventing the legitimate decay of a member of the government from meeting and presenting the matters belonging to her or his subject area, these matters shall be referred by another member, as the government constitutes to it. In order to prevent legitimate decay so many from meeting that no more than half of the specified number of members are present, as many other persons as necessary shall be constituted to attend the government meeting. – If a member is legally prevented from meeting and targeting matters that belong to her or his subject area, matters shall be targeted by another member, as the government constitutes it. If legal dues are prevented from meeting that no more than half of the fixed number of members are present, so many other persons required to attend the government meeting shall be constituted. Paragraph 30 is replaced by the following: The Government meeting shall record the minutes of all matters dealt with there. The diplomatic matters which the government decides to keep secret are included in a separate protocol. The same applies to military command matters that the government decides to keep secret. Anyone attending a government meeting has an obligation to express their opinion with boldness. If any member of the government believes that the government's decision is contrary to the state form or the laws of the country, he or she has a duty to make strong counter-representations and to add his or her opinion to the protocol. Anyone who has not protested in this way is deemed to have agreed with the government's decision and is responsible for it, as it is then decided, and may be brought before the Court of Justice by the Grand Duchy. – In the government meeting, there is a record of all matters being dealt with there. The diplomatic matters that the government decides to keep track of are included in a specific protocol. The same applies to the military command cases that the government decides to keep secret. Each member of the government meeting has an obligation to express his or her opinion with boldness. If any member of the government believes that the decision of the government is contrary to the state form or the laws of the country, he or she has a duty to strongly protest and to make a statement in the Minutes. Anyone who has not protested in this way is deemed to have been agreed in the decision of the government and is responsible for it, as it is stated on the side, and the Stortinge may be sued by the Supreme Court. Paragraph 31 is replaced by the following: All the government's decisions are made in its name and are signed by the Prime Minister or, if the Prime Minister has not been present, by the first of the members present at the government meeting. – All decisions of the government are issued in the name of the government and are signed by the prime minister or, if the prime minister was not present at the government meeting, by the first of the members who were. § § 32, 34, 35, 36, 37, 39, 40, 41, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47 and 48 are deleted. Paragraph 62 is replaced by the following: Officials employed by government offices, other than State Secretaries and political advisers, may not be elected as representatives. The same applies to the members of the Supreme Court and officials who are employed in the foreign service, and to officials employed at the office of the President. The members of the Government may not meet at Stortinget as representatives as long as they are members of the Government. The same applies to the President, as long as she or he is President. Neither may the State Secretaries meet as representatives as long as they are in office, and the political advisers at the offices of the Government and the President may not meet at the Stortinge for as long as they hold their posts. – Officials appointed by the Government Offices, other than State Secretaries and Political Advisers, may not be elected as representatives. The same applies to the members of the Supreme Court, the officials who are added to the foreign service, and the officials who are added to the office of the President. Members of the Government may not meet in Storting as representatives as long as they are members of the Government. The same applies to the President as long as he or she is President. Nor can the State Secretaries meet as representatives as long as they are in office, and the political advisers at the government offices cannot meet at the Stortinget as long as they have their posts. Paragraph 67 deletes «Kingdom». Paragraph 68, first sentence, is replaced by the following: The majority generally meet in the capital of the kingdom on the first working day of October each year, unless the government or the president, due to exceptional circumstances, such as hostile attack or infectious disease, chooses another city in the kingdom. – The biggest thing usually comes together in the capital on the first weekday of October every year, if not the government or the president because of unusual circumstances, such as hostile action or contagious disease, choose another city in the kingdom. Paragraph 69 is replaced by the following: When the Storting is not grouped, it may be convened by the Government if it considers it necessary. – When the Storting isn't collected, the government can call it together if she thinks it's necessary. Paragraph 74, first paragraph, is replaced by the following: As soon as Stortinget has established itself, the Prime Minister or the Prime Minister will open negotiations with a talk about the state of the state and the conditions against which he or she in particular wants to direct the attention of the Stortinge. – As soon as Stortinget has formed, the Prime Minister or the Prime Minister will take note of it, the negotiations with a talk about the state of the kingdom and the issues that he or she would like to make the Stortinger aware. Paragraph 74, second paragraph, is replaced by the following: Once the negotiations of the Grand Duchy have been opened, the Prime Minister and the other members of the Government have the right to meet in the Grand Duchy and, in line with the members of the Grand Duchy, participate in the negotiations when they are held for open doors, but without voting. In the cases dealt with for closed doors, this only applies when the Storting permits it. – Once the negotiations in Stortinget are open, the Prime Minister and the other members of the Government have the right to meet in Stortinget and are similar to the members who take part in the negotiations when they are held open, but without a voice. In matters that are treated for connected doors, this only applies when the Storting grants permission to do so. Paragraph 75(e) is deleted. Paragraph 75(f) shall become point (e) and shall be replaced by the following: (e) to submit to the minutes of the government meetings and all public reports and papers; – (e) to obtain the minutes of the meeting of the Government and all public messages and paper; Paragraph 75(g), renumbered f, is amended as follows: «King» shall be replaced by «Registration» in bookcases and by «Registration» in newNorwegian language. Paragraph 75(h) shall become point (g) and shall be replaced by the following: (g) to be able to give any order to meet separately in State cases; – (g) to be able to give anyone the opportunity to meet separately in matters of State; § 75(i) to (m) becomes § 75(h) to (k). Paragraph 76, first paragraph, is replaced by the following: Any law shall first be proposed on the Stortinget, either by a wholesaler or by the government of one of its members. – All legislative proposals shall be made first at Stortinget, either by a majority representative or by the government of one of its members. Paragraph 77 is replaced by the following: Once the Storting has taken the same law twice in a row, it is sent to the government with a request for its sanction. – When the Storting has made the same law decision twice in a row, the decision goes to the government with a call for sanctions. Paragraph 78 is replaced by the following: If the government accepts the bill, the Prime Minister will provide it with his signature, and thus it will be legal. If the government does not accept it, it will be sent back to the Stortinget with the statement that the government does not currently think it appropriate to punish it. In that case, the aggregate cannot put this decision before the government again. – If the government accepts the legislative decision, sign the Prime Minister, and thus it becomes legal. If the government doesn't accept it, it's sent back to the Storting saying that the government doesn't think it's likely to punish it. In that case, the aggregate at that time cannot re-submit this decision to the government. Paragraph 79 is replaced by the following: When two big ones with one choice and at least two large ones have taken the same law without the Stortinge in the meantime having made any divisive final law decisions, and the government is then introduced, it becomes law even if the government does not give its sanction until the Stortinget is separated. – When two magnifications with one choice and at least two magnifications have made the same law decision unchanged without the Stortinge in the meantime having made a discriminating final law decision, and it is then submitted to the government, then it is allowed even if the government does not give sanction until the Stortinget divorces. Paragraph 80, third paragraph, is replaced by the following: Within this period, the Prime Minister shall notify the Government of the decision on the legislative acts not already decided. [[(see section 4.4). §§ 77-79)]] – Before that time, the Prime Minister of the Grand Duchy announced to the Government the decision on the decisions not already taken. [[(see section 4.4). §§ 77-79)]] Paragraph 81 is replaced by the following: All laws are made in the name of the government, under the seal of the Kingdom of Norway and with the following words: ‘The Norwegian Government announces that we have been presented with the decision of the Storting of the date of sale: [[except those in Section 79]] [[following the decision]] – All laws are issued in the name of the government, under the Norwegian national seal and in the following words: "The Norwegian Government announces that the Stortinget has submitted to us a date set date which reads as follows: [[as close as they are to § 79]] [[here comes the decision]] Paragraph 82, second sentence, is replaced by the following: No member of the Government must provide incorrect or misleading information to the Storing or its organs. – No member of the government shall provide incorrect or misleading information to the Storing or a Grand Body. Paragraph 86, first paragraph, is replaced by the following: The Court of First and Last Instance of the cases brought by the Grand Duchy against members of the Government, the Supreme Court or the Grand Duchy, or the President, for criminal or other unlawful offences when they have breached their constitutional obligations. – The Court of First and Last Instance condemns in the cases brought by the Grand Duchy against members of the Government, the Supreme Court or the Grand Duchy, or the President, for a criminal or other unlawful relationship when they have violated their constitutional obligations. Paragraph 86, third paragraph, third sentence, is replaced by the following: The President, members of the Government and members of the Stortinget may not be elected as members of the Riksrecht. – The President, members of the Government and members of the Stortinget cannot be elected a member of the Riksrecht. Paragraph 121 is replaced by the following: If experience shows that any part of the Constitution of this Kingdom of Norway should be amended, amendments shall be submitted on the first, second or third accumulation following a new election and shall be published. But it's up to the first, second or third magnification after the next choice to decide whether the proposed change should take place or one. Such a change must, however, never contradict the principles of this Constitution, but must relate only to modifications in some provisions which do not alter the spirit of this Constitution, and two-thirds of the Biggest must agree to such a change. A constitutional provision thus adopted shall be signed by the President and Secretary of the Grand Duchy and communicated to the Government for publication as the applicable provision of the Constitution of Norway. – Where there is evidence that any part of the Constitution of this Kingdom of Norway should be amended, the submission of the amendment shall be made to the first, second or third accumulation following a new choice and shall be made public. But it's first the first, second or third rise after the next option that determines whether the change should be made or not. However, such a change must never go contrary to the principle of this Constitution, but only apply to modifications in individual declarations which do not change the spirit of that Constitution, and two-thirds of the Storing must agree on such a change. A Constitutional Code thus attached shall be signed by the President and Secretary of the Grand Duchy and sent to the Government for publication as the current constitution of the Constitution of Norway. II Decision No I shall enter into force on 1 January of the year following the adoption of the Republic as a form of government in Norway by a referendum. Such referendum must be held by 31 September 2021. III Those who are members of the Government at the date referred to in the first sentence of paragraph II shall, from then on, be granted authority, rights and obligations as members of the Government under the amended Constitution and powers, rights and obligations conferred on or under law on members of the Government or Government. From then on, authority, rights or duties conferred on the king by law or by law shall be conferred on the government. Authority, rights or obligations conferred upon the King by law or by law in the Council of State shall be conferred on the Government of the Government from then on.’;» The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote in favour of the proposal. The Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it. The left has announced that the group is free in this matter. The President has reason to believe that this might also apply in other party groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e2291	The proposal did not reach a two-thirds majority and was therefore not accepted. As a result of this vote, the recommendation of the instigator is dropped.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e2321	It's going to go over I first.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e2331	So it goes over III.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e2341	It is then added over II. The draft Constitutional Law was worded as follows: ‘Section 108 is replaced by the following: ‘It is up to the authorities of the State to facilitate the security and development of the Sami people, such as the indigenous peoples of the country, their language, their culture and their social life. AscendingSort order for mail groups Governments shall facilitate the security and development of the Sami people, such as the indigenous peoples of the country, in Sami languages, culture and social life.»
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e2357	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left Party, the Christian People's Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced support for the vote. The Right Party and the Advance Party have announced that they will vote against it. Since we are now to decide on amendments to the Constitution, the President will propose that it be voted on by roll call. – There have been no objections to this, and this is how it will be done. The propeller will start with agent no. 17 from Oslo, Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde. Those who vote in favour answer yes, and those who vote against answer no.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e2375	The attitude did not reach the constitutional majority and was therefore not endorsed. The 95 representatives who voted in favour of the proposal were: Geek Almeland, Julia Wong, Gingerbread, Gingerbread, Gingerbread, Gingerbread, Gingerbread, Gingerbread, Gingerbread, Gingerbread, Gingerbread, Gingerbread, Gingerbread, Gingerbread, Gingerbread, Gingerbread, Gingerbread, Gingerbread, Gingerbread, Gingerbread, Gingerbread, Gingerbread, Gingerbread, Gingerbread, Gingerbread, Gingerbread, Gingerbread, Gingerbreadbread, Gingerbreadbreadbread, Gingerbreadbread, Gingerbreadbreadbreadbreadbreadbread, Gingerbreadbreadbreadbreadbreadbreadbreadbreadbreadbreadbreadbreadbreadbreadbreadbreadbreadbreadbreadbreadbreadbreadbreadbreadbreadbreadbreadbreadbreadbreadbreadbreadbreadbreadbreadg, Ginger, Gingerbreadbreadbreadbreadbreadbreadbreadg The 71 representatives who voted against the proposal were: Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde, Astrid Nukebye Heiberg, Aase Simonsen, Swanung Stensland, Roy Steffensen, Margret Hagerup, Aleksandur Stokkebø, Terje Halleland, Frida Melvær, Solveig Sundbø Abrahamsen, Bord Hoksrud, Regina Alexandrova, Per-Willy Amundsen, Elin Rodum Agdestein, Sivert Bjørnstad, Mari Holm Lønseth, Karstein Eidem Løvaas, Morten Stordalen, Lene Westgaard-Halle, Erlen Larsen, Ingerd Schou, Ulf Leirstein, Monica Carmen Gåsvatn, Erland Wiborg, Svend Harberg, Åshild Bruun-Gundersheimssen, Ingunne Fünder Saudland, Norunnten Tünder Tünder Tünder, Tünderschen, Tünderschen, Hünderschen, Hønderønderønderønderssen The following 3 representatives were absent: Linda C. Hofstad Helleland and Knut Arild Hareide [[forf.]] [[forf.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e2396	During the debate, Mr Andersen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 12:25 [[standard of living and health]] The Socialist Left, the Left, the Green and the Red have announced that they will vote in favour of the proposal. The Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e2415	The proposal did not reach a two-thirds majority and was therefore not accepted. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e2442	The Socialist Left has announced that they will now not vote against the vote, but refers to voting on proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e2456	During the debate, Freddy André Øvstegård put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 12:10 [[right to cultural identity and participation in cultural life]] The Socialist Left, the Left, the Green and the Red have announced that they will vote in favour of the proposal. The Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e2475	The proposal did not reach a two-thirds majority and was therefore not accepted. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e2487	The Socialist Left Party has announced that they will not now vote against the vote, but will refer to the previous vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e2501	During the debate, Mr Andersen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 12:27 [[basic law on the right of residence]] The Socialist Left and Red have announced that they will vote in favour of the proposal. The Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party, the Centre Party, the Left, the Christian People's Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e2520	The proposal did not reach a two-thirds majority and was therefore not accepted. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e2532	The Socialist Left Party has announced that they will not now vote against the vote, but will refer to the previous vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e2582	Those who have announced that they will vote in favour of the vote are the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left, the Christian People's Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. Those who have announced that they will vote against are the Right Party and the Advance Party. The voting will take place during roll call. The plug starts with representative No. 3 for the North Trøndelag County, Arild Grande. Those who vote in favour of the Committee's position shall reply yes. Those who vote against answer no.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e2600	The attitude did not reach the constitutional majority and was therefore not endorsed. The 95 representatives who voted in favour of the draft Constitution were: Arild Grande, André N. Skelstad, Gingerbread, Gingerbread, Gingerbread, Kristian Torve, Heidi Greni, Jorod Asphjell, Lars Haltbread, Kirsti Leirtrö, Jon Gunnes, Dag Terje Andersen, Maria Aasen-Svensrud, Carl-Erik Grimstad, Stein Erik Lavås, Elise Børnbeck-Waagen, Svine Roald Hansen, Ole André Myhrvold, Freddy Andre Övstegård, Telle Inge Morland, Jorunn Gledich Lossius, Kari Henriksen, Hans Fredrik Gruvan, Torhild Bransdal, Anniken Huitfeldt, Sverre Myrli, Abid Q. Raja, Sigbjørn Gørnvike, Shejorne Gørn The 71 representatives who voted against the draft Constitution were: Elin Rodum Agdestein, Siverdde Mohammad, Mohammad, Mohammad, Mohammad, Mohammad, Mohammad, Mohammad, Mohammad, Mohammad, Mohammad, Mohammad, Mohammad, Mohammad, Mohammad, Mohammad, Mohammad, Mohammad, Mohammad, Mohammad, Mohammad, Mohammad, Mohammad, Mohammad, Mohammad, Mohammad, Mohammad, Mohammad, Mohammad, Mohammad, Mohammad, Mohammad, Mohammad, Mohammad, Mohammad, Mohammad, Mohammad, Mohammad, Mohammad, Mohammad, Ohammad, Mohammad, Mohammad, Mohammad, Mohammad, Hād, Mohammad, Mohammad, Mohammad, Mohammad, Mohammad, Mohammad, Mohammad, Hami, Hami, Mohammad, Mohammad, Mohammad, Mohammad, Mohammad, Mohammad, Mohammad, H, H, Hamid, Hamid, Hamid, Hamid, Hamid, Hamid, Hamid, Hamid, Hamid, Hamid, Hami, Hād, Hamid, Hami, Hamid, Hamid, Hamid, Hamid, Hamid, Hamid, Hā, Hād, Hād, Hād, Hād, Hād, Hamid, Hamid, Hamid, Hamid, Hamid, Hamid, Hamid, Hamid, Hamid, Hami, Hmad, Hmad, Hmad, Hmad, Hs, Hami, Hin, Hin, Hin, Hami, Hin, Hin, Hj, Hj, Hj, Hj, Hin The following 3 representatives were absent: Linda C. Hofstad Helleland and Knut Arild Hareide [[forf.]] [[forf]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e2621	During the debate Kristian Torve has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 12:2 [[2015-2016]] The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote in favour of the proposal. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Central Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e2640	The proposal did not reach a two-thirds majority and was therefore not accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e2645	I voted in favour, but it was on purpose. It was not notified in advance. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e2657	The Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced that they will not vote against the vote, but refer to the previous voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e2671	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, from Torgeira Knag County on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 12:7 [[introduction of 16 years of age of voting rights]] The Socialist Left, the Left, the Green and the Red have announced that they will vote in favour of the proposal. The Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e2692	The proposal did not reach a two-thirds majority and was therefore not accepted. As a result of the voting under case No. 2. deletes proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e2706	The Socialist Left Party has announced that they will not now vote against the vote, but will refer to the previous vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e2721	Case No. 11 is the second time that law enforcement is handled and is governed by law 37. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-29.ana.ud406e2747	As a result, the cases on today's map have been completed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
