ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e210	Representatives Peter Frölich, Jette F. Christensen, Bears Moxnes, Petter Eide, Tina Bru, Live Signe Navarsete, Ingvild Kjerkol, Arild Grande and Sivert Bjørnstad, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The following called alternates are now taking their seat: for the West-Agder province: Mathias Bernander, for Oslo: Geir Hågen Karlsen Two permit applications are available: by the Group of the Party of European Socialists on sick leave for the representative of Hanne Dyveke Süttar from 11 June onwards and until further notice by the Workers' Group on the Permit of the Representative Eirik Sivertsen on the 12th and 13th of June in order to take part in the meeting of the Arctic Parliamentary Committee in London; On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates from the Nordland County are invited to meet during the leave period: Kjell-Idar Juvik and Grethe Andersen
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e282	Grethe Andersen is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e293	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that case No. 38 – Unit – to be addressed before case No. 1st@item: inlistbox – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Furthermore, the President will inform you that today's meeting will continue beyond noon. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e376	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e385	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in dealing with the legislative proposal on the establishment of low-threshold services for dealing with sexual harassment issues and proposals on the obligation of activity and presentation. I first present the Committee's position on the low-threshold offer, then the obligation of activity and presentation, which will be referred to hereafter as the ARP. The legislative proposal to set up a low threshold offer is a follow-up to the request decision 602 from the examination of Document 8:75 S for 2017-2018, Innst. 208 S for 2017-2018. A unanimous increase then decided to introduce a low threshold offer for the enforcement of sexual harassment cases. In addition, it was decided that the Discrimination Study should be given the power to provide redress and compensation in such cases. Discrimination will then be empowered to enforce cases of sexual harassment. In addition, the provision of guidance and assistance to persons who are subjected to sexual harassment is strengthened, and the latter is given the power to provide upliftment in matters of employment and compensation in some cases. The Metoo campaign from last year's updated sexual harassment on a level we've never seen before. I'm sure if it hadn't been for that campaign, we wouldn't have had the political treatment we have here today. Unfortunately, sexual harassment is common in most areas of society, but the Metoo campaign, and among others. The living conditions survey by the Central Bureau on the working environment shows that sexual harassment is definitely a problem in the workplace — especially in the accommodation and catering sector, in the health and social sector, as well as in the cultural sector, where the Metoo campaign started, but also elsewhere in the labour market. The establishment of the low-threshold service will provide persons exposed to sexual harassment with a rapid and free alternative to legal proceedings. Although one today has access to bring in cases of sexual harassment before the courts, the case law shows that very few cases when there, then the threshold there is high. This is why the low-threshold offer we are adopting today is particularly dear to most of the hearing bodies – not least to those who work a lot with the victims. However, there has been a concern from some hearing bodies that legal certainty would not be adequately ensured by the fact that the matter is now given authority to deal with cases. Let me stress, on behalf of the Committee, that the legal certainty of both parties is central to us, and that we are confident that the name has the necessary competence to deal with these matters. In sum, we are adopting a proposal today on which there is broad political agreement and which is in line with what the Stortinget adopted last year. It sends an important signal that sexual harassment is to be controlled — not silent or forgotten. The change in the ARP is a follow-up to the Stortingen request decision 1119 for 2016-2017. The aim of the proposal in the proposal is to promote gender equality with underlying structures and systems in all areas of society. Gender equality is, as we all know, an important societal issue that requires systematic and targeted efforts at all levels. The Committee notes that the ministry of the proposal has tried to balance a strengthening of the ARP with simplification and bureaucratisation. It is in the latter case that the government parties and the opposition separate layers. The centre party is generally in favour of what is proposed by the government; at the same time, we believe that the ambition to trigger the ARP in companies with between 20 and 50 employees has limited possibilities to become a reality as the proposal exists. That's stupid, after all. 98 pst. by enterprises in Norway have fewer than 50 employees. Indeed, there is good reason to question whether the obligations proposed will in reality have an impact on gender equality when the obligation to make representation is only triggered when one of the social partners in private enterprises with 50 or fewer employees so requires. The centre party, together with the Workers’ Party and the SV, therefore promotes proposals that the obligation to make presentations should also apply to private enterprises employing between 20 and 50 employees — in any case. We also promote proposals that age should be included in the legal basis for discrimination, for which many hearing bodies have argued very well. It's a little incomprehensible to me why not the whole hall joins in, but maybe we can hear more about that today. With this I address our suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e402	The representative of Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e407	Today, we are dealing with two important issues with two very different backgrounds. I am very pleased that we are now finally adopting this low-threshold offer for dealing with issues of sexual harassment. For the last one and a half to almost two years, the Metoo campaign has been putting the floodlights on the social problem of sexual harassment. I'm glad that this grassroots campaign got this up in the public debate. We've all become more aware of the extent of it, that it's happening all around us, and we've become more aware that politics has to come up with more tools to deal with it. Adopting a low threshold for dealing with sexual harassment when sexual harassment has taken place is extremely important. We know that the threshold to go to the police to take it to the court system is too large. Many hesitate to do it, and even more leave it. I hope that being able to address you will make sure that more people have a place they feel they can do with this kind of thing, which can solve it, so that they can get their case dealt with and get an uplift. That's good. However, we must not forget that the policy of the Metoo is not finished with this decision. A low threshold offer for dealing with sexual harassment is about resolving the cases where it has occurred. The most important policy is to prevent sexual harassment. Then we have to work on the broad gender equality policy on all fronts – in kindergarten, in school, in the workplace – with attitudes and gender stereotypes that make many, especially girls, subject to sexual harassment. The second issue we are adopting today is a so-called strengthening and modification of the obligation to report and activity. The road here has been winding and long. It is almost three years since the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party proposed to the government to come back to the Storting with a strengthening of the duty of activity and presentation, in line with the Skeie Committee's proposal in its NOU a few years earlier. We received a majority for this – against the votes of the Right and the Advance Party. It was so that at the same time as we decided to do this in this room in 2017, the Progress Party and the Right were concerned that they would liquidate the obligation to report and weaken the obligation to do so. It was their priority position at the time, but the Workers' Party, SV, Left and Christian People's Party had prevented them from completing the duty of reporting and weakening the duty of activity. Against the will of the Right and the Advance Party, they have worked on the proposal we have before us today. It was also the case that the Financial Committee, through an incurrence – I would say – terminated the reporting obligation in respect of the budget in 2017, when they exempted small and medium-sized enterprises from the annual report. There was then nothing to report about the equality in. But now we're here that we're going to reintroduce it. We are satisfied with much of what is in the proposal. We believe that it meets the request decision at one point, that of making the obligation of activity more qualitatively good. But we believe that the request decision is not followed up on another point, that one should also strengthen the reporting obligation. In the past, all enterprises had to report when it came to sex – ‘all enterprises’ are all enterprises that regularly employ more than five people – while the government’s solution is now about, as the rapporteur said, that all enterprises with more than 50 employees are subject to reporting obligations. All enterprises with more than 20 employees may be subject to reporting obligations if the parties so require. That means that still going to be 98 pst. by enterprises of Norway are not subject to reporting obligations. What's the problem with that? Well, it's kind of like saying to a school class that you have to do homework, but we're not going to check. Therefore, the opposition has reassembled on a proposal that we believe is good, which says that all companies with over 20 employees should be subject to reporting obligations. There will be an improvement in the government's proposals, but at the same time there will be a liberalisation of the legislation that was a few years ago. If we want equality, we also need tools to do it. The duty of activity and presentation is one of the most important tools we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e428	I'm glad there's a low threshold offer for people who experience sexual harassment. The Metoo campaign and statistics of the Central Statistical Office show that the extent of sexual harassment is shocking, and it is quite broad. Few cases unfortunately end up in the courts, and it's about not being able to afford to go to court because of a personal burden – and of course it can also be of an economic nature. Therefore, it is important to get an offer. Now there are some people who believe that taking cases from the courts weakens the judicial system and the courts, but we have come to a different conclusion, while at the same time hearing what these environments mean. Sexual harassment is terrible for those who experience it. There is a lack of safety in the workplace, and it also says something about participation in the labour market and can ultimately lead to people dropping out of the labour market. It is especially young women who are exposed to sexual harassment. One in five women is exposed to violence, harassment and harassment in the workplace. But men too are subjected to sexual harassment. It's perhaps even higher the threshold for men to report sexual harassment. This may be especially true in the outdoor industry. Also in the health sector, one in five men experiences violence and also sexual harassment and threats at work. This low-threshold scheme makes it easier to report, but we still have to work very hard with attitudes. The Nordic Council recently organised a round table conference here at Stortinget on the occasion of the President's visit. It's great that the Nordic Council Presidency is addressing gender equality on its agenda. A report from the Council of Europe also has shocking figures for sexual harassment. It was also addressed at the same conference. I am very pleased that the presidency of the Grand President has said that one wants to look further at sexual harassment among politicians. I think we're losing a lot of people who might be going into politics, just because you're experiencing sexual harassment, especially in the form of almost hate messages online. We've seen a lot of examples of that. Going to business is resource-intensive, it's scary, and you feel like you're getting the public's eyes on you. This is why having a lowthreshold offer can counteract this. Many are also uncertain as to how the legal system works at all and tens instead of raising its voice. It shall be easy to address the Discrimination Study both orally and in writing, and this will probably lead to more reporting. At the same time, it is important to stress the presence of the objection principle. Opposers of the scheme claim that the name can be used to file cases without reality — if, for example: should be a conflict in a workplace. But when it comes to setting up a separate department and you get judges with experience in these matters, I think those concerns will disappear. I don't have time to go into the obligation to explain. I hear the arguments that companies with less than 50 employees should be obliged to make presentations. I am pleased that we have put a line on 50 employees. It's about time to report, it's about time to investigate, and it's about more than reporting, because it's also about taking action and investigating what's going on in the company.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e441	There is no doubt that metoo, which was launched in the autumn of 2017, in social media, did much for the social debate. At one point, the fight against sexual harassment actually became a major issue in society — not one day too early, if you ask many questions. Nor is there any doubt that it was high time to tackle sexual harassment as a far broader problem than what you might have done in the past. Too many have been subjected to harassment, and too many have felt that they have had to endure it. For me, it is important to stress from this pulpit that this is a problem that not only affects women. It also affects men, as mentioned earlier from the pulpit. We also know that some gay people have been untrue to this, and they feel that it is important that their stories too come out. I'm very happy that the media has also put some focus on it. Too many people have actually had their careers ruined or slowed down because of this, reduced their chances of living as they please, or felt that you can't live without fear of harassment. Some forms of harassment have been reported, some have been reported, and some have actually been convicted, but too many cases of harassment have never reached the court. In some businesses, people have grown up enough to tackle harassment, and fortunately, it has been a culture against such behavior. But where culture has been poor, harassment has been able to continue. There is therefore a need to provide a low threshold for the treatment of such cases. We have promised this on the government platform, and now we deliver on it. I'm glad that our government partners, like us, are concerned with legal certainty. It is very important that anyone who has been exposed to something wrong, whether it is the accused and any third parties, experience legal certainty. There are arguments that only ordinary judicial proceedings could provide sufficient legal certainty. Some of the hearings that came in were problematical about the transfer of such cases to a mention. Fortunately, the proposal is so clear that this type of examination will also be good. In cases where one party disagrees with the treatment, it may always be appealed against. The advantage of such consideration is that it will be able to avoid a number of minor cases and not burden the legal system. I am also pleased that the system, as mentioned in the vote, should be evaluated. It is usually appropriate to evaluate new schemes, and in this case, where we extend the issues to be addressed, an evaluation becomes particularly important. I know that it is not only we in the Progress Party who are particularly concerned about this, and I think it is nice that the government parties are united that the system should be evaluated gradually. All in all, I think that today we are taking a long step in the right direction – away from a society where there are opportunities for someone to harass, and that we are now taking this seriously, so that others can let this go. I would also like to stress that, of course, good law is important, and that we have low thresholds, but this is a social problem that we all have a responsibility to take very seriously. I hope this could be an important contribution to that fight.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e456	The struggle for a society in which women and men have equal opportunities is far from being targeted. Suppressive structures continue to hinder women's freedom and unfairly distribute power and wealth. The struggle for liberation waged by the women's movement and the left-hand side for many decades must continue in order for no one to be restricted by gender. We've known for a long time that sexual harassment is a major social problem. Nevertheless, the metoo campaign was absolutely necessary to put the spotlight on the renunciation of women's freedom as sexual harassment is. An important milestone in the fight against sexual harassment came – I would say – as a result of the Metoo movement, namely that we were finally adopted in Stortinget to put in place a low-threshold offer to deal with sexual harassment. For too long, those affected by sexual harassment, in practice, have often been lawless, without going anywhere for justice. With the support of the Metoo movement, we received from the opposition a majority for the SV's proposal to introduce the low-threshold offer last year, so that those affected can go to the discrimination topic of uprooting and compensation. We also gained insight into strengthening the help of the gender equality ombudsman for guidance. Now this is implemented in practice, and it's worth celebrating. I'm not going to use this day to compete for who has the credit for it all. The left has proposed to investigate this earlier. It is commendable, but it should and must be said that it was not exactly a great deal of support to get from the government parties when SV and Red proposed this last year, and managed to fight it into a decision after SV at the party leader's meeting took the initiative to make a settlement on sexual harassment. That's no matter what the story is. The most important thing now is to put in place a really low threshold that can give people the justice they need after being subjected to harassment. If this offer is to work properly, we need to listen to both the equality officer and all the others who have said in the hearing that there is a need for increased resources to be mentioned, especially in order to be able to handle these matters properly. It is the government's choice to overlook when, in the chapter on economic and administrative consequences, they choose to pretend that a greater responsibility will not give rise to more tasks. It does not just keep up with the matter. If the offer is to be good from the start, we need to increase resources for both names and agents. So to the matter of the obligation of activity and presentation. These obligations are not an end in themselves to equality, but are important tools in the gender equality campaign, especially in the workplace. Therefore, it is nice that the government finally comes back to Stortingen with this matter, after the opposition got a majority to strengthen the obligation to report and activity a few years ago. But considering how these obligations were before 2017, a lot has happened that makes us not left with stronger tools throughout this field. For example, before 2017, all employers are required to report on sex. Since then, the reporting obligation was almost completely removed – I hear someone call it an incurrency – by a change in the accounting law. Now we are left with a number of graduations on the obligation of activity, reporting obligations and documentation obligations, where it is largely the private enterprises with more than 50 employees for which there are clear gender equality requirements, while the others escape. That means exemption for 96 pst. by the enterprises. There is no need to dampen the gender equality requirements in the labour market. I think the last two years show why. Therefore, SV in this case proposes to strengthen these tools to the full, so that all private employers with more than 20 employees have to account for gender equality in their activities. It was just supposed to be missing.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e471	I am pleased that we can stand here today and debate a matter that provides important and long-lasting concrete answers to not only people's expectations after last year's metro-round, but also to some of the actual gender equality challenges we still have. Furthermore, I am glad that there is such a total amount of money in favour of these changes, because it shows that political Norway has taken people seriously and that people have been listened to. Earlier this year, I was so lucky to be part of the Norwegian delegation to the United Nations Women's Commission – this at a time when we see clear steps backwards for gender equality work globally, where we have a major act that targets the funding of organisations working for sexual and reproductive health rights, and where more and more countries introduce laws and rules that prevent people from living free lives and experiencing full equality. Then I knew that it was good to know that we in Norway are, after all, inter-politically united about the major lines of equality policy, as we are doing in large parts of the matter we are dealing with here today. Last year we saw the metoo uprising give people concrete examples of how sexual harassment affects people's everyday lives, and how it creates obstacles and barriers in working life or in study life. We continue to see new examples coming up. It's good for the media to focus on this, because it's only when we talk about it, that we become aware that we have to do something about it. That's why the campaign has had something to say for the decision we're making here today. This case is also a recognition that it has been too high a threshold for very many people to get a fair and proper handling of their case before the court. The establishment of a low-threshold service for dealing with issues of sexual harassment has been very important to us in the Left too. The left proposed this all the way back when Stortinget examined the proposal for the Discrimination Ombudsman Act. When the matter was re-examined by Stortinget last year, it drew up a time frame that makes us stand here today with an actual proposal from the government. Ensuring people in a vulnerable situation an actual opportunity to get their case evaluated, to get credited for overtramping and get a worthy, secure framework around it, is incredibly important, all the time we're going to take the metoo campaign seriously. Legal certainty has also been a matter of concern to several hearing bodies. But then it is important for me to remember that legal certainty is protection from the abuse and arbitraryness of the public. It is the possibility of predicting its own legal position and the possibility of defending its legal interests. It is essential that the person or persons making the decision have the necessary competence, disability and have not taken external account of the decision. We made this right when, in the past, we dealt with and established the new discrimination topic, which now also has the task of dealing with the issues of sexual harassment. It has been fundamental to the work we have done in this field, to ensure that the legal position of all those involved in such treatment is good. The equality struggle is a tough fight. It's about attitudes and major structural changes that it turns out to be difficult to turn around overnight. Then it's important to have sufficient knowledge. It helps us in the second part of this proposal by the government, namely the strengthening of the obligation to report and activity. I am pleased that this matter is finally coming to Stortinget, and I am pleased that the reinforcement takes into account that the smallest companies are going to let go of increased bureaucracy. In this context, it is important to note that a documentary obligation is also introduced for businesses, which takes into account increased awareness of gender equality efforts while at the same time wanting to limit the amount of bureaucracy for the smallest enterprises. So, overall, the new obligation of activity and presentation ensures that we gain increased knowledge and knowledge of the actual conditions of the enterprises.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e490	Sexual harassment is a serious obstacle to achieving equality. The extent of sexual harassment and assault is a significant social problem in many countries. We politicians are responsible for ensuring adequate legislation, because the real equality that the law requires requires requires an active commitment to gender equality. We need to ensure that all girls and boys, women and men can move freely and safely both inside and outside, privately and in the workplace, without being subjected to unwanted sexual acts and harassment. As many have been involved, it's not that long since we saw women standing up and telling about violence, harassment and assault by posting'metoo' in social media. We know that young women are a particularly vulnerable group. Today's attitude is therefore also a tribute to those who chose to share, and thus showed us that democracy and freedom of expression live at best in Norway today. But they also showed us how important it is with a low threshold. It means a lot when profiled people, celebrities, stand up and tell about their experiences related to sexual assault and harassment. It can help to counteract the feeling of shame, which is often an obstacle, and which causes many people not to dare to report. The Christian People's Party believes that more action is needed to prevent sexual abuse and harassment, because the investigations and the methotrexate campaign have shown us that the scope is more extensive than we thought. Teaching about boundaries, respect and equivalency must be strengthened in school and kindergarten. Action plans and awareness-raising campaigns to prevent sexual harassment and abuse need to be developed in the workplace, attitudes generally need to be strengthened, and a low-threshold offer that is easily accessible and capable of resolving issues of sexual harassment at the lowest possible level must be established – a free and just as good alternative as those with low income. I notice that, in the form of a comment, there is so much doubt as to whether the government is following up the request decision that led up to this matter, but I think that is exactly what we are doing. It reinforces the obligation of presentation and the introduction of documentation requirements is an enhancement of gender equality, while at the same time the obligation is proportionate to the size and resources of the business. The changes proposed increase the level of equality obligations, while at the same time simplifying the daily lives of traders, especially small businesses. This proposal for a law is precisely in keeping with this. The Christian People's Party therefore votes in favour of the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e501	With these changes, we are providing a low threshold for dealing with sexual harassment issues and strengthening the obligation to provide information to employers and public authorities. The Equality and Discrimination Act should contribute to real equality. However, the level of sexual harassment is alarmingly high, providing good protection against discrimination and harassment. Studies and the Metoo campaign show that sexual harassment occurs in most areas of society. We need a low-threshold service and a reinforced counselling and assistance service for people who are exposed to sexual harassment. The government is now taking the necessary action by setting up a low-threshold service where persons exposed to sexual harassment can get a quick and free alternative to legal proceedings. This is a milestone in the fight against sexual harassment. In particular, young women are exposed to sexual harassment. One in five young women is exposed to threats, violence or harassment in the workplace, but sexual harassment also affects men, especially men in women-dominated professions. We know that one in five men in the health and care sector has experienced this. I am concerned about legal certainty for both parties. Discrimination is a particularly competent dispute resolution mechanism in cases of discrimination. The form of proceedings facilitates counter-dictation. The term consists of highly competent members. The chairperson shall have judicial experience and a period of practical experience is required. In addition, the parties are granted the right to require oral treatment, which opens up the hearing of parties and witnesses. I stress that discrimination is not intended to deal with sexual offences under the criminal law. It shall be dealt with by ordinary courts. In order to achieve effective protection against discrimination, it is also empowered to impose adjudicates on cases, such as against the employer, and damages in some cases. The interests to be protected by anti-discrimination legislation are so central that there must be reasonable and effective sanctions with preventive effect. Gender equality requires systematic and targeted efforts. The obligation of activity and presentation under the Equality and Discrimination Act is an important tool for achieving the objectives of real equality. These obligations are not properly complied with in practice. The general obligation of activity for employers is extended to cover complex discrimination. However, the obligation of activity does not apply to age discrimination. These changes require employers to pay particular attention to situations that may lead to discrimination on several grounds of discrimination at the same time. Women with a minority background may, for example: be discriminated against in the labour market. We also introduce a pay-as-you-go obligation. This will identify differences in pay between women and men in enterprises and provide a good basis for assessing the risk of discrimination. The government will ensure a good balance between a strengthened duty of activity and presentation and the simplification and red tape objective. The obligation to provide information must be strengthened, while at the same time taking into account the need to simplify the everyday life of traders, especially small businesses. Small enterprises have a more general and flexible obligation to operate and smaller enterprises have a documentation obligation that is easier to follow up. When these changes are adopted, we have taken another important step in the further work on equality and against discrimination. I wish Mr Stortinget every success in the debate and in the consideration of these proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e521	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e526	We know that one of the main challenges in working life is access to labour in the longer term. We also know that a main objective for our welfare state to go around is that we get more people working, and that more people are working longer. We also know that this political objective, which we all share, is challenged by the fact that at least parts of the labour force have prejudices related to older workers, and that very many older people in the labour market and in the workplace feel forced out and pushed out. Age discrimination is something that is definitely a lot of in the workplace. Why, then, does the government feel that age discrimination should not be included in the obligation of activity and presentation?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e531	When we go in and strengthen the obligation to report as we do now, we have also discussed the obligation of activity for employers relating to the age of discrimination. However, it was not included in this bill, because we believe that we need to continue working on what kind of framework we need for that law. This is already regulated in the Working Environment Act and in other legislation throughout this field, so it is nevertheless affected. But our assessment up until now, as indicated by the bill, is that we will assess whether, if necessary, an investigation should be started on this whole issue at a later stage. We don't think we have enough research into it in the background that exists to extend the obligation of activity to age.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e536	All the bases covered by the obligation of activity and presentation are laid down in other legislation, in the environmental protection law or in the equality and discrimination law, etc., e.g. gender equality, anti-discrimination, equal pay, etc., so that age is already in the Working Environment Act, there is no reason for it not to enter into the obligation of activity and presentation. I am a little surprised at the reason, because it has been several years since the Stortinget adopted the request decision on a new and strengthened duty of activity and presentation. The government has had years to investigate this, so I'm a little surprised that something as important as the discrimination-based age, which we know is extensive and blaring about, has not been evaluated here. Why has the government not taken that time and evaluated it, so that they could make a real proposal here in the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e541	I will admit that there has been an additional pressure to strengthen the equality part of this, so we have enough pussiness to get it out as quickly as possible. But as we write in the billing proposal, we believe that an investigation should be initiated on this issue at a later stage. For us, it was important to put the gender dimension in place, and age discrimination is followed up in relation to the obligation of activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e546	Then we hope that it will be started as soon as possible. In the review of the ARP part of the proposal here today, several representatives of the government parties continue to maintain that there is a strengthening of the reporting obligation. This is not what we see behind the request decision, for the reason that a tool as important as the ARP, which has ensured equality in the workplace, for gender statistics and that we know how businesses work, is now actually weakening, because fewer enterprises are subject to the reporting obligation. As I said in my post, it's kind of like saying to a school class that you have to do homework, work for equality, but we're not going to check. This does not mean that we do not have confidence in Norwegian companies, but we know that the reporting obligation has been crucial for the quality of the work and that we, as authorities, know what the state of work is. I think the council thinks it's okay that almost 99 pst. of Norwegian enterprises are not now required to report?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e553	Now I've been in this room for so long that I remember how it disappeared, and I think you're going to assume that when you create systems where people don't make sense to report, it's going to undermine the whole reporting system over time. Then the wise things also disappeared in a decision here in Stortinget, because there was too much burden on many small businesses. And I just want to say, it's obvious that this is a very important tool, but when we're talking about businesses with one employee, it's not sure that it's that effective. The large size of businesses that this is being talked about, with small businesses, usually has only one employee, the one who owns the company. I think it's important that we have a lot of companies with one employee, because I think it's great in the workplace that people are involved in creating their own sails. Then we shouldn't mess with them with bureaucracy, and that's exactly who we've now given a relief in bureaucracy. This will strengthen the understanding of reporting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e558	I hear the reason why age is not included in Section 26, about the obligation to work for employers. But I can't help but wonder whether the minister thinks age is as important a field of discrimination as all the others covered by the law. How important is it for the Minister to deal with age discrimination versus the areas that have been addressed when the government has presented this bill?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e563	I do not want to rank what are the worst grounds for discrimination. I believe that everyone in this Chamber is against discrimination, whatever the basis for discrimination. I will admit that we have had a great desire to quickly get the gender equality report in place. So we have to have a proper process for how we're going to be able to expand this in a good way. I also believe that this must be done in dialogue with the companies, so that we do not get systems that they do not think make sense to report on. We need to get a report that actually increases the awareness of all business managers to prevent discrimination in their own workplaces. Then there are many who break away and do a great job of showing how important it is that we do not have discrimination in the different fields. But I don't want to say that one of them is more important than the other. I think all the grounds for discrimination are equally important.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e572	It is gratifying that we can finally stand here and get through low-threshold enforcement of the ban on sexual harassment. It is the perpetrator of the assault, who must bear the consequences, not the victim. Nevertheless, the Equality Ombudsman, JURK, the Women’s Lobby and almost all the other hearing bodies in this case are concerned, because despite increased tasks both in the field and in the representation, the Council of State does not warn of increased resources – in a situation where the names and representatives have already received a real cut of 12 posts as a result of previous reorganisation. In addition, they experienced a real decline in the government budget of the year after price and salary growth. How are those who are subjected to sexual harassment to good and proper assistance if neither the Ombudsman nor the name has the resources to help them?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e577	That's how we deal with the law in one round, and then we deal with the budget in the next round. I'm not going to tell you what's going to be our draft budget in this area. Then the representative’s questions will be much more appropriate, because that is when we have to decide the resource framework for the offers to be there. What's important to us today is to talk about that we need proper jurisdiction. We need people who understand that these are complicated things that you have to deal with in a slightly different way, because they often say words against words. We also see that our legal system has challenges with it when it comes to it. Now we're going to pass the law. We also adopt the professional expectations of the law. Then we will discuss the budget for these institutions when the government budget comes to the harvest.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e585	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e592	I sat and listened to the debate and finally decided to make a small contribution, since I did not hear the undertone that you can trace in any of the things that are written in a comment by the majority. It's that you're doing some kind of legal action here that's not entirely unthinkable. Let me start by saying that sexual harassment — the more serious cases — is both morally and criminally unacceptable. What is then the question is whether a low-threshold offer is nevertheless what ensures good enough legal certainty to those who may be exposed to false complaints. It is an opposing consideration that legislators, i.e. the Storting, have to discuss when entering into such instruments, which aim to meet the criteria of common criminal law, namely behavioural regulation. What you're doing in this case is mobilizing an administrative way of punishing, which is not entirely unproblematic, and which has also been up to EMD several times. The problem with this is that there are other evidence requirements. Probability weight will be enough. Then you could say that the connection to the rest of the criminal system is obvious, because you can sue the courts. But then you have turned what is common, that is, that it is the one who claims to have broken the law, that is, the prosecution authority, who has to give evidence – you get the reverse burden of proof. I can understand that there is a majority for a low-threshold offer, but I would have liked to see you more aware of the fact that there are completely respectable and welcome counter-conceptions against this way of solving it. I also have to say that in this I see a certain degree of accountability to the ordinary judicial work we have, because I agree that it is working too slowly, and the police may not be so informed about these matters in some context, but that is when we have to insist that the judiciary and the police can function in a better way. There are also other privacy violations than those that have been sexually accentuated. So I'm afraid we're getting a low-threshold offer that can turn out to be more summary, and that doesn't really give the same legal certainty. For who really wants to employ someone who is fielded administratively? I want to draw attention to the concerns that can be made clear in legal terms.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e603	I have a lot of understanding of the concerns that the representative Tetzschner has, but I want to come up with a rug. We have actually had a strong and good law in this field in Norway for quite a while. We just don't have a thing, nobody uses the law. There has hardly been a case for the court on this topic. Does that mean that it doesn't happen, or does that mean that there are no cases before the court? I think it's raised above any doubt that you think it's not happening. Then, too, my question: do we have a tradition of conflict resolution in the workplace that in such a difficult situation can best be met with dialogue? We have tripartite cooperation in Norway, established by Prime Minister Mowinckel. We have a system in which we have many dispute settlements in the workplaces that are about dialogue. I believe that raising these issues – which are difficult – between people a little bit further down and not necessarily making it a desire to have everyone in the courtroom, will contribute to an easier way of resolving conflicts – that you might be able to enter into an earlier stage and have a dialogue at work that will reduce the level of conflict instead of addressing the level of conflict. So I notice that the majority also wants an evaluation, and it's probably a good idea to have. I believe that the legal security framework around it has been respected. My wish is that more cases should be addressed, more cases should be discussed, more cases should be negotiated in and more cases should actually lift and dry up. I think a wish that all such things should enter the judiciary is not a good wish for the fight against sexual harassment. In those countries where there are many cases of this kind in the judiciary, it is also not seen that the same attitudes are changed as what we want to achieve, as is done in those countries that have such issues, and are able to solve them at a lower level. My wish is that this should also contribute to changes in attitudes over time, because dialogue and less confrontation lead to better solutions at the workplace. The goal is not to get as many people as possible convicted, the goal is to get as much sexual harassment as possible in any workplace.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e616	I was actually going to comment on Tetzschner's posts, but it seems to me that the Council of State did so brilliantly that I can join everything she now said. This debate shows a little bit of what's really the difference between the right-hand side and the left-hand side. It has been repeated several times that the old – to put it that way – duty of activity and reporting was not good enough. Then it's typically the right side to fall to the conclusion that then the whole thing has to be liquidated and removed. We have seen that in other political issues as well. For example, when one found out that the youth guarantee at Nav did not work well enough, it could only be liquidated. The left side, the opposition, has other positions, other ways to go. We believe that when something doesn't work well enough, we make it work well enough. Then we change and strengthen it. That's why the Workers' Party, SV, Left and Christian People's Party at the time got a majority to strengthen the duty of activity and presentation in line with what the Skjeie Committee had proposed. Half of that is happening here today. The quality of the activity obligation is strengthened, and it is good, but the reporting obligation is weakened. Then it's the tool that ARP has been, weakened, and it's a shame. If we think we're going to have more equality, it's the working life that's the arena to work. When we weaken one of the important tools, we're in a worse position to move forward. It is said from someone here in the Chamber that the Workers' Party wants more bureaucracy. No, that's not right. It is not right, as the Council of State said, that if there is one person, a person should report on gender equality. It is not the case that individual or two-employee enterprises have previously had a reporting obligation. All enterprises with more than five employees had gender reporting obligations. We suggest that all enterprises with more than 20 employees should be subject to reporting obligations on all the basis of which the activity obligation now applies. So that's a weakening of the system we had before 2017. It is not possible to say that the opposition will add more bureaucracy when several companies had this in 2017. It's getting fewer now. But we don't think it's possible that 99 pst. enterprises of Norway shall not be covered by this important equality tool. That is what the government parties and the majority are adopting today. That's what we think sad, and it's historyless, because the duty of activity and presentation is one of the most important equality policy tools. It's a practical tool, and it's worked. We know that we have major gender issues in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e627	First, thank you to the representative Tetzschner, who reflected on why we're doing the change we're doing. I understand the scepticism, but it is a political decision that I believe is right in relation to low-threshold offers. I think it's important that it's been confirmed here several times that we have the objection principle, the leaders of which are going to have judgment experience, we're going to have a secretariat and tutors with special competence. But that's not what I understand Tetzschner is concerned about – it's probably more the principle that more and more areas of society are going out of the justice system and into, now, low-threshold services. I think it's worth reflecting around. But, as I said, I think this is right, and then we're going to evaluate whether we actually, as the Council of State said, get more things. Zero is too bad when we know what's going on. Then I get to say from this pulpit: I'm probably the only representative here who's been reported to the Discrimination Board. It was about me admitting as a principal that we were giving scholarships to girls. In order to increase the share of technology training, they were to receive a scholarship for travel and equipment, and I was then appealed to the name. It's part of the story that I wasn't convicted. The meaning of the term was different from that of those who had appealed to me. So at least I have an experience with how this happens. Then to the obligation of activity and presentation. My experience is also that if you as a manager of a country, municipality or business, whether you have three employees, 20 employees or 200 employees, are not engaged in gender equality, it is not concerned that it should be practised in terms of salary, allocation of offices and functions within a management group, it helps little to report. Because if it is to be of great value, you also have to have penalties at the other end. I think it's important to report, so we get an overview of it. It's mind-creating in itself. But that's not enough. Leadership needs to be challenged — whether in the case of NHO, business associations, municipalities or countries. It is the manager who has to go ahead as an example and address these matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e636	Only a short note at the end. I also thought it was opportune for the debate that one was aware that certain legal choices were made by leaving to the administration to carry out what has so far been the task of the courts and the task of the police, namely to investigate, rectify and make a judgment. Then you put in administrative units, whose way of working in other contexts is not completely clear. Now we're talking about other supervisory bodies that are given, for example. fee authority. You call it fees, you don't have to meet the usual certification requirements. However, in the case of those affected, for example: Of withdrawals in the hundreds of thousands of krona class — that is to say, there is a theoretical difference whether there is actually a legal punishment or whether it is a charge — the purpose is precisely to influence the behaviour. I just want to invite you with this for further reflection on the system that you're going to enter. Because, as the majority emphasises, it is very encouraging to get a low-threshold offer. But it's really, I see it as, an indirect recognition that the ordinary court system works too slowly – the police are too overburdened to be mobilised for quite serious circumstances. I believe that the conditions we are talking about here, sexual harassment, are not something to be taken lightly. This applies to all parties to such a process. I also want to end by saying that I hope the State Council of Skei Grande gets right by saying that this is going to be excellent, and that there will be fine dialogues. But she also said in a previous post that here there were often words against words. It's precisely because we don't have the procedural rules to separate claims from realities, and that's a good investigation and, we'll say, a court that works on the basis of established procedural rules, that can do. As a result, I have a somewhat greater concern about the legal certainty of this approach, but of course I am very pleased that the evaluation point has agreed to gain experience from reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e647	The South is a great place to live, but when it comes to equality, it's a little bit worse. The proportion of women in the labour force has declined from 2015 to 2017, both in East-Agder and in West-Agder, from 76,5 to 72.1 and 73,9 to 69,9 respectively. The proportion of women in the private and public sectors and among managers has remained still in the last few years. The equal opportunities project, which is a certification scheme, has good results in private business, but they still feel that the ministry is not using them well enough. They've contacted the ministry to spread their knowledge, but they've waited a very long time for answers, and I don't think they've been answered yet. The equality centre at the UiA is doing a good job, but would like to do more. They need to do more, and they need more resources, but neither has this government found important enough to prioritise. There is no doubt that there are policy lines in equality policy, both in terms of appropriations and in terms of the instrument. The Labour Party was very pleased that we received a request decision together with the Christian People's Party that has now resulted in this matter, even though, as has been explained here, we believe that the proposal is rather weakened, because it does not follow up as vigorously as the opposition would wish. What we are discussing also has a rather dark background, which is about hate – hate against women, hate against minorities. Monica Csango writes about it, in an article about the hatred of Jews in the VG in May this year. She writes that those who hate Jews hate other minorities—Romans, Muslims, gays, lesbians and transsexuals. Some men seem to hate that women get power, authority, and influence on equal lines with men. That's why we've got the She should stop campaign, and that's why we've got action against hate chat online. But the very best vaccine against both hate talk and to promote a clear equality is that one believes that gender equality is right, right and true. That is the background to the impatience of the Workers' Party. We believe that the best vaccine is powerful instruments from the state in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e660	During the Minister's first post, I was so happy that I shared a Facebook post that the decision we make in the hall is very positive, but then the representative Tetzschner comes and chooses to problematize and criticise the decision under the cover of reflection. I think that's very sad. Since the chairman of the committee chose to divide a little bit from the pulpit, so do I. When I was young, I quit three jobs because of sexual harassment. It was not harassment that approached the country of rape, but it was enough for me not to be able to go to work. In one job we were many who experienced this. We talked about going to court, but it's too high a threshold. It was totally out of date. We didn't dare. We thought it was too difficult. Since the proposal on the low-threshold offer came up, I have often thought that we had used it. Therefore, I think it is a little sad that this debate should end with questioning whether this is a good offer. I wonder what kind of other measures the hall has intended to introduce after metoo if not this. I am also quite critical of things that are being said about whether legal certainty is not good enough. It has been documented from the pulpit today that it is. Even the denominator can't judge people without it being proven well enough. I would like to finish with a smiley, but I don't.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e669	I would also like to make a small post after the intervention by the representative Tetzschner. It is right to point out that we have made some choices over the time when decisions are to be taken, what authority is to be in the courts, and who are to be given different names. It is important to note in this room that many of the schemes work very well and have broad support, both in this room and in the rest of the population. By various bodies that have this kind of authority, we can mention the Competition Authority. There is one matter under discussion about the Labour Inspectorate. Matters about the Foreign Affairs Act go too easy. There's a matter of taking care of things, of coercion. Much has been added to the subject, precisely based on legal certainty, because an examination can help to create legal certainty by making more decisions in this area and ensuring that the practice is more consistent. Equality of law is also an important principle. When we know that the vast majority of sexual harassment cases are dealt with in businesses, in closed forums, we also know that the practice of how this is handled is very different from place to place. That's why we deserve a larger share of these cases to actually get a real deal of treatment. It is right to point out and to ask questions as to whether the Committee has taken into account legal certainty when considering the matter. I am happy to confirm that we have done so. Legal certainty, as I mentioned in my first post, has some assumptions. It is premise that the procedural and decision-making process is to be carried out in a reassuring and predictable manner, that good procedural rules are in place to ensure the legal certainty of the parties and to facilitate good and proper decisions, that the matter is settled within a reasonable time and while it is still topical and relevant, and that the objection principle is respected. All the things I mentioned now, we do in this case in a good way. I am also pleased that oral consultation is now ensured in all of these cases, so that people have a real opportunity to explain themselves, and all matters are handled in a good way. It's not like this, for example. Only things are about words against words. Of the issues that have been raised, have been clear and given examples over the past few years, there have also been cases where there is extensive evidence, which will also be treated in a good way with this scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e682	I really think it was a bit good that we got this round, because we're going to be able to clarify very much better what is the intention of the Storting and the government behind the proposal. I would like to say that this is not the case that the discrimination subject today has low confidence in the matters they have raised. There is a body that has great confidence, and there is very little discussion in the public space about the decisions being made. I think culture can, of course, be turned around by punishment, but basically I think culture in a workplace is best snuffed out by dialogue. I hope that these arrests also lead to more dialogue than they lead to punishment, and that this leads to more references than it leads to penalties. I think the Central Party representative was brave who told about his own experiences, which is actually a good description of what we want to do with the workplaces. We want to have a culture where one can say from the workplace, and where one can also say from a point higher up before one is ready to go to business. Then there's an argument that it's so unique that we're adding such a big decision to the subject and not to our legal system. I believe that saying whether people are allowed to stay in the country is a pretty big decision in these people's lives. That's something we've added here. Taking children out of a family is a pretty big decision, that's something we've chosen to mention. It's about health complaints, it's about big decisions in people's lives that we in this room have chosen to mention. These decisions usually concern the weakest in our society. This does not mean that legal certainty is so much more important when it comes to tightening up some executives in the workplace than it is when we are dealing with asylum seekers' right to stay or a family with less resources to keep their own children. I don't think it's a balance in that. I think this is something we can safely try as a better system to turn culture into Norwegian jobs – as we know we need to turn around.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e693	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e701	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Stortinges meeting this week and a President-in-Office of the Stortinges meeting tomorrow – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Svein Harberg for this week's meetings and Kari Henriksen for Stortinget's meeting tomorrow. – Other proposals are not available, and Svein Harberg is unanimously elected president of the current week’s meetings, and Kari Henriksen is unanimously elected president of tomorrow’s meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e721	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that there be no loopholes, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e731	I want to start by thanking the Committee for a good and effective cooperation. The Committee has been in agreement on what is contained in the legislative proposal, and it is therefore a unanimous committee which joins the proposals of the Ministry. The aim of the proposition has been to give municipalities greater freedom to make decisions about place names both in terms of the choice of place names and the way they are written. The proposed changes shall allow the adoption of several dialectic forms in the form of local names. It opens up that older and more traditional writings can be used more than today. In addition, it is followed up on the protection and use of Sami geographical names in NOU 2016: 18 Heart language – Legislative proposals, measures and schemes for Sami languages. The Committee welcomes the fact that municipalities are given greater freedom to choose their geographical names and take decisions on their spelling. At the same time, the Committee notes that several hearing bodies, such as the Language Council, the National Library, the Sametinget, Sogn and Fjordane County Council, Finnmark County Council, Norwegian Name Team, Hardanger People's Memory Team, Norway's target team, and the Nynorsk team, are negative to the proposal to move the sentence "Has the spelling been in use for a long time and is well known and incorporated, a deviation from the current spelling and spelling principle" from the Regulation to the City Name to Section 4 Rules on Writing, in the Act. There is concern that the consequences of this, inter alia: will result in different spellings leading to misinterpretation, a greater number of misspellings, or the replacement of old place names. It is also called into question whether the municipalities have sufficient professional competence to take decisions in line with the purpose of the site name law, which is important. The Committee understands the objections raised, but at the same time it will point out that guidelines have been given in the preparatory work for the use of the exemption rule in Section 4. The Ministry states that, when assessing the application of this rule of derogation, elements such as opinion, incorporated font tradition, content of opinion and local considerations shall be included in the assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e745	A unanimous committee considers it important to maintain that the general principle and general principle of the Local Name Act must be the continuation of traditional, inherited geographical names. This must be emphasised, also from this pulpit. Location names are not only the names of geographic locations, but also the source of knowledge about our history and language. Place names bear interesting information about the language, about the lives that have been lived, settlement, events, past societies, etc. Many geographical names are intangible cultural memories, some of which are probably the oldest cultural memories we have, and are therefore an important part of our cultural heritage – which we all, not least the municipalities, are supposed to take care of.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e749	First, I just have to thank the Committee for its good cooperation and the rapporteur, Mr Sem-Jacobsen. The Family and Culture Committee has dealt with this matter without particular disagreement on the content of the law. It is positive that municipalities are given greater power and freedom to choose geographical names and make decisions on their spelling. The aim of the amendment is to give municipalities greater freedom to make decisions about the place names and the way they are written. Place names are not just the names of geographic locations, but the source of information and knowledge about our history and language. This information is important and says something about what you can expect from places, and what characteristics they have. I thought I would mention a great example of a Sami town name I know well, Biggejávri at Masi in Finnmark. This name means the windwater, 'javri' means inland water in Sami. There is often a lot of wind, and the water is big, and then you can imagine that there are dangerous waves on the water. Biggerahpat — in Norwegian means ‘rahpat’, ‘who does not even gupa go’. Here's the foreign terrain that the name implies. It's steep and rocky, it's juws and gorges and almost not attainable. It is important that the Place Name Act helps us to keep these place names. Therefore, it is good that the law equates Sami, Norwegian and female geographical names with intangible cultural memories. The spelling of reindeer pastures is also to be incorporated into the law. The map shall be the method of writing decision for the reindeer grazing district, but the reindeer grazing districts themselves shall choose their names. In the consultation response from the Sameting, it is clear that there has been a need to clarify who is to take a decision on the spelling of the name of the reindeer grazing district. The Ministry states that there have also been no contradictions in the consultation round of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e767	In addition to that, I would like to refer to our comments on the matter, which are, of course, the Committee's comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e770	Our place names are like building blocks over Norwegian, Sami and female culture. They are among the oldest cultural memories we have – many of them a thousand years old. At the same time, they are in living use in our everyday lives – on road signs, in the name of our bus stops and our address. They're inherited through generations and pronounced in our different dialects. It's part of our language, and it provides information about ancient wandering veins, about religious life, old industry, old farms, small clearings, steep leaps and high nuts. But it's also moving us. I believe – without any scientific basis to say so – that most of the weapons use in Norwegian policy in the last 50 years has been about shooting on a divorce. The last time there was going to be violent riots in Trondheim, there was a discussion about the name of the city. The purpose of the City Name Law is to preserve local names as linguistic cultural memories. Where geographical names are to be displayed on signs and down on maps, they shall be given a form of font which is practical and which does not obscure the content of their opinions. The administration of the law is to ensure that we get to know the names of the places and that they are used by the public. The government is presenting today a proposal for changes to city name laws that affect both the choice of location name, the type of location name and the entry of their use. The proposed changes to the City Name Act will increase predictability and enforcement of the City Name Act in municipalities. It's local democracy in practice. We're also following up the Sámi language committee's investigation, the heart language, and the Sámi site name tape. I am very pleased that an overall committee agrees with the main content of the legislative amendment. The Committee highlights important points in its attitude. Among other things, the Committee wishes to continue the protection of names but agrees that changes in name usage over time should be considered as a particular reason for replacing a name with another. The Committee welcomes the fact that the views of municipalities are to be taken into account in the evaluations. The Committee also points out that it is important for the County to develop the necessary competence to assess complaints about incorrect use or the lack of use of municipally chosen geographical names. Therefore, the County can obtain a recommendation from the City Name Service. I believe that the proposed legislative amendment strikes a good balance between local democracy and cultural protection, between participation and municipal influence on decisions, the preservation of geographical names such as linguistic cultural memories and the practical features of local names in our modern infrastructure.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e789	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e805	At the request of the Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to three rows of replies are given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e814	As the rapporteur-in-Office, I will try to make a contribution to making this a relatively effective debate. Let me start by thanking the Committee for a good discussion of the matter. The case is primarily a legal clearance as a result of previously dealt with cases and request decisions. The amendments to the rules of the Broadcasting Act relating to the Broadcasting Council, which propose a more balanced and representative composition of the Council, are also to provide for detailed rules to be laid down in the regulation requiring the Broadcasting Council to give up on cases brought before the Technical Committee of the Press. It is also proposed that the decision-making competence for the approval of new NRK services be transferred from the King of State Council to the Media Regulatory Authority. With regard to accessibility for people with disabilities, several important and good measures are proposed. The proposition imposes more extensive requirements on broadcasters by extending the making available to new groups of disabled persons, through visual interpretation, sign language interpretation and audio text requirements. Furthermore, the Broadcasting Act shall, hereinafter, contain a general provision which determines the obligation of broadcasters to make content available and that the specific quantitative requirements are laid down in a regulation. The Committee has heard several hearings and noted that some consider that the Broadcasting Council is not compatible with the principles enshrined in the Editorial plaque and the law on editorial freedom in the media. Others have stated that the government that owns should not appoint members of the Broadcasting Board. These are not new moments, as the counter-representations were also raised when the Stortinget last discussed a draft representative on the subject. I also owe it to make it clear that SV refers to Innst. 254 S for 2018-2019, where they made their own proposal to close the Broadcasting Council. The Committee is of the opinion that the amendments proposed are all amendments which contribute to a clearer and better regulation. Therefore, an overall committee is behind the recommendation and agrees with the government's proposed amendments to the Broadcasting Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e831	New technologies, the removal of borders and open markets require major changes in many industries. We're looking at this in the industry, we're looking at it in the service sector, and we're definitely seeing it in the media sector -- huge changes, maybe the biggest since printing was invented. Digitalisation leads to brand-new business models, new payment models, cash flows that go completely different ways. Only in a few years has Norwegian media lost more in advertising revenue than the total Norwegian press support. Social media challenge press ethics, speed up and change the framework conditions. This is an incredibly important area of society, for this is the democratic infrastructure of a country, both for debate, for cultural communication, for social building, for criticism of power and for political processes. Therefore, it is very disappointing that the submitted media message only looks at the small changes in media support rather than going deeper into the large megatrends. Initially, we think that this message should have been sent back with the task of providing a real media message that goes deeper into the major trends, for example. looking at how new business models could ensure that the whole population has more access to quality content, looking at how to change the conditions of gravitating journalism, ensuring that our media support can contribute in a much deeper way to the diversity agreed by the entire Committee. However, once we have found that it is appropriate to deal with the message, it is because it contains some important changes to be adopted, so that there is a predictable framework for media businesses. First of all, we support the conversion of the license. We had wanted an investigation of a household fee, but this has not been implemented by the government, and in the absence of this, we believe that the submitted system of the state budget is better than today's licensing system. We are disappointed, however, that we have not gone deeper into the possibility of ensuring greater independence and economic predictability and getting back to Stortinget with this in an appropriate way. We are also disappointed that no more work is done for the employees of Mo in Rana, and we propose that. And then we're jumping over the fact that you need to strengthen the locals by taking away the national newspapers. I'm sorry, President. I mean, I have five minutes. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e846	It's 3 minutes unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e851	Then I get back with a new 3-minute post.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e856	We'll come back again, so the representative Giske will have the opportunity to keep his post on the media message. This case concerns the broadcasting law, as I understand it. I'm pleased that an overall committee is essentially behind the proposition. It is gratifying that there is such a broad consensus in the important law that we have presented here. What is particularly important for me to highlight is that we now in this law provide for stricter requirements for the making available of television programmes to people with disabilities. We set new requirements for broadcasting in terms of visual interpretation, sign language interpretation and audio text. In addition, the NRK will be required to document content published by audiovisual ordering services. I'm glad we also have a flexible system in place. The Broadcasting Act shall hereinafter contain a general provision which determines the broadcaster’s obligation to make the content available to persons with disabilities and lays down the specific quantitative requirements laid down in the Regulation. Such a system makes it possible to change specific requirements through regulatory changes, such as: when new technologies open up to it, and not least making it easier to respond to the needs of disabled people. The majority also agree with the government's view that it is desirable to maintain the Broadcasting Board. The system of advice is not perfect, and we have noticed the concerns raised by the press organisations. It's easy to find weaknesses in the system, but it's actually quite difficult to develop an alternative to that. Because it's important to give most people, who are actually involved in funding the NRK, an opportunity to express their views to the NRK, and that the NRK take these opinions seriously through a public hearing in the Council. In my view, it reinforces the legitimacy of the public broadcaster in the population. The Broadcasting Board advises the broadcaster on the programme activities and the broadcaster is free to follow the advice. Consequently, the Council has no formal authority over the editorial decisions, and the changes proposed by the government in today's legislative proposal, I believe that I will be in favour and remedy the objections raised to the Council as it is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e869	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e885	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that – within the allocated speaking time – up to five rows of replies are given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e894	It has been a teaching and exciting process to have been allowed to be the case rapporteur for the media release. There has been a great commitment from the industry and industry organisations, and I experience that there has been a good tone and an open and fine process between the parties here at the house. The aim of several of us was to get the broadest possible majority behind the communication in order to create a good predictability for the industry. In the course of the notification, it has been demonstrated that the batches in some elements of the notification have been too far apart to achieve this objective. But despite this, many of the comments agreed, and to a large extent we agree on the direction of many media policy instruments. A Joint Committee is committed to stress the importance of editorial editorial editorials. We are clear that media pluralism is important in a democratic perspective and that a good and broad media diversity is crucial in the fight against false news from blogs, comment fields and social media. I feel that we have been gathered into a lot of the problem description related to the failure of advertising revenue as a result of the entry of large international companies online. We recognise that the industry needs to think again to ensure access to the news diversity online for the oldest, and to reach the growing generation and to those who do not have the willingness or ability to pay, with today's subscription schemes. The media communication and the Committee's comments are clear that we need to ensure good and relevant news coverage throughout the country. An overall committee is committed to the journalistic competence to ensure this. One objective is that media policy must ensure that both geographical and thematic blind zones are covered. Let me use a little bit of time as the Right speaking person in the media policy. Then I could say that the whole thing is what we're most satisfied with, but I want to draw out some elements. The Postal Act is not part of the media communication, but we have spent a lot of time helping to ensure that the conversion of the law would have the least possible impact on the newspaper houses. I am therefore pleased that the Stortinget last week adopted a wording that allows the Ministry of Transport and the industry to find the best possible solution within the economic framework. In addition, it is positive that there is fresh funding for digitisation measures outside our budget. VAT exemption for electronic journals is another question that has been devoted to a lot of space over the past few weeks. Here, in the revised national budget, we have a good comment that gives the Ministry of Finance a clear idea of how the regulation should be set up. So to what is part of the media communication: the fundamental importance of the communication is the focus on increasing the distance between policy makers and the way the instruments take concrete action on individual media houses. That is why we support the establishment of the Media Support Council. Equally important is the increased predictability provided for both direct press support and funding of the NRC. This will be good for the industry, and we will have a major media policy debate at the beginning of each major period. Then the majority asks that in the mid-term it be put up for a media policy presentation and debate for the Storting. The majority are clear on the importance of local authorities for media pluralism, and we therefore support the proposal that parts of the direct press support should be turned towards local newspapers. At the same time, we underline the importance of national newspapers to fill the thematic blind zones. The matter of FM concessions for the local radios I come back to in a later article. The conversion of NRK funding is correct. We get a social device that benefits many, not least about a million people who live alone, or are single-parents, and not least all the minimum pensioners. It is therefore a paradox when SV claims that this is an unsocial way of financing the NRK. I see that some people also have problems with the fact that the NRK is to be financed from the State budget. It's getting too tight, they mean. The fact that public ownership of NRKs as our public broadcaster is already the subject of budgetary proceedings every year seems to have been forgotten by the same people. I also notice that the broadcaster does not see any problems with the conversion. The opposition writes that the message contains few new solutions. Then it's in their place to ask if they've read their own comments. There are many new solutions in the message, new solutions that the opposition writes they do not support, and that is, of course, full law, but they cannot at the same time say that the message does not contain new ideas.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e918	I'm sorry, I thought we had put together all three media issues for one debate, but I then refer to my article in the previous case, so that I get eight minutes in total – a whole new technique that I hadn't acquired before now, after 22 years at Stortinget. It's disappointing that you don't have a bigger eye both on the media offer and not least on media consumption, because we have a perception that this is a public information project, this is a democratic project, this is a cultural project, this is an important question for building a nation. It's almost amazing that we have a Left Council that doesn't see these dimensions and goes deep into it, when you get the opportunity to make a big media message. So instead, there are slight changes. I got into the NRK change in my previous post. We support the conversion, but lack measures that can help ensure the independence of the NRC in the future. The licensing regime has been such an instrument. Now it disappears. It is then important that the government looks at other possible measures, and we propose that. The direct media support will be converted. The rapporteur was concerned with this with a media council. So first let's take the sum of money. The 300-400 million. kr we are using direct media support, because small amounts are in the big picture. Just to give an example, the Norwegian Opera in Bjørvika is worth 600 million. kr per year of operating aid. An increase of 5 pst. in the aid – which is quickly granted over a few years, with an increase in wages and prices – amounts to 30 million. kr. There's sums that had meant something in the media area. Instead, it is said that a bureaucratic sample should determine the distribution between national newspapers and local newspapers, and probably then support local newspapers more by weakening national newspapers. It is completely incomprehensible that such really de minimis sums should help to weaken the media diversity that you are talking about. We believe that localisation needs to be strengthened, but that it should be done by strengthening the system. Moving political decisions to a group of so-called specialists doesn't make the media more independent, it only makes them more dependent on people who don't make elections, who are not democratically controlled, and who don't have to stand up to the people for their decisions. So we believe that we should already give a signal that the FM concessions should be extended. The local radios are waiting for an answer to this. We know that there is an investigation going on, but from the Labour Party we will at least signal very clearly already that we want such a continuation. Then we have also suggested that we want an annual report on the conditions of freedom of the press in Norway, that we have a review of the media situation, that we have a review of the use, of the participation, of these blind zones as described in the notice. We think it is important that we have a continuous debate in an area that changes enormously quickly, about how we can make changes. One of these changes is how we can provide equivalent conditions of competition for Norwegian and international media companies. Now we see that international groups like Facebook and Google run off with billions of ad crowns and almost do not put taxes back in Norway. We want the government to intensify both national and international efforts to ensure that something is done about this, and to ensure that Norwegian companies can also compete for the advertising money. We see that the government is making changes to the VAT rules for electronic journals, but also here we believe that it is a very retrospective proposal that does not take on the dynamics that digital media can actually contribute to. Finally, we also want the government to review the list of major events of national importance. We see that major events in particular sports are closed behind payment walls. Part of this is financed by the community's money, through, among other things. Norwegian Typing. We believe that this should be for everyone, not for the few, and want the government to use the possibility available under the EU Directive to include more events on that list. I address the proposals of the Labour Party alone and with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e939	The representative Trond Giske has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e944	Serious editorial media is one of the most important carriers of our democracy. They contribute to a more informed and wider societal debate, and they control the exercise of power. But in recent years, this part of the media has faced a number of challenges that, in total, make it very difficult for them, not least financially: Media consumption by users is constantly changing, and it still requires new business models. Technological developments are fast-paced by the need for investment, together with other costly digitisation. Large global groups such as Google and Facebook take solid jafs from the advertising market. New postal laws make it increasingly difficult to distribute paper versions, while broadband is really not well-developed around to ensure online access to news. On top of this, the challenge is that the trust of the serious editors among the population is threatened by the production and dissemination of false news, by so-called deep fakes, with the intrigued manipulation of images, and the spread of alternative media – websites and online newspapers that do not relate to the press ethics rules, as others do, but publish things that are not verifiable, while at the same time accusing the serious media of lying. Recently, the Media Authority could report that the ability of the Nordics to source and media criticism is unfortunately very deficient, and my interpellation two weeks ago about the challenges of just fake news and alternative media made me no less alarmed, to say it that way. For my solution to publicly strengthen the serious consignors, among others. economic was not exactly embraced by the media minister. I mean, it really is now that the serious editor-in-chief media need more support and help, from all of us who acknowledge how incredibly important it is that we have them as an objective source of truth. They are needed to enable us politicians to do what the Constitution says in Section 100: to facilitate an open and informed debate – and then to secure our democracy. There is now a need for offensive political and economic instruments. That means the media industry, it means the media diversity committee, and we mean that in the Center Party. However, it clearly does not believe that the government and the media minister alike, because they have made a media announcement without providing more media support, for which there is a clear need – only a redistribution of the already existing support that will only affect our media diversity, and without providing more effective measures and without a strategy of action that can meet all the challenges that the media landscape will face in the future. They have also chosen to red tape a little further by setting up a so-called media support council that no one other than the media minister himself has wanted, and at least not the media themselves, who does not buy the argument that there is a need for such advice to strengthen arm's length distance, because we have that in Norway. Unlike the government, we in the Centre Party have chosen to listen as much as possible to the media and the media diversity committee and are promoting a number of proposals today to address many of the challenges facing the media: proposals that address the problems of advertising failure towards Facebook and Google, proposals not to take media support from a group of newspapers and give to the small local authorities, but rather to set up a separate support system for local authorities, proposals to investigate exemptions from employers' fees in various ways for a limited period of time. Then we suggest an investigation of a toolbox. The proposal on the toolbox does not get a majority, but in the form of a comment, the Committee has pointed out that something should be worked on in that way. In its work on the Communication, the Committee has also jointly adjusted several other parts of the Communication for the better, such as joint comments on the assessment of a pool of competence for investigative journalism and the strengthening of the VAT exemption system for electronic journals. I would therefore like to thank the rapporteur and members of the Committee of the Government Parties who have worked with us for these adjustments. At the same time, I would like to thank the case rapporteur and others who have contributed to the important comment made in connection with the new postal law, which can mean that the law does not hit the media as hard as it was due just a week ago. Although we in the Center Party are willing to prioritise the media much more than the government and are disappointed that the message does not give the editor-driven journalistic media the help we think they need now, we are happy that the message has become a little bit better after a round in the committee. I want to draw up a later article and come back to the role of the NRK in the future and our proposal to extend the FM concessions to local radio. With that, I'm going to deal with the suggestions the Center Party has on its own and with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e989	The representative of Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e994	The free, editorially-driven press is a foundation for our democracy. The media sees the power in the cards, facilitates the debates that take us further, and informs us all. In Norway, we're lucky. The free press is strong in our country, and we have a variety of media that almost say no other so small language areas or countries are close by. But we can't take it for granted either, because neither the free, editorial press nor our media diversity have come of itself. Without the media policy enshrined in the Constitution's infrastructure requirements, it could look different. Today, the free press and the media are also under pressure. One of the major challenges facing Norwegian media houses today is the emergence of the global technology giants, multinational companies such as Facebook and Google. More and more content is being managed through these channels rather than through Norwegian editorials. This has two serious consequences in particular. First, Google and Facebook vacuum the Norwegian advertising market. The leading daily newspapers have lost 2.3 billion since 2013. kr in advertising revenue. So much loss of income is quite serious for the ability of editorial staff to cover both breadth and depth. Secondly, the non-editor-driven media have gained great power over the flow of information and public vocabulary. Rather, the hope of the democratizing effect of social media has turned to a fear of monopoly power, of algorithm-driven publicity and of platforms where hotness, threats and harmful content are spreading unorthodox. So Facebook cuts down on the image of napalm girl from the Vietnam War and tailoring information to us, but at the same time they say they can't have resources to prevent harmful content. This – the competition of the powerful technology giants with their non-editor-driven services – is the main challenge for our media diversity, for the free press and for the opinion climate. However, there is not a single measure to address the main challenges of this media communication. Instead, the government raises an artificial conflict between local authorities and the nation-wide, meaningful newspapers by saying that media support should be provided to local authorities, which are both good and good, but at the same time the level of aid is frozen in total. Then the bill goes to newspapers like Our Country, Nations and part of Media Norway that really make up the media diversity in practice. It says something about the government's lack of ambitions for the foundation of democracy and to meet the really big challenges to the media when we stand here and argue about small money while Google and Facebook run off with billions right behind our backs. In 2017, Google had 1 billion. kr in income in Norway, while they taxed only 3 million. kr. There are not exactly good competition conditions for Norwegian media houses. But it doesn't have to be like that. A growing number of countries realise that we have room for action to regulate the technology giants. Germany, France, Italy, the United Kingdom and Spain — to name a few — have all gone towards taxing the giants and demanding responsibility and transparency for the moderation of harmful content. This is why the biggest mistake of government media policy is a failure sin. After waiting for years, we are presented with a message entitled Media Policy for a New Time, Media Policy for the Future. But it's on the verge of false marketing. For the message fails to do anything about the real challenges of the new era. Instead, it establishes the discharge board and freezes the aid. In our comments and proposals, we have outlined an alternative that takes seriously the major challenges the media face. We are proposing a democratic promise for increased press support because we cannot afford not to. We propose to make demands on Facebook and other non-editor-driven media. And we're proposing to tax the value of the technology giants. It is a media policy for the future. I'm addressing SV's suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1022	The representative Freddy André Supreme Court has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1027	The media support message is a long-term response to some of the biggest questions the media industry has had to deal with in recent years. Today we can say: Yes, localities are crucial to local democracy, and therefore they must be given priority. Yes, the NRC still has an important and cohesive role in the public debate, and that is why we need to finance it in a more modern and socially equitable way. Yes, freedom of the press and editor are still absolute principles and should not depend on who governs the country. Therefore, we ensure arm's length distance between politicians and the press by setting up a separate Media Support Council. Based on four-year steering signals from Stortinget, this is what will decide how to distribute media support. Yes, we need free and critical media that look at the power of the cards at all levels in Norway. It's a democratic problem that serious news reporters are struggling to get it going at a time when more and more unprofessionals are coming on the track. The newspapers we have today may not be in their present form, and it may not play such a big role either, but the content and quality journalism have to be suspended. The public conversation is not as focused and general as it once was. In the age of the Internet, we all have our own echo chamber – whether we are aware of it or not. We don't gather around the same programs at the same time every night. When we get to work, not everyone has seen or heard it the same day before. In many ways the world has become richer. We have immediate access to an incomprehensible amount of information, and it has never been easier to acquire knowledge. At the same time, it has become more difficult to orient and sort which sources are to be trusted and which are not to be trusted. Public media support is about keeping the public conversation alive. When the Minister of Culture says that it is the small localities that should be given priority, it is a life insurance for the most vulnerable, but perhaps also our most important media houses. When a local person dies, few others can take over the social mission of that newspaper. National newspapers rarely have the capacity to go beyond any local government. People won't be able to read about the challenges that exist in their towns or cities, or what development takes. One loses a common reference point and an objective and critical look at the community in which one lives. I am pleased that it is stated that the media support will be kept at the high level of the day, and that it will also be provided with extra money during the conversion period. It would be much more expensive for democracy to lose media pluralism than to keep a rough funding system that we stand safe behind. I would also like to comment briefly that we agree that the principle of arm's length distance lies at the heart of Norway. But when we look back in time at the different budgetary rounds, it might be tempting to ask whether politicians sometimes have a little short arms, because when media support is turned on and turned on to meet single actors, it also makes it apparent that there is access and the opportunity to break just this principle. And right here, the media support board should have an important function just like the extra safety valve that prevents us from breaking with the arm's length distance principle. Medie-Norway is in transition. Changing media support isn't just part of this, although it's important. Developments are fast, and although today's decision will correct a lot in an out-of-date legislation, it will be important to keep up with it. We must not be afraid to take new action to preserve the space of the free statements, the critical press and the media diversity. That's how we arm ourselves against populism, propaganda and fake news. And that's how we build an enlightened and liberal democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1055	Under the Constitution § 100, the State is required to ensure a robust and diverse infrastructure in the area of freedom of expression. This shall be done, inter alia: by providing good framework conditions for the media and thereby facilitating citizens' access to the news and to participate in the societal debate. I am therefore pleased that this media communication proposes a forward-looking media support system that facilitates media policy in a new era where diversity, arm's length and independence are fundamental principles. And just diversity is on the agenda of the Christian People's Party today. For the same reason that it is important to stimulate content of opinion, we in the Christian People's Party believe that it is also important to stimulate diversity of opinion. In order to ensure sufficient media pluralism, and to be able to build up under local democracy, it is important for us that the media message includes not only the so-called geographical white spots, but also the thematic white spots and other media shadows in the media landscape. It gives us diversity. Although the Workers' Party needs to note that they have assessed that this message should have been sent back pending a proper media message, the Christian People's Party believes, however, that this media message is good. The notification responds to the main principle when it establishes that editor-driven journalistic mass media is one of the cornerstones of a free and democratic society. Of course, we also support the rapporteur's thorough contributions, which bring forward a great many important elements of the message, without repeating all these. Having said that, I also have expectations for the notification and clarification that the aim of media support is to facilitate social and research journalism in order to reduce the thematic white spots. Here, national newspapers are doing a very good job today in taking responsibility for reducing the thematic blind zones. The fact that this will be a work it will be important to follow on with is certain. If we want content and diversity of opinion, we do not go in the Christian People's Party just for the Committee's position, we will also join in and follow this in port. We want to live in a free and democratic society, where we respect and open up different opinions. Many of the newspapers that today cover the thematic white spots are newspapers that are engaged and that offer perspectives that we need in a free democracy. They show us the breadth, and they show us the diversity of the Norwegian people. Together with the other big newspapers, they contribute to an overall perspective and to an open and frank public conversation. Without a diversity of vocals, ideas and views, there is no real opportunity for a variety of applications, either for free democracy or for a viable and sustainable media policy. With this emphasis on the importance of diversity and broad thematic issues, we are voting in favour of the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1074	Let me first thank the case rapporteur, Take Pettersen, for very good work on the media message. Once upon a time not so many years ago was one of today's highlights to get the fresh local view on the kitchen table along with the morning coffee. Fortunately, you still get that in most places, but it's not as exciting as before. Many of us have already before we are out of bed, scrolled the web newspapers on the mobile phone – and are therefore relatively up-to-date on the newsprint before we tumble into the morning shower to wake up properly. As we all know, there are major changes in media everyday life in almost all areas. That is why it is good that the government has prioritised work on a separate media message, which we are dealing with here today – and which shows the direction for the road further for the media here to land. One of the cornerstones of our free and democratic society is the open debate. It takes place largely in editorial, journalistic mass media. In our time, it is also more and more common in social media. Both the traditional media and the new social media play an important role in democracy. We like it or not, but the Internet has come to be, social media as well – in itself amazing inventions, but also tools that can hurt. Today, everyone can be his own editor, but without the same publicity responsibility that lies with editors in free, independent and serious media. The thing we're dealing with today is about the traditional mass media. These have undergone, and continue to undergo, major changes. Let me first say a few words about the funding of the NRK. The primary policy of the Progress Party is that the entire system of state-funded television and radio has been dismantled, but we realize that the NRK is not privatised with the very first. The party of progress has also fought against the unsocial licence collection for many years. That's why I'm glad today's model disappears. I'm actually also glad that the model that comes instead of licensing is the best of all bad alternatives, for now people are being screened with weak economy, all minimum pensioners, all who live alone, and many others: they have to pay far less than today. It's positive. I am also very pleased with the change in which newspapers are to receive public support. That taxpayers should keep their lives alive in almost partial pipes like the Newspaper and the Nations makes no sense. It makes more sense to support the locals, who come out where people live and work, and who write about the small, daily news from what's happening in the neighborhood, in the city and in the neighborhood. The many local and regional modes are often life-stricken and glued to local communities. It's through them that you keep up-to-date about what's going on in the village, you know who's doing what -- news that actually counts where you live. What's happening in Oslo and in the big world, you're slowly getting along elsewhere. The communication has also looked at developments that are important for the media. It shall not be stuck under the chair that digitisation has been quite tough so far. Fortunately, most media houses seem to have come through that process more or less. One feature we see is the increased competition. There is competition from both new and, often, foreign actors. They've taken remarkably large jafs of income. Fortunately, the Committee is united in a desire for the government to work actively to ensure that the international actors operating on the Internet change their legislative and regulatory framework. I would like to point out one point worth following, namely how the new media image can reinforce a polarisation of public debate – as we have seen trends – and that part of the new media image helps to make the traditional media ‘scarce’, as they do not necessarily contribute to a high level of quality in journalism.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1099	Finally, a few words about the local radio concession on the FM network: the Progress Party fought a lonely fight against the introduction of DAB and the closure of FM. We stood alone in this hall for several rounds. Now the Center Party is trying to steal the ownership of the fight for the FM. It serves them little honor. The fight against DAB has been lost, but not the struggle for local radios to continue their FM broadcasts beyond today’s concession period, until 2021. The reason why we voted down the Senterpartiet and SV's proposal in this case today is that the government has announced that it will come to Stortinget with a separate case on this during 2019. Then there will also be clarifications as to whether the easiest thing to do is to extend existing concessions until the end of 2026, rather than a full new concession round applicable until 2031. For the Progress Party, it would be desirable to extend existing FM concessions both inside and outside the extinguishing areas for many more years.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1102	The media message we are discussing today is a big message for independence, diversity and arm's length distance. When people click in to read something in local language or another editor-driven medium, they sign up for democracy. They might read about decisions in the local government that affect their daily lives, or the toll debate that rages. Everyone with power must have someone who accompanies them and ask them questions on behalf of people. We need media that exposes corruption and abuse of power. Editor-led mass media are among the foundations of a democratic society. On the government side, we are committed to facilitating the widest possible majority for a forward-looking media policy. Therefore, it is historic that a Joint Committee joins a new funding model for the NRC. The government wants the NRC to continue to deliver a wide variety of high-quality content to the whole country and to all parts of the population. But sail in 87 pst. by us using NRK's content daily, it's getting fewer and fewer watching TV. Then it goes without saying that the funding of the NRK, with a fee on a TV set, cannot continue as before. The collection of the tax bill, as proposed by the government, has several advantages. The system is stable, forward-looking and technology-independent. It also has a social profile, because those with lower taxable income will pay less than those with high income. Besides, the NRK, as part of the core wall of democracy, is something we all enjoy. So it's true that the whole community is involved in paying for NRK. At the same time, we ensure more predictability, both for the NRC and for the media belonging to other grant schemes, and establish a permanent financial framework for four years at a time. The establishment of a new and independent Council, the Media Support Council, reinforces the principle of arm's length distance between policy and media. The Council will be entrusted with allocating funds between different grant schemes on the basis of the overall leadership of the Storting. The idea is that the Council should also have a central role in determining the arrangements for individual media support schemes. The Council will not be in a vacuum. I would like to come back to the Stortinget with a legislative proposal which clarifies the authority of the Council and which leadership the Stortinget should provide for the activities of the Council. Confidentiality and trust must be provided by the media through the journalism they conduct every day. The government is helping to strengthen media independence, and with these grips we get a more forward-looking media policy. We're also going to discuss a Document 8 proposal to extend today's FM concessions for local radio out in 2031. I am very pleased that the majority in the committee agrees that the Storting should not decide on it until there is a sufficient basis for decision. The media surveillance authority has just provided a report on the conditions and duration of any extension of local radio on the FM network. Local radios play an important role in the Norwegian media diversity, and the report shows that it is necessary for local radios to continue with the FM for a few more years. I want to return to Stortinget with detailed conditions for the local radios on the FM network as soon as possible. A topical occasion for this will be the Ministry of Culture's budget for 2020. Then I also think it is important, when you hear the debate, to refer a little bit to the process on this matter. We have had a number of media messages, which have been sent back mostly with a request for new orders. When I joined the State Council with this area of responsibility, I wanted a broad settlement behind media policy. I also gave all the parties at Stortinget the opportunity to participate in creating that reconciliation from day one. The majority of the opposition said no to that, but I understand that they're now regretting it, and would like to be involved in evaluating different things, when we've presented our model. Then I have to point out that it is not a media minister's job to create business models for Norwegian newspapers. It is also important to point out that I do not believe that media support has increased so much in the last 50 years since it was created, as it has done in recent years, including. increased VAT exemption, technology deployment support schemes and we also have a general broadcasting agreement with TV 2. The proportion of media support in the Norwegian budgets has probably not been raised as much as it has in recent years.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1123	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1128	It's an interesting description of the history of the Minister of Culture, who says that the opposition refused to enter into broad conciliation. No, we didn't, but we refused to have a team work to make the big message, as the minister invited. It must be the responsibility of a Council of State to provide a major message, use its excellent offices and other resources to provide good analysis, but above all strategies to meet the major trends. My first question to the Council of State is: With the huge changes that are taking place in the media, with international competition from Facebook and Google, with digital platforms that provide completely different business models, why hasn't the Council of State described overall strategies for public information, culture, democracy and gravitating journalism in a new digital age? This is missing in the message. Instead, there has been a media support message with some minor changes in the media support area.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1135	I need to correct. It was not the whole opposition who said no to be on a broad agreement, but the Workers' Party that torpedoed that proposal from day one. Then we'll take that responsibility. So let's put our suggestions forward. The strange thing is then to be met with remarks that this is not a media message, without getting a single counterproposal on how things could have been done better. I understand that the representative from the Workers' Party would very much like to be involved in describing reality, but this government wants to take action to strengthen the media diversity. That's what we're doing. That's how we also strengthen the principle, linked to the fact that with a media support council, we actually move some of this at arm's length away from politics. We're making the biggest change in NRK in recent history with a completely new license collection. In the notes we see that the Workers' Party is dreaming of a household tax from the 1950s which is socially unfair and which does not meet the technological challenges facing the NRK. We have taken responsibility, we have delivered the proposals, and we have not seen a single alternative in the comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1140	When you see the message, you can see very well that the Council of State would very much like to have help from the Workers' Party to write a message. The nice thing about being a government council is that at any time you can stop being a government councillor and leave it to others if you think it's terribly difficult to write a message on your own. There's no answer here as to why you don't go into these big megatrends. I think that in just a few years this message will be seen as a parentheses in the big debate. Speaking of arm’s length distance: the only major measure in the notification, namely the conversion of the licence to State aid via the State budget, is not really to increase the arm’s length, on the contrary. The opposition raises the big question of how to ensure the independence of the NRK, without any response from either the Council of State or government parties. One of the things that the Council of State writes in the Communication is that the NRK should also cover ‘geographical blind zones’, while the NRK should not enter into a competitive situation with the local authorities. Then I would like to ask the Council of State: how in the world is it supposed to happen? Geographical blind zones must be where there is no media coverage or where there is perhaps one locality. This is not a matter of concern.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1150	This government doesn't think it's difficult to make a media message. That's why we've presented a very good one. But we note that in the comments from the Workers' Party, it is a desire for common subscription schemes and to discuss new possible business models. We don't think it's a government's job to develop business models in the media. Our basis is to provide good opportunities for these media to go positive and make sure that they take their democratic role. If it's so hard to understand that there's a relationship between the white spots, where there are no newspapers, and that you're not going to compete with others, then if there's a white spot, it's not local. Then the NRK has a bigger job. If there's a lot of locals, it's not a white spot. Then the NRK doesn't have to compete with the locals that are there. It's a clear relationship. We'll make sure everyone has good local media on the spot. It either provides the market or the NRK.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1155	In the case of white spots: this media message creates new white spots by redistributing funds from the niche newspapers that deal with other themes to the small localities. Unfortunately, we do not get a majority today instead of creating our own pot for the locals within the media support system, and there are also a number of other proposals for which we do not get a majority. That's it, unfortunately. However, what is now in the position of the media communication is several majority and committee comments that adjust the notification, including: the person who says something about assessing a pool of skills for digging journalism, and the person who indicates that one should look at the proposal for a toolbox, which is wanted from the media. In addition, a note has been made in the Postal Act to make it a little better for the paper distribution in the future. What I'm concerned about is how we're going to take this further and reinforce and improve the starting point that I think the media message is – and needs. Will the Council confirm that she is following up these comments?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1164	Yeah, this is great to introduce a media support board. It will also be easier to have such schemes, such as a pool of skills or a grave fund. For this reason, it is not decided in the Office of the Council of State which journalists are to be re-trained or which journalists are to be allowed to dig on a theme. Then you actually want to shift that power out, and then you'll also be able to give more power to be involved and develop media policy in that area. But what I have to admit is a little frustrating about this debate, is that you talk about a toolbox without being able to say what tools you're going to have. You talk about other arrangements, but you can't come up with ideas. So the Centre Party mentioned a time-limited exemption from the employer’s fee. On this we say in the message that we will continue to consider whether it can be a targeted tool. But if we had introduced it today, it would have been a huge centralization. I am a little surprised that the Central Party is both fighting for a huge centralisation of the instruments through the employer's fee, and that the large Oslo newspapers should have such a large share of the aid compared to the local ones. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1173	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1178	I totally disagree that fighting for a short-term exemption from the employer’s fee, which is what the media diversity committee thought would be the most effective measure, is about centralisation. This is a lot more, and what we have in our remarks – and to the extent that the Committee actually has in its comments – is that we should look at whether to investigate different kinds of issues, for example: the non-payment of an employer’s fee. It's about the time period -- it might not have to be four years, maybe it can hold on to two. There may be different positions that will specifically focus on strengthening all journalistic media, if so, for example. is the journalist who is being strengthened. But in addition, I wonder how in all the world you can claim that the system we have now is so unsuitable and has so little arm length distance. The media themselves are satisfied with how they are organized now. [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1186	State Council Skei Grande.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1192	First of all, I have to say that it is quite a long time since that sample submitted its message, in which they thought that the employer's fee should be changed for a short time, and the situation in the media was very different then. Now we see pretty good results in all the big media houses, with excess in the hundred remillion class. But those we see tired are the small locals, who are in areas where there is no employer's fee. So for our real district newspapers, it's not a cost. If we go in and cut, it's the Oslo papers that get the most. The big steps we've taken are that we've made sure that we've made a transition pot for digitalization, we've made sure that the support systems have become technology neutral, and we've removed VAT from digital media. So many of these changes are actually implemented, and they work on the results in the newspapers, sail if they've been through tough conversions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1198	I think we have to make sure that we have the tools that reach, and then we have to be open to looking at new ones. And if others have new ideas, we're also open to looking at it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1201	Our climate of opinion is under pressure from large non-editor-driven social media that allows both hotness, threats and harmful content to be spread without moderation. Several countries have realised that these technology giants have gained too much power over public vocabulary, and they have gone towards demands for both increased transparency and responsibility to prevent harmful content. I want to say that new, young voices, often women with immigrant or minority backgrounds, are being hottered by the public debate, is one of the greatest challenges of our democracy. Nevertheless, there is no action in this Communication to improve our climate of opinion and to prevent this development. Why does the Council of State make this failure when other countries have shown that it is possible to blame the technology giants?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1206	This is a communication on media support. It's not a freedom of speech commission, it's not an action in relation to everything we do internationally to just meet these giants. We have a good dialogue with the whole EU system. If we are to solve this, we must do this together in Europe. Margrethe Vestager comes from my sister party in Denmark – she is also one of the candidates to get higher in the EU system now after the European elections – and has been one of the champions for this. We have good contact with her, and we have good contact with the EU system to develop. We will continue to be forward-looking and to work actively with the EU system to ensure that we are promised the law on this side. Both the representative and I have voted no in previous referendums – or perhaps not the representative was able to vote, but have been negative to the EU structures. But this is one of the areas where EU structures can be involved and help us create an international regulatory framework that will allow us to gain control of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1211	Then the line chord change is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1218	The council finally said it here in the reply code exchange very clearly itself: this is a media support message. It's just so stupid, because the whole Stortinget has been waiting for a media message for years now. It has been several years since the Media Diversity Committee presented its actions, which the media industry urgently needed. Then time has passed, and here we have ended up, with a message that really only refurbishes a little on today's support system, and that at today's level – a support system and a level of the day that, by the way, is being fought in full by government policies in other areas, for example. in the postal sector, but also in the absence of broadband coverage around the districts. It's very disappointing, because journalism and the independent news media are in a historically crucial time – yes, in some sort of tornado of change, as soon as it goes. Changes related to the global competitive situation, which have been well explained by several others today, technological developments and also our media behaviour, mean that the business models of society-friendly journalism have just kneeled, and most struggle to survive. That's the carrybar of our democracy we're talking about here. Therefore, media policy is not just media policy. Media policy is media and democracy policy, and a great deal is at stake. It was just this, the big global trends, what they do with our access to information, and measures to remedy this, which the message was to be about. It is naive and retiring to say that politicians cannot do anything about global trends. You can definitely do that, and that's what we wanted a debate on. But instead, we're here with a media support message. It endorses the much-needed change in the funding of the NRC. It's time for this to come on the table. In principle, a majority of the Committee, when the public broadcasting communication was discussed in 2015, had said that they would have issued a household licence. That investigation has not been carried out, and we therefore agree with the proposal that is on the table. It is important for the Workers' Party that we maintain and ensure a legitimate and independent NRK with a predictable level of grants. We are extremely concerned that we need more measures and solutions to ensure the independence of the NRK. That is why we are also promoting proposals in the Chamber today that the government should come back with such proposals, so that we can have a discussion on them in the Stortinget. We are totally dependent on a strong, good and legitimate NRK. [[The President clubs.]] It's good for the media diversity. [[The President clubs.]] Then there's the situation in Mo in Rana. It is a marshall from a joint committee that the government must compensate better.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1231	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1236	No matter what you choose to call the message, you must have read it terribly poorly if you think that there is nothing there that contributes to a large, broad and good media diversity, and today's debate has well highlighted it. But I need to say a little about that part of the message – and not least the proposal for a representative – that is about extending the FM concessions for local radios outside the big cities. Here, there's little difference between the parties, I guess it's strictly the length of the concessions that are the material inequality. Let me immediately say that where the Center Party and SV state that 2031 is the right year for an extension, the majority supports the professional advice given. We see that the department writes that it may be desirable to allow local radios outside the big cities to continue on the FM for a few years beyond 2021, but that more facts about economic and regulatory framework conditions need to be obtained. Furthermore, they want an updated status of local radio digitisation before the Stortinget takes a decision on the issue. Let's put that behind us. At the beginning of May, the media surveillance authority made its recommendations that existing FM local radio concessions be extended for five years, both inside and outside the extinguishing zones, until 31 December 2026. Furthermore, they asked for an assessment of a temporary extension of the grant scheme to local audio and video media, so that the scheme also includes operational support for digitisation. At the hearing of the Committee in May, the Norwegian Local Radio Association said that they wanted to extend existing concessions rather than a new call. They further stated that they are willing to accept a shorter extension than until 2031 if this can help to release a full new concession round. When the Media Authority presented its recommendations, both Norwegian Local Radio Associations and representatives from the nationwide commercial radio channels were present in Bergen, and all expressed joy at the recommendations that were presented. In view of this, the majority, in the form of a comment, recommends that the Ministry take into account the recommendations of the Media Regulatory Authority when returning to the Stortinget with a case concerning the extension of the FM concessions. Right will underline that local radios are an important part of the media diversity in Norway. With its diversity of content and actors and extensive ownership, local radios provide the media offer in Norway with breadth, variety and options. Therefore, it is gratifying that an overall increase supports good framework conditions for local radios.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1253	Before I talk a little bit more about my heart children, the local media, and not least the local radio, I have to point out that we in the Center Party are therefore critical of the fact that the NRK will be financed from the tax bill in the future. The licensing system was ready to be scrapped, of course we also believe, but we're concerned that the NRK is now going to be financed from the state budget, which is fundamentally problematic because the NRK is then subject to a budgetary procedure that could weaken their independence. The case rapporteur says that the NRK is not critical of this. Well, they're not very happy about it either. The Media Multiplicity Committee recommended a household fee as a funding basis for the NRK. This should definitely have been better and more properly done by the government, especially to see how such a solution could achieve an even better social profile than the tax solution does. The government's proposal to give the NRK a four-year steering signal to increase predictability is otherwise fine, but in the opposition, we would like to know in the form of proposals how the NRK can further strengthen its independence and predictability, and also that we should take better care of those who lose the job at the licensing office in Mo i Rana. Then we'll talk a little bit about the important local media that do a good job around to cover up some of the white spots that the media message mentions, but that should have the opportunity to do an even better job. We in the Center Party want as mentioned several fresh funds to establish a separate system of media support for the small localities. At the same time, we will strengthen their ability to increase their skills and pursue more researching journalism. It's not just the newspapers that can cover policies and communities in our different local environments. It can also include local radios and local television. I am therefore pleased that the entire committee agreed on a joint remark that we should look at how local radio and local television can strengthen their offer and their journalism in the future. This promotes the opposition as a request proposal. When it comes to the Central Party's proposal to extend the local radio FM concession until 2031, we maintain our proposal in the Central Party together with SV, even though other parties want to wait until a new case comes, among other things. after the Media Authority has now submitted its report on the matter. That the representative of the Progress Party Wold is trying to downgrade this important matter to a matter of who has the most ownership of it, will be on his account. Being concerned about games is the Progress Party is by day, so I care about the cats who own the matter. I care most about securing local radios. Although it is good for both the local radios and me to experience that the Media Authority gives us absolutely right in that it is far too early to turn off the FM for local radio in 2021, and also feel that a joint committee agrees with that, I believe this room should listen to the local radios in this matter. They believe that they must have until 2031 whether to be able to obtain predictability and revenue from the FM broadcasts so that they can survive or afford to move to DAB. I look forward to a new case on the subject in any case, but I will already notify you that I am not sure if the Central Party will support all the recommendations of the Media Authority.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1272	The President would remind the representative that «to care about cats» is not enough a parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1277	Now the state council said right out that this is not a media message. It's a media support message. This explains why the different interventions and the large trends have not been addressed. However, even a media support message must be based on the landscape in which media support is to operate. One of these trends is the platform economy, which means that it is not only good to be the largest, but it is absolutely essential to be the largest. There's basically only one search engine that people use: Google. It's called google. There's really only one big social media platform people use: Facebook for posts, Instagram for photos. Number two will be uncompetitive. There's only one Finn, because it's impossible to create alternative platforms because the advantage of being the greatest is so huge. This is now turning too much into the media industry. Governments and governments have no answers to it, no analyses of it and no discussions of it. What happens when the ad heads disappear? What happens when the number of journalists has decreased by a quarter in a short time? What happens when the resources of digging fall? What happens when fake news can be produced and disseminated more easily? What happens when the press is challenged by the clock, by click analyses, by market departments and by non-editorial social media? None of this is being discussed. When the Council of State then admits that this is a media support message and not a media diversity message, the question becomes quite obvious: can the Council of State imagine making a media diversity message and presenting it to the Stortinget, so that we can get a full and broad debate on how the support systems actually work in a landscape that changes dramatically; how the people's information project that the Left once stood for can be continued in a digital time – where the benefits of digital technology can also be used to disseminate good and quality information, debate, analyses and reviews; how to develop the press ethics, education; how people's media habits and usage can be organised – so that we can continue this? Once upon a time, the Left was a parliamentary party. Then they were concerned that there would be political control over the king, over the government and over the officials. So now you have to move important political decisions – because I guess the Council of State thinks it's a political decision how much money we have to spend on local newspapers versus the number two newspapers versus national newspapers – to a group of appointed officials. There are so many unanswered questions, and there are so many unfinished analyses and strategies that we need to get a media message, and we are therefore proposing it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1293	Some of us have enjoyed following the wave of digitisation in Norwegian media from the very beginning. Some of us were less developmental optimists than others on behalf of democracy. Some of us notice that some of us had reason to. The responsibility for at least some of the ethical challenges facing this issue lies with the economy. I record that the press ethics is mentioned only once in the Committee's voting. I think it may be that this is primarily a media support message. But in reality, pressetics and media ethics permeate this whole message. It's about editorial media, which is the very rootstock of our press ethics. It is a financing mechanism. The Media Support Council builds up under predictability, which is once again a prerequisite for good media ethics in the future. Local media have got a better everyday life, and I think it's absolutely necessary because – I dare to venture that claim – it's primarily in the local media the ethical challenges really come true. 20 years ago, we experienced an enormous optimism about the fields of comment and debate in the newspapers. That's what I call overoptimism and maybe a little naive attitude to it. To mention another point, commentator Anki Gerhardsen today mentions a combination of the PR industry and journalism as a challenge for media ethics in Norway. I would think that both of these fields, both comment fields and debate fields, and the blending of the communication industry and politics, are about professionalism and ethical standards in the press. It's about defending the media consumer, and in this way there's reason to say that the self-justice machine in the press, which in and of itself this room has nothing to do with, we have to stall about. It's again about diversity. It's about fenced up organisations in the press, Norwegian Journalists team and Norwegian Editors' Association. This Communication builds up under the equity of the media in Norway. In reality, it is about trust and integrity – the only rootstock on which the media are based. So I notice that Norway has responsibilities that extend far beyond the national media policy. [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1306	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1311	I am actually a little sorry that I forgot to congratulate the representative Giske in the reply, so I can take this opportunity now, and also say that this is probably why we have not clearly read the message, which just takes up the role of the media in democracy, the white spots, both geographically and thematically, as one of the main priorities in the development of the media message, which says something about the importance of localism, and that in the further development, localism is given priority to the national number two newspapers – which today takes a very large share of the support schemes – because we think they are the most important ones. We want to give priority to the locals in the future. That's how we go thematically through all of these parts. In addition, there is also a new piece of legislation in the pipeline to increase trust in Norwegian media by legislating the principles that have been built over a long period of time and strengthening the law section of it. We'll get back to that; we'll also notify you here in the message. Then it is that the trust in Norwegian media and freedom of expression on platforms other than those that are editors-directed, we have to engage in other discussions. I notice that there is a debate about a freedom of speech commission, which I see as a wise idea to continue working on, but we see that, in terms of the challenges we face internationally, we also need to find solutions internationally. Norway is not likely to operate with support for Facebook or Google, but that we are going to participate in an international code to ensure that they also contribute to the community, I think it is important. But to call them media, which is to be mentioned in a media support message, I think is wrong. We've brought the democratic perspective into this message, and it's easy to read if you take the trouble of seeing the whole message together. So I think all the answers and the terms are in the document; it's just reading it. We must also ensure that all young people in the gallery will receive good media in the future with the support we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1322	The representative Trond Giske has spoken the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1327	I thank you for the congratulations and can assure you that the wedding has not put any damper on the reading of the media message. Now the Council of State says that here's all the answers. It worries me deeply, because this is very inadequate answer. I am glad that the Council of State says that she will follow up on it with the billing and taxing of Facebook and Google, but there is no doubt that this is media policy. Many people get their media habits, media information and pass through, for example. Facebook. Is she going to make a media message? We don't know. Is she going to provide greater independence for the NRK? We don't know. Is she going to be away from the editorial choices of the NRK, or does she think that they should not compete with the locals – or not quote, as is stated in the majority remarks? We don't know. Is she going to contribute to reinforced measures around the press? We don't know. Will she ensure that political decisions continue to be adopted by politicians? We don't know. Is she going to take seriously the major data protection issues involved in storing information? We don't know. This leaves an enormous number of unanswered questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1336	With the risk of repeating myself: All of these answers are contained in this message. We want a strong and independent NRK. We have created a clear framework for this in the message. We are open to developing that framework stronger when we now look at other types of legislation around it. I see no other suggestions in the remarks on how to strengthen the arm's length distance that we also need to the NRK, but it's important for the Left, and it's always been. But it's not like keeping the old arrangements and the old licensing system, as the old majority did, is helping to strengthen the NRK. I think that an NRK that hangs out in time is right. It's very strange to me that you can't understand that a NRK that has to deal with white spots – i.e. places where there are no newspapers – will be seen as competing with other newspapers. We want a NRK that should not be active where there are many locals, and that should be active where there are no locals – it's called white spots. How is this hard to understand? I feel that argument is not on my side. There are many good answers in this message, but we have also announced that we are coming with a media responsibility law, and we will bring a number of other steps forward in the media policy. It is not that when we have delivered a message, we are done with that area. When it comes to how the Media Support Council works, we come back to Stortinget with a law, and we get a lot of ways to discuss it further. But I don't think you have a debate technique where you don't have any ideas, but attack that ideas don't exist, when they're actually presented in a big message.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1345	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1361	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that – within the allocated speaking time – up to five rows of replies are given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1370	On 22 June last year, we adopted a new municipal law. The case we are dealing with today is of a more technical nature, with the correction of small incubators and to ensure good coherence with other legislation. There is a joint committee behind the setting. I would like to thank the Committee for its changes, which are required. So we see a sentence for a long legal work both in the department and here in the Stortinget. The new municipality will enter into force at the time of the formation of the new municipal government. It says that for me on behalf of the committee to wish the Municipality of Norway good luck with a new municipal law.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1375	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1391	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that – within the allocated speaking time – up to five rows of replies are given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1400	The Committee has examined the SV’s proposal for a representative to give the State an obligation to cover financial losses incurred by the claim in defence. An overall committee agrees with the proposers that such cases may lead to unreasonable results, where the keeper suffers loss because of the criminal act of the obituary or where the obituary has acted abusively. If one is under the guerrilla, a few assists in controlling the economy, not destroying it, as it says in the proposal. Everyone agrees. New Act on Vergemål was adopted in 2010 and entered into force on 1 July 2013. One of the main changes introduced was the fixed-denomination scheme. The aim was to obtain the necessary professionalisation of the protection system and to ensure that the competent authorities were able to do so. The country's county councillors also have an overall oversight of major economic developments, and the room for action of the guards is limited. However, there may be a greater potential for damage both to third parties, to the proprietor and to the debtor himself. For example, in addition to criminal acts, it may be the case that a guardian forgets to take the necessary insurance, transfers money to the wrong recipient, misses deadlines, or forgets to apply for a grant. The loss for both the breeder and the proprietor may be potentially significant. The State is liable under general rules on compensation in cases where there is a public liability basis and the supervision of the claim has failed. The proposal to impose an obligation on the State to cover financial losses suffered by persons under protection, even in cases where the State has handled the matter properly, requires further investigation as it raises some issues of both scope and impact. The Ministry of Justice and Defence is already considering different solutions to ensure that keepers do not suffer financial losses as a result of the actions of grievances. The members of the government parties point to the fact that the ministry is already exploring possible solutions and support the Council of State's assessment that it is important to identify the most appropriate measures to address the problem in question, while avoiding undesirable effects. We also agree that it would not now be appropriate to conclude that a new State compensation scheme should be set up in line with the SV's draft representative, and will vote against this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1411	It is not difficult to understand that it can be perceived unfairly when a person does not get the values that the protection has lowered. The proposal we are discussing today has come on the basis of specific issues in which the company has lowered large amounts, but for various reasons it is not possible for the proprietor to have the claim for repayment of these funds met. However, the case is a matter of principle and is about who should be left with the loss in these cases. Today, the state is responsible for losses only if the state has made mistakes. That should still be the main rule. But in some special cases it is necessary to supplement this rule that the state should cover a loss if it is not possible for the owner to recover this loss from the shelter. If a defender is subjected to criminal or indiscriminate action that causes an economic loss, we must prevent the perpetrator from being left with the loss. It is important that the landlord is kept harmless, and a system for these situations we do not have in place today. I would like to stress that the Central Party believes that the principle that the claimant should be held responsible for financial loss resulting from criminal or other harmful acts must be established. This should initially not be in the state. Here it is only a question of moving responsibility to the state if the claim against the defence cannot be met, for example. if the organism dies and the requirement of the owner is given so low priority in the bow that no payment is made. The centre party therefore supports the proposal to rapidly establish a mechanism to ensure that in these cases the proprietor is held harmless, in order to prevent such injustices from occurring in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1432	It is obvious to understand that it is very unfair not to get back money that has been stolen from you. Even more understandable is when the money that has been stolen is from the person who is set to manage your interests. It is this injustice that arises when the keeper has not recovered the values that he has lowered. It is good that the ministry now goes through several aspects of the protection system. It is good that the Ministry informs us that in this context it may be appropriate to consider whether a system should be set up to cover this kind of loss – it should be lacking! The example that has been drawn out in this case concerns a warden who stole NOK 200000 from a toaster and NOK 40 000 from three others. Shortly after the deposit was discovered, the defect died. The claim that was addressed to the estate was given low priority, and the bride and groom suffered a loss of NOK 130 000. The reason is that the state is only responsible for this loss if the state has made a mistake, which is not reason to believe that the state did in this case. This leads to a totally unfair result that the proprietor may lose large amounts. This case underlines the need for arrangements to ensure that the person under protection is kept harmless in such situations as I just mentioned. Entrepreneurship shall ensure assistance in the management of the economy. If one is subjected to criminal acts of the grievances appointed by the State, the sense of law of the people implies that the State must also cover this loss. The State has to take the settlement and clean up, so that the proprietor is actually kept harmless. This does not mean that the person responsible for the crime should be relieved of the responsibility, only that the State, which has initially appointed the claim, also follows up the case and provides for the loss if the claim is not met, as in this situation, so that the guardian does not suffer loss. There is clearly a need to ensure that matters that are known to date are also resolved in a way that prevents the proprietor from being harmed. To this end, the majority of the Committee, the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party promote the following proposal for a decision: ‘The government is requesting the rapid establishment of a mechanism for actions caused by acts at least three years back in time, whereby the State ensures that creditors who have suffered financial losses due to criminal or negligent actions from the forgetfulness are kept harmless’. I recommend with the attitude of this committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1450	I thought this would be a fairly simple matter to deal with, because I have registered that everyone in this room who has at least taken the floor now – everyone has well developed a moral compass and well developed a sense of justice – fully agrees with the completely unreasonable thing here, that those who have been stolen money by a guardian, in some way, are to be held responsible for it. They should not be those who have to cover it in different ways. It is extremely unreasonable what has happened in the cases that have been referred to here, and we believe that the Storting must of course find a solution. That is what is contained in the proposal we have put forward. Just to clarify the proposal, so that it is not misunderstood: it is not the case in the proposal that we are asking that it be the state that should cover this. I understand very well that there have been objections that we need to look at different ways. No, we ask the state to find solutions, so that those who have been stolen money in these cases are kept harmless. There is a completely open hole in our legislation about this, and it is also in this case the weakest who suffer. That is why I am pleased that there is support for the intention in this. So why don't we get a majority to clean it up? It could seem so very simple. Everyone realizes that these people have suffered unnecessary strain. I think the answer to that is in a kind of strange practice in the Norwegian big business. It is a sort of autopilot: if the proposal comes from the opposition, even a proposal where we all agree, it will be put to the vote. I am quite convinced that if this relationship had been discovered under the Red-Green Guard, while we were in government, representatives from the Right and the Advance Party would have made about the exact same proposal and the requirement for us – yes, but now you have to look to clean up this, they would require us, and come up with the same kind of wording as the Workers' Party and SV have made here. But this is not happening, and I don't think it's about the content of the matter, it's about the parliamentary situation, and it's about the fact that we almost vote on autopilot down or argue against what comes from the opposition. Then I'm going to give it to the government: the eight years of the red-greens put in power, it was exactly the same way. We, my colleagues – I was not in favour – also voted against all the issues and proposals that came from the opposition then. I believe that the matter we are dealing with today is one of those matters in which everyone on the Storting agrees in principle with the intention. Nevertheless, we are not able to make a large majority, because we have a parliamentary tradition and a practice in which we vote down good proposals that come from the opposition. The unfortunate thing about it is that, in this case, this parliamentary practice actually affects the weakest, namely the people we are set to protect in this Chamber. They do not get the necessary protection from us. So the Right Party and the Advance Party say in their comments that they want to look at the whole thing, because this case raises many fundamental questions. It's very fine, I totally agree with that, but there's nothing in the proposal that's been submitted here, which prevents us from looking at that whole thing. That is precisely what is in the proposal, that we should look at the whole thing. We ask the government to come back with a proposal on how this difficult situation can be resolved. There is nothing in our proposal that conflicts with the comments made by the Right and the Progressive Party in this matter. What prevents us from making a solution for the most weak in society is, in fact, a parliamentary practice in which we agree with each other, even if we agree with our intention. I think that's bad, and that's something we should think about in different political matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1469	I agree that it would appear unreasonable if the keeper were not to be replaced by the value that the forget has lowered. I'm busy finding a good solution for these cases. The disagreement in this case really applies to which procedure we should now choose. The proposal for a representative, and the Committee's recommendation, promoted by the members of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, is very far-reaching. There have been some limitations: the loss must be economic, the act in question must be criminal or negligent, and the scheme must last at least three years in time. For me, it is unclear why the rapporteurs and the majority of the committee have chosen precisely these limitations. It is close to believing that it may have a connection with the concrete points of reference which were the background to the proposal for a representative. However, there are several ways to target, and it is preferable to choose a path that does not have undesirable effects. The proposal under consideration today may include, inter alia: create expectations for the extension of State liability in several areas. I therefore believe that you have to tread very carefully and think well about it. A number of factors need to be considered and economic and administrative impact limits and calculations have to be made. In particular, it is important to consider whether the proposal may have undesirable consequences. To make it a little more concrete, I mention unwanted consequences that the proposal can get if it is not adjusted. The proposal will cover all associations, including those close to family members of the guardians, for example: a child. If the confiscation that has subdued funds is also the heir of the same keeper, it may be that the criminal offence is left to be compensated by the state, and it may be if he inherits the keeper and he has not been able to seek recourse for the loss. No one believes that a guardian who has acted negligently should be rewarded in such a way. It has been argued that the rule could also be very difficult to deal with in practice. This could be done, for example, by: are challenging to determine whether a failure is being made, or whether there has been an advance on inheritance at the request of the proprietor. Therefore, there is no need to rush through and take a decision, for it may have untold consequences. On the other hand, the Ministry has started work on identifying possible alternative solutions. One of the solutions may be a private insurance scheme, as is the case for lawyers, including lawyers. That is an alternative I think we need to look at. This work and investigation should be completed before a specific solution is locked. Incomplete or missing investigations also increase the risk of decisions being taken which are unlucky and which may have undesirable effects. I am therefore concerned that we have to think completely and in principle and come up with the solutions that also harmonize with the rest of the legal system. I therefore believe that it would not be appropriate to conclude that a new State compensation scheme should be established in line with this proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1486	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1491	I have now been breathed again after a little quick access to the hall. Just to be quite clear: is it the case that the Council of State agrees with the majority of the Committee that it is manifestly unreasonable that the guardian suffers permanent damage and financial loss in criminal acts carried out by his own guardian?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1498	As I just mentioned from the pulpit, the ministry is now working on an arrangement that allows us to better protect the keeper, so that we can avoid such cases. I think the idea of the representative proposal is very good, and I think the disagreement here is largely about how we should do it. We believe that the proposal of the majority in the committee is a little too far-reaching, and it also creates several types of issues, such as: in the case of the debt requirement. Criminal or negligent? Is it, then, that there has to be a judgment? It's e.g. a little difficult to get a judgment for negligent failure because the debt claim there is still there.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1504	Is it the case that, as the Government parties in the Committee seem to believe, it should be assessed in the future whether all those who assume responsibility for being worthy should also be required to invest in their own insurance? In that case, does the Council of State feel that this will strengthen the ability of ordinary people to assume responsibility for the insurrection? I think the Council of State is right to expect that quite ordinary people who assume responsibility for being worthy, for example. a relative shall be required to be required to have adequate insurance in order to be able to carry out that activity?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1509	It's just one of the issues that makes us want to spend a little bit of time on this investigation. The representative highlights an important issue, because very many of the guards around Norway today are, for example, children or grandchildren of the landlord, and they all, most of them, do a great job for them — and for quite low pay. We must not forget that there are about 63 000 cases per year, and most of them are doing well, but we need to find an instrument that allows us to deal with it so that the keepers don't get big problems in the cases that aren't going so well. It probably requires thinking a little bit better than what this proposal for a representative says, and getting a proper analysis of it, so that when we come up with a solution, it is a sound and good solution for all parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1514	How quickly does the Council of State see that we can put in place a good system that ensures that the keeper does not face such losses as we have seen in this matter to which reference is made from the pulpit?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1519	Now we are in the process of collecting information from the state civil law administration. It's a comprehensive system we're talking about. There's a lot of variation from weight to weight in what level you're at. Some are professional and have quite a number of assignment positions. Some of those who operate are lawyers, and they are then bound by the law and have insurance through it. There is a good deal that needs to be examined, and that is precisely why I do not think it appropriate to adopt the proposal for a representative today, because this requires further investigation, and it is a little too early to say when we can come back to the Storting with a possible new proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1524	I am pleased to hear that the Minister of Justice says clearly that he agrees with the intention, but that it is essentially about how they should do this. This is very nice. At the same time, he asks Stortinget to think about, think completely and in principle. I'm 100 pst. Agreed. I guess there's nothing in our proposal that prevents us from thinking completely and in principle, so I really don't understand that these things were going to collide with each other. Where I disagree, however, is when the Minister of Justice says that there is no need for urgency. What if there's a new case in the morning, another case in three days and one in five days, things similar to those we've seen here? I have to ask the Minister of Justice, what will he do for us to get a quick clarification of this, so that this situation does not arise again?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1531	This system has been a good time, but there are challenges with what is the description of the proposal by the proposers. The proposal is actually quite – what to say – precise. It gives a very specific indication of how far back it should be, it gives a concrete indication of what is to be the debt requirement. I believe that this proposal has not been sufficiently clarified. And when I say that there is no urgency, I mean it in that way that it has not been so hasty that a decision should be taken that can become unpresist – it is not unpresist – and that can have unintended consequences. I don't think anyone in the Storting now wants that. I think everyone here now wants us to make a good arrangement for this. That's what the department's going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1538	Of course, we want to have a good order, but then I ask the Minister of Justice to clarify: what in this proposal, in the text that is formulated here, prevents us from thinking completely and in principle? What we are asking for in this proposal is for the government to come back with a good order. Definitely there's an invitation to the government to investigate, as you say. The proposers have not locked themselves into a solution, we ask the government to come back with a solution that can find a good way out of this. So I ask you, what in this proposal is what should prevent us from thinking completely and in principle?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1543	The President will stress that the Councils of State are referred to as Council of State – and not as ‘you’ and ‘deg’.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1548	I really want to refer to the proposal. The proposal states that a system must be put in place quickly ‘to ensure that keepers who have suffered financial loss due to criminal or negligent actions from the grievances are kept harmless’. And just there it is, for example. such that a judgment is required. That is what you would like to see in order to establish that there has been a criminal act. But then comes the problem of what are negligent actions. How should one have a requirement of proof that something has been done negligently? For example: failure is not such that you have a rule of negligent failure. It shows just a little bit of the problem with this proposal, that it is not mature enough to be able to be dealt with in Stortinget today. And that's the question – whether it can be dealt with today. That is why I believe it is more reasonable for the department to investigate and come back, possibly with a new proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1555	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1573	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that there be no loopholes, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1582	I would like to refer to the 2018 Annual Report from the Selection of Judicial Indemnity. In this setting, the Committee notes that in 2018 the payment was 20.2 million. kr and that it is 1.3 million. kr less than 2017. The downtime background is primarily that the selection has dealt with fewer things in total. The Committee notes that the procedure period has fallen slightly from 2017 to 2018, which is positive. So the Labour Party and the Swedish Labour Party have put forward a proposal on the subject that the scheme should become better known. The fact that the number of seekers goes down is probably not because there is a smaller need, so you can get the impression from the government party. The judicial remedy system is often a last option for those who have not reached their targets when it comes to bullying, choice and care failure. And as you can see from the setting, there's been an investigation of the polling institute Norstat for the foundation Directing the losers, where it's very clear that the system is not well known. Of the 1,000 respondents, only 7 pst. who know of this system. So there's a need to make the system more familiar. I would also like to point out that all the parties in Stortinget in the 2017 election campaign promised that one would review all the arrangements relating to victims' compensation, etc. In particular, the Christian People's Party has completely abdicated in this matter, while we are waiting for, among other things. the follow-up of the NOU on victims of violence. I had hoped that the suggestions made by the Labour Party and the Swedish Labour Party today would have had multiples. I thought it was something special to be against this scheme becoming better known. We also believe that one should review the whole system and look at groups that are not covered by it, just as all the parties on the Stortinget have said that they want to do in general with both compensation and compensation schemes. If you're going to hold it in election fights, these proposals should have got more today. I'm taking up the suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1599	The representative, Mrs. Lene Vågslid, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1604	The capital’s legal compensation scheme is the Stortingen’s own compensation scheme, where individuals who have come out particularly unfortunate in meeting with the public can apply for a discretionary compensation. The scheme is based on custom and is not specifically regulated by formal rules. It is the Parliament's own judicial committee that decides on the cases. A new sample was appointed from 1 January 2018. The committee now consists of the head and former prime minister Arild O. Eidesen, Vice-Chairman and sorenist Kari Johanne Bjørnøy, member and staging representative Lise Christoffersen of the Workers' Party and member and staging representative Bente Stein Mathisen of the Right. During 2018, 11 meetings were held in the sample and 323 cases were decided, compared with 380 cases in 2017. This is a decline in decided cases of 15 pst. It was paid 20.2 million in 2018. kr in legal compensation from the State, which is 1.3 million. kr less than 2017. Lower total payments are mainly due to the fact that the sample has dealt with fewer issues. The main reason for the decline in the number of cases dealt with is that in 2018, slightly fewer applications were received. A total of 429 applications for legal compensation were received, compared with 448 in 2017, and this represents a decrease of 4 pst. from last year. The decline is due, inter alia, to: fewer applications are received under the special scheme for former children’s protection. The decrease in the number of applications under this special scheme is natural, as most of them have been dealt with. When there are several people who have responded that the appropriations for this scheme have been somewhat reduced, I just want to say that it is simply a natural consequence that you have adjusted the estimate for how much you are going to pay out. But the appropriations are still above what was paid for last year. I just want to remind you that this is a rights-based scheme, so it is not a current issue that someone does not get paid the compensation that is awarded, if the appropriations prove to be too small.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1617	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1633	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1642	On behalf of the rapporteur, Mr Horne, I would like to thank the Cooperation Committee, and I would like to thank the representative Horne for her work on what has been a comprehensive review of an important annual report. Norway is a country where human rights are strong, but also in a country such as Norway we need a debate on human rights in different areas of society. It is safe to say that these are issues that are taken much more seriously in Norway than in many other countries, and that there is a broad political consensus on the importance of human rights and the rights of individuals, despite the fact that we have political disagreements in some cases. The Norwegian Human Rights Institute, NIM, was established by the Stortinget in 2015 and shall be an independent body for the protection of human rights in Norway. A large proportion of their work is about how human rights are implemented nationally. Since the 1990s, the UN has asked all countries to establish national institutions to guarantee human rights. There are now 120 national human rights institutions in the world. Of these, 78 have so-called "A" status, the highest status that a national institution can have. In 2017, NIM got such a status, which we can all be proud of. NIM’s annual report shows that we are living at a time when human rights are under intense pressure in many countries and that the rise in human rights is being reduced in several countries. The institution points out that the debate on human rights is healthy, including in Norway, where human rights are strongly anchored. NIM also points out that this was most recently stated in the revision of the Constitution, when the Storting decided to introduce a separate chapter on precisely human rights. NIM is going through several issues in the report more closely, and I am going to highlight some of these on behalf of the case rapporteur. One important theme to address is violence and assault. NIM indicates that violence and abuse in close relationships still pose a problem in Norway – which we all in this room agree politically on trying to combat – which is particularly true for those directly affected, but it is also a social problem when viewed from a slightly larger perspective. 150 000 people experience violence in close relationships each year, and every 10 young people have experience of violence by superiors. Also, the increase in reported rapes and sexual assaults are signs of a trend we want to get rid of, and one of the important things NIM stresses in its Annual Report. Other themes that will be considered include: Courts. It is noted that it is important that the courts have sufficient resources to maintain legal certainty, and that is important in order to safeguard human rights, a political priority that we agree on in this Chamber. I would also like to mention the situation in prisons, where it is clarified that it is important that isolation is not used more than is necessary, and that isolation in prisons in general is poorly consistent with Norway's human rights obligations and with the political objectives pursued. I don't want to go into the different topics in this article, but I'm sure that the further debate will give us a discussion on other topics as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1659	To use the words of the Norwegian Institute for Human Rights on the Annual Report in 2018: «The NIM themes deal with this Annual Report, everyone has marked the 2018 Human Rights Year – that is why we have prioritised precisely them.» Then they point out the most striking issues from a human rights point of view, which they will make us here in the Storting paying particular attention to: violence and abuse, the resource situation in the courts of the country and the mentally ill in prison. NIM conveys in a low and sober way what is perhaps the most important thing for a liberal democracy, that, in addition to the rule of law, human rights are the most important thing to protect individuals from abuse in the name of the multiple. It gives us a reminder that human rights set some limits for us politicians, but also how we should use the space of action that exists. It is important, especially now, at a time when politicians in more and more countries and increasingly closer to us geographically do not have the human rights inboard, where freedom of expression is getting worse and worse, and where the courts become less independent. I would like to extend a great deal of thanks to NIM for the work that has been done to spread knowledge of human rights, and for NIM monitoring in such a good way that no fundamental rights are broken. The priority is to respond to the three areas of NIM itself, and that is, as Gulati mentions, among other things. Selected and assaulted. The Labour Party has worked actively for several years not only to raise it as a social problem, but as the serious crime it actually is, both in the alternative state budgets we have submitted, and in the recurring demand we have, that we need an action plan that is committed and funded and that we can follow up systematically, as we had the tradition of before. It is necessary to follow up the NIM pointed out in the annual report. Therefore, it is not good enough for the government party to describe the report. I also expect answers to how they intend to follow up the challenges. This year, as last year, we propose that the UK should ask the Government to draw up an overall sectoral action plan against violence in close relations, on the basis of the commitments that we have all been committed to in the Istanbul Convention. That action plan should reflect the special needs of vulnerable groups, just as NIM points out, especially in the case of Sami outlaws. For the Labour Party's part, we come subsidiaryly to support SV's proposal No. 4th@item: inlistbox So NIM takes the situation to the courts in its annual report. The situation in the case of independence is under pressure in several places in Europe. These changes happen quickly, and it shows that we cannot take it for granted for all time that we have independent courts. NIM further states that both the Constitution and the EMK give leadership to the State's duty to ensure independence from the courts. Resources give freedom and independence, even in the case of the courts, and therefore minimum requirements are set for the amount of resources that the State must provide to the courts. This obligation requires, for example: a difficult resource situation is not good enough reason for not adding enough judges, so that matters can be decided both independently and not at least within reasonable time. This was mentioned in 2017. Then a crowd said that the government would make sure that the courts were both organised and financed, so that matters could be settled within a reasonable time. This decision was taken correctly in December 2018, when the previous annual report was discussed, and it may not be entirely unthinkable that one has not yet endorsed it in the revised budget, but it should at least provide clear leadership for the State budget for 2020. As I had expected, the government party was behind it in the annual report of the year. The courts are under pressure. The government party is trampling the court budget, and I don't think it's in line with the duty we have to secure independent courts, nor in line with the will of the Stortinget, cf. the decision we take during the examination of the annual notification last year. I take this into account the suggestions we have on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1680	The representative, Mrs. Lene Vågslid, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1685	As previous speakers have said, Norway is among the countries in the world where the human rights situation is good – a country characterised by high trust between people and governmental powers, openness, respect for fundamental rights, order and security, and independent courts. These are values that are important to keep alive. We see that human rights are under pressure in several parts of the world, and despite the fact that they have a strong democratic anchor in us, it is important that we in our country also regularly evaluate and debate where we stand on these important questions. In particular, this is important within groups in society that are particularly vulnerable and vulnerable. The Norwegian Institute of Human Rights points to important and relevant areas where there may be a basis for further consideration of the need for action. One of these areas is the situation of incarceration in prisons with mental disorders or drugrelated challenges. It has been reported that the population of prisoners has a higher incidence of mental illness than the population otherwise. I am pleased that the government takes seriously the challenge of isolation and exclusion from community. It is also established in the Granavolden platform, which has been negotiated between the four government parties. The use of isolation should be reduced, and the provision of treatment for those with mental challenges should be strengthened. An action plan on isolation in prison is being drawn up and the Ministry is reviewing the legislation on exclusion from the community and the use of coercive measures. The state budget for 2019 included: So let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see. to establish a strengthened Community department of Ila for seriously mentally ill inmates. The Directorate of Criminal Welfare has also developed guidelines for the prevention of suicide and strengthened their competence in mental disorders and the prevention of overdoses. Efforts have been made to increase the activation of the most vulnerable inserts. through low threshold activities and shared working days. They have developed knowledge-based strategies to address these challenges that criminal services are working with. Those responsible for health services are also responsible for the follow-up of health services to those deployed. The Ministry of Health and Health has pointed out to regional health practitioners that the supply of mental health protection for prisoners should be strengthened. Good dialogue between the Ministry of Justice and Security and the Ministry of Health and Welfare on these issues is necessary to ensure a common understanding of how the challenges can best be addressed in the future. I am happy to read in the Criminal Service's annual report for 2018 that the particular use of the security cell has gone back significantly. I am also pleased that in 2018 there was no breach of deadlines for transfer from police detention to prison as a result of lack of detention. Powers and abuses in close relationships are a major societal challenge that makes everyday life both child and adult insecure and has serious consequences for those in debt. On the one hand, it is a good thing that several cases are detected. For many decades, violence and assault have gone behind closed doors, where society has otherwise left an eye to the problem instead of offering help. It's not like that anymore. In the Granavolden platform, it is decided that an active policy should be put in place to strengthen the fight against violence and abuse in close relations. With this option, the government party shows that this is an important policy area that one should take seriously and follow up. by further developing the action plan against the choice in close relationships. Human rights are strong in Norwegian society – a democratic value that we have a duty to protect. I am confident that the government of the respective departments will take the Norwegian Institute of Human Rights' recommendations seriously and follow them up in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1706	The annual report from the Norwegian Institute for Human Rights, NIM, gives us a good overview of how Norway shoots its bow when it comes to human rights. The work of securing fundamental rights for all human beings, such as freedom, equality and dignity, is an important responsibility for us as elected representatives. NIM’s annual report gives the Stortinget a good insight into how human rights are followed up in government. This way, the Size feature can be used to monitor that non-rooted rights are not broken. In 2014, the Stortinget decided to introduce an own chapter on human rights in the Constitution. This is, and was, an important signal to other countries in Europe and places where human rights are put under pressure. Norway is a safe and democratic country where citizens can expect human rights to be respected. At the same time, we need a continuous debate on human rights in Norway as well. Because as this and previous NIM reports show, we still have a bit to go. I would like to thank NIM for a thorough and good annual report. The report covers many different themes, including: the choice and abuse, lack of resources at national courts and human rights for the elderly. Last year, NIM has also paid particular attention to the treatment of mental illness in prison. This is all of the important issues that the Storing and Government are forced to focus on in the future. The state's responsibility is more than that the authorities should refrain from violating their citizens' human rights. Authorities shall also ensure that citizens are not subject to human rights violations. This includes, inter alia: that the authorities are responsible for the prevention, investigation and prosecution of offences and follow-up of those who are subject to violence and violence. The central party is involved in making proposals today asking the government to develop a superior, cross-sectoral action plan against violence in close relations. This action plan should reflect the special needs of vulnerable groups. The independence of the courts is under pressure from several places in Europe. These changes have taken place quickly and show that no independent court will be able to handle them. The State has an obligation to ensure the independence of the courts and to ensure that they are adequately provided with resources. For several years, however, the government has carried out major economic cuts in the courts. The rationale for this has been to contribute to red tape and efficiency. But the courts are not any kind of underlying directorate. The courts are the third state power, and the resource situation is beginning to be critical. Kutta is unaccountable and at home good operation and necessary investment. More courts need to be demolished. When the NIM's Annual Report for 2017 was discussed, a mass demand for the government to ensure that the courts are organised and financed in such a way that they can defend human rights. But the government didn't make sure the permissions were set. I would like to remind you that this government has multiples in Stortinget, so it is not possible for the opposition to reverse this development on its own. The annual report underlines that the situation in prison is a human rights challenge. The basic human rights principle is that isolation should only be used where strictly necessary. Despite this, isolation is widely used in Norwegian prisons. Norway has repeatedly received criticism of the use of isolation against mentally ill people treated in prison. The Official Journal of Bergen has shown that 39 pst. of all decisions on coercive use in five prisons were based on self-harm, attempted suicide or poor mental health. It is necessary to improve the registration of such coercive decisions. It is also necessary for the government to follow the necessary recommendations of the Directorate of Criminal Affairs and the 2016 report of the Directorate of Health. The centre party is in favour of proposing this today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1729	Then I realized that the representative has taken up the proposal he referred to?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1734	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1739	The representative Geir Inge Lien then mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1744	A debate on Norway’s human rights institution can take place in two ways. We can either address matters, or we can discuss – and it deserves a debate – the constitutional role of the Stortinge in dealing with such a report. I'll take the last one now, and then in a later article I'll discuss the issues. The state has a fundamental task of securing the population, ensuring our security and the rights of its citizens. It is also the case that according to the Constitution, the Stortinget has the top responsibility for the state of human rights in Norway, and we actually have a separate responsibility in this room to ensure human rights. I see that the government parties in general perceive that it is their task to close this report through Stortinget and further to the government. The reality treatment here is perceived as going through the report and reflecting on it, but not going into the individual issues. I do not think that is a sufficient way to handle such a report. The government parties believe that we should take this report for information. Human rights in Norway shall not be taken for information – they shall be treated. We're the first state power, with the top responsibility, and we're going to go into it actively. When processing previous reports, we have at least asked the government to come back to the Storting so that we could hear how they have viewed the different things. We will not be able to do this either. In other words, the Storting majority sees themselves as a mailbox for human rights management in Norway. I think that's very alarming, and it's constitutionally challenging. There's a disclaimer in exactly this. In order for the Storting to discharge its constitutional obligations, the substance of the report must in fact be dealt with. Then Stortinget must have the courage to point out what things we want to prioritise, and in what areas we want the government to get a marshaller to work on. We will send a message to the government that this is the condition we want it to correct. It shouldn't be that we just take it for information, and then nothing happens anymore. Why is it important that we somehow strengthen the constitutional role and strengthen the responsibilities of the Biggest? Well, that's precisely because we're going to increase the status of human rights in Norway. Several speakers have said that the position of human rights in Norway is so good. Maybe that's why this magnification has such a weak relationship with the treatment of human rights, precisely because we have an idea that it's so good? It won't last. If there was something that had earned a full hall, it is precisely the treatment of human rights by the Stortinge in Norway – which is our primary responsibility. There is a lack of justice committee here – I'm sorry, but the committee is not even full. There is no indication that this increase is taking human rights in Norway seriously. This approach is not sufficient to increase the status of human rights in Norway. There is a need to strengthen our constitutional role and our responsibilities and to point out that we are constitutionally required to do so. So we have to go into this and deal with it in a completely different way – do not waive our responsibility. There is also an international responsibility to process the human rights in this Chamber. How are we going to make demands on other countries that have massive violations of human rights? How are we going to make demands on them, and with what right can we do that when we deal with human rights in Norway in this way in this Chamber, and the government parties take this report solely for information, but are not willing to go in and prioritize and give marshallers to the government on this? It gives a very bad signal to other countries when we treat it this way. Just to sum up: I think there is a strong need to develop Storting's practice in dealing with NIM's annual report and human rights in Norway. We need to clarify our constitutional role in this. We need to give priority to the matters we think it is important to deal with, and we need to inform the government about how this should be done. I will explain in my next article what matters I think we should give priority to, and will finally address the SV's proposal on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1768	The representative Petter Eide has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1773	Norway’s human rights institution, NIM, has a central role in promoting and protecting human rights in Norway. Since NIM was established by law in 2015, the institution has been a strong professional player and a clear voice. Firstly, NIM makes an important effort to communicate and provide information on Norway’s human rights obligations, thus contributing to increased knowledge of human rights both in individuals, to which human rights are to be protected, and in the authorities and society. NIM has made a number of recommendations to the Ministry and Government in its annual and other forms, such as meetings and hearings. The Councils and recommendations of NIM are generally important and welcome input when the ministries and the government are to decide on what should be done in the various areas of activity. I feel that there is a good dialogue between NIM and my own department, the Ministry of Justice and Defence. NIM has also issued a thorough annual report for 2018 with a number of useful recommendations to the Ministry and Government. The Justice Committee highlights three areas of action relating to the responsibilities of the Ministry of Justice and Defence — violence in close relations, the resource situation of the courts and the situation of mentally ill in prisons. Violence in close relationships is a serious and significant societal problem, and, as NIM has pointed out in its thematic report, there are some specific challenges in the Sami community. This takes the government seriously. As the members of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights have pointed out, the fight to combat violence in close relations is an important field of action for this government. It's true, as NIM points out, that many of the prisoners in prison have a mental disorder and problems with drugs. The government takes the challenges of this – and the challenges of isolation and exclusion from the community – seriously and continuously reduce the use of isolation and strengthen treatment provision in the field of mental health protection in criminal care. With regard to the courts, I would first like to agree with the Committee that the framework conditions of the courts are central to the independence of the courts. Just to ensure that the courts in the future are best equipped to meet high expectations of efficiency and quality, the Government reduced the Court Commission in 2017. I look forward to receiving the Commission's investigations, the first coming now in October this year. Finally, I agree with the majority in the Committee on Legal Affairs' assessment that a system should not be introduced whereby the government routinely reports to the Stortinget on each recommendation in the NIM's Annual Report. The recommendations from NIM are many and quite different in nature, and in my view, such a new reporting procedure will be of little use. The annual report may also provide the Stortinget with a basis for selecting issues that it is desirable to ask the government or the individual Council of State to address. It will respond well to the arrangements for the management of the annual report from the Civil Ombudsman.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1796	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1801	For several years, the Labour Party has proposed that the government should develop a new action plan against violence in close relations and sexual abuse. We had a long and good tradition for this before, but the right-wing government has not followed up on this work. NIM recommends a cross-sectoral action plan, points to the obligations we have under the Istanbul Convention, and particularly highlights the challenges of Sámi violence. Governments say the government takes this seriously. The government is good at commenting on the situation, but makes a few suggestions for action. So my question is, how does the Minister of Justice come to take this seriously – because it must mean that the Council of State has intended to do something about it? What is the reason for this resistance to developing such a cross-sectoral action plan that NIM calls for?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1808	In 2016, the government presented an escalation plan against violence in close relations and violence and abuse against children and young people. It is based on the previous action plan and will run until 2021. The government has said that it is our policy to maintain this plan. In this way, we will also look at the issue of violence in Sami environments, in particular. But it is not enough just to provide an action plan. More research must also be done. This is why we have reduced a sample to look at, for example. partner-drap.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1815	No, it is quite right in the Council of States – a very fundamental thing for it to work is that the plans are funded. The plan of action against violence and abuse was far from being funded, lacks a number of important measures and had excluded older people as a group in total. Thus, we have wished for an action plan that is cross-sectoral, similar to the one we had in the past and with good experience. The NIM recommendation is also very clear. So we believe that it is of great value that the government informs the Storting in a good way when it comes to the report, and we suggest that the government come to the Storing with a collective representation, not as the council referred to from the pulpit, about how the 2018 recommendations are followed up. The government party believes that this is not the case. My question, then, is, in what way will not such a collective representation or reporting to the Storting be justifiable?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1822	You can always disagree on how to report back. I think the most important thing is that we have implemented the advice and recommendations of NIM in our daily work, because that is where things can happen – in the daily work to ensure that, for example, The courts are independent, and in the day-to-day work to ensure better chances of caring for the mentally ill in prisons. The recommendations must provide clear guidance on how work is to be carried out in practice, and I think that is actually more important than how it is reported back. With the proposal on reporting back, Stortinget will receive good information on how to follow up the various points in the NIM report. I feel confident that Stortinget will be well informed about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1829	We had some bad experiences last year with how the government chose to respond to NIM's recommendations. It took a very long time, and I think one could do this in a better way through a mass production in Stortinget. If the government really takes this very seriously and is going to implement it in the day-to-day work ahead, wouldn't it be a good idea for a Minister of Justice and a government to come to the Greatness and both boast and point to all the good measures we can now expect when it comes to the fight against violence in close relations, strengthening the courts and, not least, the work on mental illness in Norwegian prison?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1834	The system we're putting up with now will be pretty close to the way we respond to reports from the Civil Ombudsman. So there's already a practice in Stortinget on how to deal with such things, and I think it might make sense that this NIM report is being handled in the same way. It gives good answers to the Storting, and it also provides a good foundation for discussions on how the government has followed up the recommendations.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1839	NIM refers to the widespread use of isolation in Norwegian prisons, which in many cases run counter to human rights. NIM presents very serious figures from its annual report, such as that of 92 pst. in Norway, there are signs of personality disorder, that 12 pst. In the United Kingdom, the number of drugrelated deaths among prisoners is estimated to be between 8 and 8 years, and 848 prisoners are in need of treatment for mental disorders that prisons do not have the competence to treat. Norway has received international criticism for the treatment of mental illness in Norwegian prisons. How will the Council of State improve the provision of health in Norwegian prisons and ensure that mentally ill prisoners receive the necessary health care?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1845	In November 2018, the Police Directorate issued a new instruction on the use of police arrests. The instruction contains a number of provisions ensuring the human rights requirements related to residence in the arrest. The arrestee shall be allowed to receive visits from others where it is practicable and it is not contrary to order and safety. In addition, it shall be permitted to have contact with the other arrestees if it is practicable and it is not in conflict with the requirements of order and safety. From the time of insertion into the cell, the warden shall ensure that the need to take action to remedy the isolation effects of residence in the police detention centre is kept under constant review. This shall apply to all arrestees, irrespective of the grounds on which they are based. So a number of things have been done to improve the situation of the prisoners, especially in terms of isolation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1854	Through this report and also in the past, we have become familiar with a number of areas in Norway where human rights are not satisfactory. So my question is very specific: What areas of human rights – the Minister of Justice can mention one or two – does the Minister of Justice himself think are the most serious? An additional question: What specific instructions has the Minister of Justice given to do something about exactly one or two matters the Minister of Justice himself thinks are the most serious?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1859	I find reason to stress that the human rights situation in Norway is quite good. But as NIM's report also points out, there are gaps and challenges. You can always get better, and this isn't a static right area. This is a dynamic area of justice, so that – what to say – you can also develop an increasingly better practice of human rights treatment. I have pointed out in my speech three areas that it has been important to address: the independence of the Court of Justice and, in particular, isolation and mental illness in Norwegian prisons. These are areas that have been important to us, not least this with violence in close relationships. These are areas that it has been important for us to address.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1866	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1873	As others have mentioned in their interventions, NIM points out the situation to mentally ill people who are isolated in prison, and they are not alone in this. The Civil Ombudsman has on several occasions pointed out the problem at several of our prisons. From the side of Storting, from the opposition, we have raised the issue of serious mental illness in prison on several occasions, and we have made concrete proposals that could alleviate the situation. The government responded to a small part of this challenge in the state budget for 2019 by granting 18.3 million. in order to establish a nationally strengthened Community department of the Ila prison and detention centre. This is a sign that the government is taking the situation seriously. And as the representative from the right here in the hall claims, it keeps focus on this. I visited Ila last month. There is no work going on there. There is not a nail turned on, there is not a wall shut down, nor is there actually a single drawing that shows how the new department should come into place. It is very difficult to imagine that this new department will be ready by the end of the year, so that health professionals can get in place and start work, as the government intended. In the light of the feedback I received during the visit, it does not appear that any of the work on the new department is ongoing. In view of the fact that both the government councils and the representatives of the government parties here in the Chamber have brought forward the work of serious mental illness in prison, it would now do very well for one from the government parties or the government council itself to confirm that, in fact, we are working at Ila, it will be followed up in line with the state budget, the new department will be in place by the end of 2019, so that health professionals and employees can start work on preventing serious mental illness in Norwegian prisons from being isolated, as they are today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1884	It says a little bit when the Labour Party has to go up to the pulpit and boast of the promises that the government has given. Perhaps the description from Maria Aasen-Svensrud may be a little bit of a reason why it is not mentioned. I also look forward to an answer from the Council of State to that very thing. NIM reminds us in the annual report that the State has a responsibility to ensure cooperation between the criminal and health services in order to meet the human rights requirements of the European Court of Human Rights (EMC) in its Article 3. Both the Directorate of Health and the Directorate of Public Health are concerned about whether the provision of health in Norwegian prison is satisfactory and whether mentally ill people are receiving help they are entitled to. There is every possible reason to be when reading the report, when you can see that 92 pst. 12 pst. have suicidal trends and 848 prisoners are in need of treatment for mental disorders that prison inmates do not have the competence to treat. In addition, we have all read in Bergen's Official Journal at 39 pst. Forcibly adopted decisions in five prisons provide grounds for self-injury, attempted suicide or poor mental health. The civilombudsman has been clear in his speech – missing crews cause serious mental illness and suicidal interventions to risk being placed on security cells without follow-up. In addition, the rules of criminal enforcement do not require medical evaluation before enforcement measures are implemented. This is serious and unworthy. Something has to be done with this situation. There is every reason to be concerned when good action from the right government, as the means to Ila actually was, may seem to have not even been started. And it's not just the Worker's Party that points to the problem -- it does several opposition parties. It is not only NIM, it is also the UN Human Rights Committee, the United Nations Torture Committee, the CRPD Committee and the European Torture Building Committee, both in 2018 and 2019. The Labour Party supports the NIM's recommendations and makes proposals in the Pact. In the annual report, NIM has also addressed human rights challenges in a number of other areas, which we are not expected to address today, and makes clear recommendations on how they can be followed up. Therefore, I would like to express very strongly that I think it is important that the government follow it up, but that one also comes back to Stortinget – if not in the way that we want, then in that way one finds it best, perhaps in budgetary context or other contexts. In fact, we expect more than that the government party is standing here on the pulpit in Stortinget and problem description. I think it'll end the eternal problem description without making any suggestions for action.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1899	When a question was not asked in the reply box, I would like to be able to ask it now, and I hope that the minister would like to give an answer to that question. That applies to the courts. Over time, the courts have been in a very demanding resource situation. NIM stresses that the funding of the courts is linked to the independence of the courts. Courts are being demolished because of the economic downturn in the length of the trial period. There will also be decisions about centralisation through joint rental and pooling of courts, arguing that it will provide savings. This weakens legal certainty and people's access to justice. What is the Council of State's view of the critical economic situation of the courts? That's what I'm asking. In addition, I would like to mention an important element in NIM's annual report where it appears that Norway's follow-up to international law in the export of arms and ammunition to states that are warring in Yemen can be deficient. NIM points out that the export of defence equipment to countries in this conflict weakens Norway’s human rights record. For this reason, the Central Party is on a proposal asking the government to come back to Stortinget with a proposal on how Norwegian legislation on the export of weapons should be practised, so as to avoid violations of international law and humanitarian law.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1908	The representative Eide called the position’s attitude to the treatment of this annual report on human rights in general as a mailbox handling or discharge. It's a description I disagree with, but we all have, after all, a division of power and the division of labour between magnificence and government that we, representing the government parties here, consider to be followed up in a good way. The laws we adopt in this Chamber must be good within the framework and take into account both the human rights that we respect, and the conventions and international agreements that we are part of. This enlargement, or this hall, also chose to amend the Constitution to strengthen the position of human rights in Norway in the way that is the responsibility of the Grand Duchy by the adoption of laws – in addition to the annual allocation and adoption of budgetary frameworks to strengthen the areas of society that we believe need strengthened budgets. Violence in close relationships, and not least the fight against sexual abuse in general, has been an important priority for this government. The funds have been increased, including the availability of free resources, to the police. And the police reform, for which we have adopted many of the leaders in this Chamber, is being carried out precisely by one of the main reasons, which is to strengthen the police's ability to solve that kind of task. We know that violence and sexual assault are some of the types of violence that are increasing most rapidly and that in the future we will need more knowledge and better expertise in the police than we have in recent years. There is probably some difference in view among the parties here of how Stortinget will follow up the recommendations in the NIM report. We, who represent the government parties, believe that the best way to do it is in the daily work of the departments, that you have a constant awareness of the challenges when you are working in the day-to-day direction of the country. We in Stortinget have the opportunity to raise the issues we want, and not least through budgetary procedures, to strengthen the areas that we believe should be strengthened. I could mention several things about mental illness in prison, as examples of how the government has strengthened that work. Not least, the Granavolden platform says that this is something we want to raise. When it comes specifically to the question of the progress plan for Ila, there is something I unfortunately do not know about.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1919	I maintain my criticism that the government parties have a mailbox approach to this. I have not seen any concrete proposals from the representative Gulati or others on what you think the government should continue. They make no demands on the government to do this, and they do not make any concrete proposals as to what the government should give priority to. I note that representatives from the Right and the Advance Party are taking this report for information, but without making any concrete proposals as to what should be given priority. It's irresponsible. The size is primarily responsible for human rights in Norway, and despite the division of power that Gulati mentions, there is nothing in the way of the Storting taking on an independent responsibility for what the Storting believes must be prioritised. SV has addressed three specific issues that we believe the government should have in terms of improving human rights, on the basis of this report. I'm not going to spend so much time on the first one, because it's about mentally ill, which is a repetition in this room, and which we've discussed a lot. We've been discussing how the people in criminal care have to be relieved of the responsibility of those who are so sick that they have nothing to do in prison. It also comes back in the NIM report with recommendations from there. So this time we're taking up a variety of violence, assault and rape. It is about violence and abuse in indigenous communities, especially in Sami environments. We see that there is a far greater problem of violence in those environments than it is in the ethnic Norwegian population. This is to the extent that a picture we see in indigenous peoples around the world, but we have too little knowledge of why it is so in Norway. We are asking here for an action plan to better figure this out, so that we can come up with reliable measures to do something about this. The last thing we're concerned about, which is a little new and perhaps surprising to many people that NIM addresses, is how the export of weapons from Norway can actually entangle Norway into human rights violations and violations of humanitarian law. NIM has been concerned about reminding us of the idea of Norwegian arms legislation from 1959, which is to ensure that weapons and defence equipment from Norway do not go to war or threaten war, or where there are human rights violations. We are aware that this is very much about the conflict in Yemen, and we follow up NIM in this and ask the government to come back and clarify the Norwegian legislation, so it becomes clearer that Norwegian exports of weapons and defence equipment do not contribute to violations of human rights and humanitarian law.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1930	In my previous post, I gave a sort of loophole to the government parties – and the state council, in the best way – so that they could take advantage of the opportunity to boast that they will follow up at least one of the points that NIM is concerned with in their report, namely how it is with the seriously mentally ill in prisons, and what one wants to do with this – how one of the government parties or councils sees that one will follow up the progress of Ila and the new department there. That no one has commented on it might indicate that I hit the nail on my head. Maybe I'm right in my assumption that nothing is happening to the new department in Ila. And if some of my colleagues from the government parties – or perhaps the state council – knew something about this and wanted to make a statement, I might have expected them to hurry up to this pulpit to reassure a fairly concerned representative. At least I hoped that the Council of State would be able to give a very small account of how the progress plan at Ila was taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1937	There were several who raised questions that I thought it was natural for me to comment a little. The representative of the Central Party addressed this with the independence of the courts and concerns related to the budgetary situation. But I think the representative missed a bit when he pointed out that the court administration does not have independence, and that therefore they are bringing together different courts. The majority has said that the Court of Justice has authority to do so as long as it is voluntary from the courts themselves. This is a process that the courts are actually dealing with quite alone. The court committee makes a recommendation in October. We'll deal with it when we get it, and look at what they're making out of recommendations. Then we will send a matter to Stortinget about it. There have also been some questions about arms exports. Here I will refer to Report. St. 26 for 2018-2019, which was submitted by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on 7 June, detailing in detail the NIM’s input into the implementation of international legal obligations for the control of exports of defence equipment, as well as the Export Control Code and the Guidelines of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The paper on export control is now sent to the committee for further consideration in Stortinget. Then there were some questions about a donation to Ila prison. This is an appropriation of 18.3 million. kr in the State budget for 2019, to establish a strengthened Community department in the Ila prison for seriously ill prisoners. I can't tell you what's going on in the state budget for 2020 – there probably has to be the Storting waiting for us to make a proposition about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1951	The representative of Maria Aasen-Svensrud has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1956	I just want to clarify that I did not ask about the appropriations in the State budget that are coming for 2020. I asked for an explanation of how the appropriations allocated for 2019 for the strengthened Community department in Ila have been used and what the Council of State might think about the progress of Ila. If the Council of State cannot answer now, I can reassure him that I sent a written question at the end of last week, so that the Council of State will have plenty of time to formulate and give the opposition an answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1961	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1977	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will suggest that there are no replications and that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1986	On this matter, I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation on behalf of the rapporteur, Mr Horne. This agreement and this proposition facilitate effective assistance between Norway and Sweden's specialised police intervention units in emergency situations or whether there are serious incidents or direct threats to persons, property, institutions or other infrastructure. Such aid cases will be particularly relevant in terrorist incidents, hostage-taking, hijacking or other serious crime, and it is good to see that the two countries with such an agreement can play on their own forces to cooperate in such serious incidents. The special effort units are defined as police national response capacities. This would normally mean the emergency team, the helicopter service, the bombing service, the emergency and hostage dealer service, as well as tactical and technical screening. Correspondingly, this will apply on the Swedish side. A Swedish unit assisting Norwegian police will always operate under Norwegian command and be subject to Norwegian rules. Therefore, the agreement does not provide for any form of sovereignty. In conclusion, I just want to say that it is gratifying that an overall committee is behind this proposition, and I would like to thank once again for the cooperation in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e1995	SV is a member of international cooperation. We are followers of international defence cooperation in the Nordic countries, and we are also followers of international police cooperation. So that's fine, and I fully agree with the representative Gulati that it's especially important in crisis situations. When I take the floor, it is because I want us in a situation of increased police cooperation to be vigilant in terms of arms. We have seen that both in Norway and Sweden there has been a surge in police use of weapons. I can mention that the police in Sweden, according to statistics, use weapons on their hips and also shoot four times more than the Norwegian police do. I don't want to get into a situation where cooperation with the police from another country helps lower the threshold for the use of weapons. Situations usually handled by Norwegian police without weapons shall not lead to more use of weapons by joint operations as such. The reason why this is particularly vulnerable when we form part of a joint command with police forces from another country is precisely that there are two different police cultures that meet each other. There may be different command lines that you are not familiar with, and that means there is a risk that we will have an increased spread of weapons use in these types of operations. That is why I am very pleased with what the government actually specifies – that borrowed service personnel involved in host country interventions, i.e. in Norway, will operate in accordance with laws and regulations in Norway, in accordance with their mandates in Norway. Similarly, Swedish police who may be in Norway should not follow Swedish weapons instructions; they should follow Norwegian weapons instructions. This means that this scheme states that it is the Norwegian arms instructions, which are stricter than the Swedish ones, to be used by Norwegian police when they are in Sweden, and also by Swedish police when they are in Norway. It's very good, and it's very important. Based on that, we have set up a very small control mechanism for this, and it is that we want the government to come back to Stortinget with an annual report on how weapons use and weapons permits are handled for both borrowed and borrowed personnel as a result of this particular agreement. With that, I'm submitting SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e2010	The representative Petter Eide has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e2015	This agreement between Sweden and Norway on mutual assistance between the two countries’ special effort units strengthens already close police cooperation between the two Nordic countries. This agreement provides for effective assistance between the two countries’ specialised police intervention units in emergency situations where there is a serious or direct threat to persons, property, institutions or other infrastructure. Assistance will be particularly relevant in the case of terrorist incidents, hostage-taking, hijacking or other serious crime. Police are a key player in managing crises and serious incidents in Norway, and it is crucial to have sufficient police resources to deal with different situations. In this respect, let me also remind you that our own national aid resources have been greatly strengthened in recent years. The emergency team, which is connected to the Oslo police district, but is to assist all over the country, has increased by over 50 p.m., and today I have accepted the new helicopters, which enable this emergency team to move quickly all over South Norway. In the other police districts, the number of so-called IP3 teams, i.e. the teams from Finnmark in the north to Agder in the south, which are the most trained and equipped for sharp missions, has increased from 650 in 2014 to over 1,000 officials and women today. At Taraldrud, our National Emergency Response Centre is being built. I want to mention this most of all to stress that much has been done to strengthen the police's ability to deal with serious crime and terrorist threats. At the same time, it will always be difficult to deal with a situation that extends over time and increases in scope, or when several serious incidents occur in different locations at the same time. Then it is of great importance that you have the opportunity to get help from a nearby country's special effort units. Problems related to the use of weapons were raised, and I can only confirm what we have said in the past to Stortinget in writing as well: It is the Norwegian weapons instructions that apply to Swedish police operating in Norway, and it is the Norwegian weapons instructions that apply to Norwegian police operating in Sweden if the Swedish weapons instructions are more extensive than the Norwegian ones, and they are.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e2028	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e2044	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will suggest that there are no replications and that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e2053	The aim of this Regulation is to improve and strengthen important cooperation in Europe, namely Frontex. This Regulation aims to strengthen the external borders of Europe. We know that's very important. It is not just about possible acute threats to Europe, it is also about ensuring the economic, social and political stability in the long term, which we know is important to protect. The regulation gives Frontex an even more active role in assisting Schengen Member States. Frontex will also have a role in the return of persons without a valid stay in the Schengen area. Overall, this is a very important matter for the EU and thus an important matter for Norway. I would like to thank the Committee on Health and Safety for its excellent work.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e2064	This case might remind you a little bit about the previous one. Initially, I was a little skeptical that Norway would lend the police in connection with Frontex. That doesn't mean we're against Frontex, we're for Frontex, but it's about how this should be done. We had a number of questions for the Ministry of Justice that we wanted to clarify before we could go into this arrangement. I'm going to take those questions very briefly, but I can give the conclusions right away. I think the answers from the Ministry of Justice were satisfactory, so that we will now accept the scheme on the basis of that. What was most important to us to clarify was: Who has the legal responsibility for the Norwegian personnel being lent? Will it be the command line in the host country they are in, or will it be in Norway? The answer we received was clear. It's Norway that's in charge. If the Norwegian police do something wrong, if there is some type of offence or anything else, they are responsible in Norway. That's an important clarification. It's not always like that. For example, when one has common command lines in the Defense, in military operations, it is not necessarily the same as the case. Then we asked questions about the use of power. It might remind you a little of the debate we had on the relationship between Norway and Sweden: Is it such that the Norwegian police can get an order for weapons use that might break with Norwegian weapons instructions? We were worried about that. The answer we received was very clear: the Norwegian police cannot use weapons that go beyond what is common in Norway, in addition to what is Norwegian weapons instructions. Similarly, if there are personnel to be lent to Frontex Control in Norway, arms regulations are to apply to borrowed personnel, even if they from their country of origin have different types of weapon regulation and arms permit. It is the Norwegian rules that apply. This is a very important clarification, which means that this will not necessarily lead to the spread of arms use in Norway. I just want to conclude by saying that it was absolutely essential for us to ask those questions. The answers we received were very thorough and will also follow this matter in the future. In the answers we received, the Ministry has also clarified the formal basis for how this should be handled. I am very pleased with that, and we can support this scheme on the basis of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e2077	It's always fun when you agree on something, and this is a good thing. In recent years, there has been a substantial legislative development in the area of justice and home affairs in the EU, and Norway has been actively involved through Schengen cooperation. The high level of activity has meant that it has taken longer than the Stortinget to present this proposal for the approval of the Regulation to the European Border and Coast Guard. I am very pleased that the Stortinget has now dealt with it and accept the government's proposal to accept this act. External border control is not just about controlling who enters the Schengen territory, but also about controlling who enters the Schengen territory. the fight against organised and cross-border crime. The proper functioning of these controls is essential for the internal security of the Schengen area and essential for maintaining an area of internal freedom of travel. The strong migration pressure against Europe in 2015, with a subsequent secondary movement of migrants within the Schengen territory, revealed shortcomings in the enforcement of the external border control. The establishment of the European Border and Coast Guard by Regulation 2016/1624 is a response to that. The European Border and Coast Guard Service consists of a European Border and Coast Guard Agency, which corresponds to former Frontex but with an extended mandate. Furthermore, the national authorities of the Member States, responsible for border control, including the Coast Guard, are included as far as they carry out border control tasks. The primary responsibility for the external border control remains with each Member State. The aim of the Regulation is to strengthen the implementation of Community legislation on external border controls, including better assistance for Member States wishing to assist in carrying out their obligations under the legislation. At the same time, it seeks to improve the efficiency of the return of third-country nationals without a residence permit in the Schengen area.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e2090	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e2107	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that – within the allocated speaking time – up to six rows of replies are given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e2114	The representative proposal from SV to open up passenger and freight services on the eastern line of Eastfold Railway to Sarpsborg has actually been quite exciting, especially since I am very interested in railway operations and those things there, but also since there are many things that can happen and that can be resolved not least. I must thank the Cooperation Committee, and I must also thank for the information we received when the Committee was on its way to Eastfold just a short time ago. There, the Directorate of Railways had clear information about the conditions of this route, and what kind of development we'd like to have in the future. Then we learned a lot. In addition, we have also received good information from the Ministry of Transport and are well up-to-date on the matter. It is such that the eastern line on the Eastfold line does not operate on any part of the area. From Ski to Wysen there is very great traffic, and it also goes down to Rakkestad in the rush hour, but between Rakkestad and Sarpsborg there is no operation today. Of course, it has to do with the fact that there is no market basis for it. The Directorate-General for Railways has clearly stated that there is no market basis for operating, whether for passenger or freight, on the current route. That's what's going to be the big voltage in the future, if it's going to be in the future. That's enough for the railway to become more and more popular. We're looking at the evolution in the number of passengers taking the rail, and we might need to use this line in a short time too, perhaps especially for goods. The Committee notes clearly that Borregaard in Sarpsborg and Norske Skog Saugbruksföreningen in Halden are positive if there is an increased need for freight trains to be used. And then you're open that you can solve it by opening that line. We look forward to developments here, but for the time being, the Railway Directorate has concluded that it is not a market base.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e2127	This is a good proposal and a good proposal in the document. I registered with the case rapporteur here that one was positive if Norske Skog and Borregaard wanted to get more freight trains. We can confirm that they want to. It's been known for a long time. I myself have been in several meetings with, among others. They are used in Halden, which has clearly said that they want to use more track, but they don't get it. And now it doesn't seem like you get it here today either. The Eastfold Railway has received a lot of publicity and criticism. If we go back a little bit in time, we all remember that the red-green government got criticism that it didn't build out quickly enough, you had to expand a lot faster. Now I record that this government is talking more about postponements and downscaling than faster progress, as promised to the inhabitants of Eastfold a few years ago. Then we also heard that this government was to be the best friend in the business world – and the best friend in Eastfold’s business life. I can't exactly say that it has also turned down completely when we see an airline passenger fee and a sugar charge that has been very negative for Østfold's jobs. So it's a little strange that you couldn't manage to get a majority here today that would have made sure you could open the east line, so that both the people and business in Eastfold could benefit from it. You could also have had some climate benefits of it. It is a pity that the government parties are so far negative that they cannot vote in favour of the proposal that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV are promoting here today. However, I take up the proposal of the Workers' Party as part of the proposal, and I hope that the Council of State may see that there is still time to get something reasonable on the eastern line.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e2142	The representative Stein Erik Lauvås has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e2147	This document 8 is very distinct and should perhaps be examined. There's a lot of big investments and west line expansions between Moss and Sarpsborg, which will lead to many closures over the next ten years. That means bus for trains and timber on car for track. Borregaard in Sarpsborg and Norske Skog Saugbrugs in Halden points to the eastern line of Eastfold Railway as an important piece to reduce transport costs and as an important complement to the main line of Eastfold Railway What is against the SV proposal is that the project is not part of the freight package that was adopted in connection with the National Transport Plan in 2017. The freight package has an economic framework of 18 billion. kr and is considered to be socially viable. 5.5 B.C.E. kr is set off in the first period. The main elements of the freight package are for the first time electrification of railway sections, such as the Hamar-Elverum-Kongswinger section on the Røros and Solørbahnen and the Hønefoss-Fosum section on the Randsfjordbahn, which will contribute to an environmentally friendly and more cost-effective freight transport. These routes are currently diesel driven. New rail links in Elverum, Kongsvinger and Hokksund will also facilitate better access to the European market through Kongswinger instead of driving around Oslo. Other important projects include the upgrade of the Alnabru terminal, the start of a new logistics hub in Trondheim and the modernisation of the freight terminal in Bergen, etc. The freight package also includes the construction of new, or extension of, existing crossing tracks. There is a need to increase the carrying capacity so that more or more freight trains can operate on the freight train sections. Greater volume means more efficient cargo and thus increased competitiveness of other freight transport. New crossing tracks shall be built, or they shall be extended, in such a way as to include all the important freight train sections. Several measures in the freight package, such as the construction of new crossing tracks, may also have a positive impact on passenger train transport. The Railway Directorate is responsible for assessing the timing and order of implementation of the measures. The work shall be done in close dialogue with Bane NOR. It is not the passenger base between Mysen and Sarpsborg that is the central point of this case, but the carriage of goods on a permanent basis such as the unloading of all trains between Gothenburg and Oslo on the west-line closure. But it has to be seen in a larger context.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e2166	The eastern line of the Eastfold Railway is a path that passes through the inner Eastfold, via Ashim, Mysen and Rakkestad, and has had a link directly to Halden. It was opened as early as 1882, and the track is operational from 2015 as the country's first new signalling system, ERTMS. The Committee has an ambition to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in line with Norway’s climate objectives, and electric rail is a very good tool to contribute to lower greenhouse gas emissions. And more measures are needed to move more goods from road to road. Both Borregaard in Sarpsborg and Norske Skog Saugbruges in Halden point to the eastern line of Eastfold Railway as important to reduce transport costs and as an important complement to the western line of Eastfold Railway. Freight transport is essential for the business community in Eastfold, and Norwegian Forest, together with other actors in the county and experts, has shown that an opening for east-line freight services all the way to Sarpsborg will be socially viable. The committee is, as I see it, as close as possible to an agreement in this matter. And although the majority still reject the proposal in the vote, I hope that this debate will make it clear that the department is taking over and getting ahead of this process, which was also the subject of the representative, Mr. Jagstad. Infrastructure should not pay for itself – it is the country’s offer to serve business interests and people. Modernising the eastern line of the Eastfold Railway in order to enable it to accept an increasing volume of traffic is within this very area. The track standard has been gradually improved through systematic maintenance over recent years. The eastern line currently has large passenger traffic on the Ski-Mysen route, and some departs from Rakkestad in the rush hour. It's a relief path, but it's clearly a solution that's clearly up today. Making use of it on a permanent basis requires decisions, and I hope you can get started as soon as possible. The Directorate-General for Railways has the overall responsibility for the development of the railway as part of the overall transport system today and forward. The needs of travellers and businesses need to be taken into account in the design of future passenger and freight services. It is very important to reopen this line, because today there are very few opportunities to travel collectively between inner and outer Eastfold, and the need has increased in recent times.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e2185	The vast majority of people here in the hall are speaking great about environmentally friendly transport, about the excellence of the railway in that context, and about the fact that more goods have to pass from car to rail. This is what all my colleagues say when I am at debate meetings, election meetings and here in the Chamber. Finally: More and more goods go on rubber wheels – smaller and smaller, proportionate, on rails. So more passengers and more goods on rail are wanted, but the infrastructure is often too poor – 100-year-old railways, many of them. Billion sums are needed to build new railways. There is an SV set up, but then there are some measures that are easier. Consider that there is a fairly upgraded, well maintained railway there – at the same time with the European signalling system installed, ERTMS, but then there is no passenger transport there. I'm talking about the eastern line of the Eastfold Railway on the Rakkestad-Sarpsborg route. Sometimes fruits can be picked sitting, even lying. That means they're very low-hanging. In this case, we have a situation like this. A joint committee is very positive about the proposal, about the modernisation of the Eastfold Railway in progress, a lot has been done, and they are talking about it being able to cope with an increasing volume of traffic. One also points out that the standard has been gradually improved through systematic maintenance over the years. The Directorate-General for Railways states that there is nothing technical in the way of driving trains on the completed route Rakkestad-Sarpsborg. I also think it was a little strange that the rapporteur spoke about the possible future wishes of these companies, the Borregaard and the Saugbruks Association, when it is a joint committee that refers to the wishes of Borregaard and the Saugbruks Association. It is a little strange that the rapporteur did just that. As far as I can understand, the measures necessary for passenger traffic on the route will be an extension of the capacity of the Sarpsborg station and the purchase of one or more trainsets on the route. There are many who are engaged in increasing traffic on this route, because there are few opportunities to travel collectively between inner and outer parts of Eastfold. Most people know that in the hall. It's probably enough to mention that we got a new hospital at Kalnes – there's a lot to say about that location for an environmentally conscious world, but I'm going to let that lie. I'll make some other arguments in the next article.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e2202	In this discussion, it's really not all the world to a great deal of distance between the opposition and the position. I feel that we share a desire to strengthen the activity on the Norwegian railway. Norwegian Railways are inside the largest investment wave since the Nordlandsbahn was completed in 1962. The investment, operation and maintenance process is ongoing and multiple trains are run. That is also what happens on the Eastfold. This proposal, which deals with the use of capacity on the eastern route of Eastfold, has many good intentions, which the government also shares. Nevertheless, here are some practical challenges and some real challenges. One is that it is possible to obtain commercially viable goods also on the east line. But then one must not be just because the company actually moves goods from road to path. One must have a train operator looking for an opportunity to get an offer, which one can do on the Eastfold Railway, as on all other paths. That's the possibility. I don't intend to prevent it, even though it might sound a little like that on the representative Nävra. So that's the possibility. A search is needed to get a runtime on the track. It can be done, and one may be assessed by the Directorate for Railways in order to be awarded it on commercial freight trains. In addition to that, when it comes to one of the other products, we have little train equipment, and at least we don't have enough train equipment to handle ERTMS, which is now the signal control system on the eastern line of the Eastfold Railway. It is possible to manage, and it facilitates the government through large-scale growth in the purchase of new train equipment, which is actually put into operation. But with a limited resource, which is currently also the case on the material side, there are several passengers on some other routes that would not have been offered if the train was a different place to run on the east line. So when there's a lot of these things, I think there's the potential to find even better solutions over time. But we have to invest in more material and gradually strengthen supply in line with where there is the highest demand, simply because it is a good idea for most people to travel collectively – which I experience is the intention of the representative proposal. I therefore believe that this is a work that we must also follow up in the coming years, and the Directorate-General for Railways has warned that they will also look at the capacity utilisation on the eastern line in a report that they will present during 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e2215	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e2220	I also reacted a little to what the rapporteur said about the need for timber transport to the wood processing industry in Eastfold, for the feedback both on the committee missions, as he himself mentioned, and the correspondence we have received, show that the need is most present. In the correspondence we have had between the Committee and the Ministry of Transport, the Minister of Transport specifically mentions the woodworking industry in Eastfold, which wants to use the eastern line for freight traffic. Norwegian Forest Saugbruges in Halden has at least been very eager about this, and it is very expensive for them that they now have to drive trains from Norway via Kongsvinger and through Sweden to Halden. My question to the Minister for Transport is: what kind of dialogue has he had with the three-processing industry in Eastfold, for example. Norwegian Forest in Halden, about the situation that has arisen?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e2228	Basically, I haven't had a dialogue with the woodworking industry about it at this point in time. But the state councils have our forest ministers once in a while, and then I talk a lot to the industry also on this topic. Now, the thing is, anyway, it's not the Department of Transportation, as it used to be, that grants supply. It is the Directorate of Railways that does that, and now I have also said from here that if a search is on-board, if one is an operator looking for train paths, the Directorate of Railways will evaluate the application. It's about making use of the capacity, which means that the door is initially open, but one must have an operator who is willing to operate the supply on a commercial basis. We have done a lot to strengthen the basis for commercial operations, for example: in the freight transmission system associated with the revised national budget, which can reduce the burden on operators who are now able to move goods from road to road.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e2241	With the organisational chart we have on the railway now, it is not difficult to find anyone else to take responsibility. The Minister can put the responsibility on the Directorate of Railways, who can certainly put it on someone else, but no matter how a person turns around and turns around, this is a political question. The Minister for Agriculture is responsible for forestry policy, the Minister for Enterprise Policy, the Minister for Transport. For the three-processing industry, which is such an important industry in the East, which is an industry that is said to be heavily invested in the coming years, and which in many ways is part of the green future, the government must have a policy to ensure efficient transport solutions. Borregaard and Norske Skog Saugbruks point out to us that they are concerned about how this is going to happen in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e2246	I have not tried to shift the responsibility away from me. I feel that I am taking responsibility. But one must have an operator searching for runtime. That's the way it was when the Workers' Party ran. The difference is who else is searching for, and who is awarding it. That's a smaller problem. I'm busy having a forest industry that has growth potential in the future. For this reason, a massive effort has been made in the development of forest roads, and criticism from the opposition. For this reason, we have implemented a bottleneck scheme in this year's budget, which will remove bottlenecks in the road network and make the timber cars come out completely. We have put in place a number of schemes to improve the supply for those who are harvesters and further processing in the Norwegian forest industry. There is also one reason why Norwegian forestry is doing well. The cut-off goes up, wages are improved, and I am absolutely sure that we will also be able to take new quantum leaps in the years to come – thank you very much for this government’s exemplary effort.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e2253	I get to try again – and then I have taken inward the advice I received from the state council: that I must remove wool before I eat the sheep! I have listened to the statements of the Council of State. It is necessary – and very expensive – to build new lines, we all agree on that. And for that reason, it's very important to take advantage of the lines that already exist, and I guess we'll agree on that. The eastern line of the Eastfold Railway is such an example. There is already a well maintained railway line almost ready for use. I have listened to the Council of State when he said that there are some challenges, and that's a nice thing: it's a challenge because it's a modern system with ERTMS. A little like a follow-up to Sverre Myrli's question: Will the Council take an initiative towards the Directorate-General for Railways, so that the eastern line of the Eastfold Railway can be used for permanent staff and freight traffic as quickly as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e2264	I would like to be able to answer yes to the last question, but if we are going to achieve a sustainable development in passenger transport, it is probably necessary that we first strengthen the capacity where there is the greatest need and demand, simply to get more people to choose collective travel by Norwegian railway. And as long as we still lack some material to get it into – one of it is in order and will be delivered – and as long as we still have a lot of investment needs ahead of us, it is necessary to take the adequate rest about it. For example, we see that there is probably also a need for some investment on the infrastructure side in terms of the provision of passenger transport services. If I had been in opposition, I would have experienced this as if I were trying to meet the opposition, in terms of both what is possible on freight, and what is possible in the future on passenger transport, while at the same time taking the remaining ones on the capacity challenges. It takes some time to recover investment deficits from the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e2271	As a little follow-up to it: I think we both agree that there is a lot of will, also in this room, to get solutions as soon as possible. How does the Council of State interpret the comments made by the majority in the case? Are they of such a nature that it should be speedy, despite the government's response?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e2276	The answer to that is yes, I read it from the comments and settings from the majority. Even if it wasn't, the government would be working on strengthening supply, as we've done on a lot of distances in the last few years.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e2281	I think it is very pleasant that the Council of State says that he will meet the opposition, or what an almost collective committee says in its comments, in meeting. But what I also record is that the Council of State is incredibly passive in the sense that he has to wait for it to be commercially profitable, that it is an operator that shows interest and that has to apply. That means that if you have ambitions, if it's a government council of ambitions, if there's a government of ambition that wants something about Norwegian infrastructure, then you have to sit and wait for something to happen. I think it's a very passive attitude from the Council of State. And does the Council of State see that he sometimes has to take action to get a process going before such applications come?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e2286	It is fantastic that SV is ambitious on behalf of Norwegian Railways when they are in opposition. It's a shame they don't show the same enthusiasm when they're in position. So we're in the biggest investment wave on the Norwegian railway since 1962, as I was in my previous post. Massive investments are being made both in intercity, in operation and in maintenance, in improvement measures to keep up the frequency, in new train equipment, in several scheduled departures — a series of investments taking place in Norwegian railways by day. But I accept that it is easier for SV to prioritize when they are opposition, than when they were in position. What is the case is that we are not yet sufficiently material. In the case of goods, if there are actors who believe that it is commercially viable – as all other freight transport services must be – they have the opportunity to apply for the time allocated to them. It shows that sometimes it's a trick, if you're busy moving goods and people over on the train, that we're actually strengthening the supply where there's the highest demand. [[President clubs]] [[President clubs again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e2293	The President recalls that speaking time also applies to state councils.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e2299	But can the Council of State agree that this is a relatively low-hanging fruit that it costs relatively little to pick, I get to say – so that you could get traffic on a relatively modern, adjusted path for a relatively reasonable money compared to many of the other investments we're talking about here? I would also like to mention, in brackets, – if the Council of State will remember the question for a little while – that SV has been a railway party all along. I'm going to think that almost as long as the Council of State remembers it, we've been a front figure for Norwegian railway – a front party. If the Council of State remembers the question, I would appreciate an answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e2304	I'll try to be short in my answer now, so I'll keep speaking time in any case. I acknowledge that SV has been ambitious on behalf of Norwegian Railways, except for eight years when they were in position. Then they did not deliver the necessary bet. It's the one. The second, to the question from the representative Nävra: Yes, this may be one of the areas where it is possible to get better supply without too much investment. That's why I'm opening up to it, too. One only has to follow the exact same priority discussion as in any other offer. If the state is going to buy supplies, we're going to have to buy it where there's demand, so that we get to carry the most possible by train. It dampens the need to choose the passenger car, and it dampens the greenhouse gas emissions – things for which the representative Nävra is normal. In the case of freight transport, an operator must be willing to run on a commercial basis. But one can, for example, if one thinks it is necessary, search for the freight transfer system that we have now established, in order to help make the offer profitable.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e2313	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e2320	The eastern line of the Eastfold Railway lies almost unused from Mysen to Sarpsborg with good and up-to-date infrastructure. At the same time, we know that Østfold is struggling to have good cross-links between the north and the south of the county. It won't change itself if the county from next year is called the Viking. Since 2002, passenger trains have not been run throughout between the Mysen in the inner Eastfold and Sarpsborg in the lower Glomma region, despite Sarpsborg being the county capital, the county hospital is located here and there is a node for both the east and west lines on the Eastfold Railway. The Government Parties state in their notes that the trains ‘which have previously frequented the route have been deployed elsewhere’. It makes me wonder, because that's not how many trains are constant. The council said that more trains are running now than before. Where did the trains that were previously driven on the Eastfold Railway become? I guess it's doubtful whether that material goes well 20 years later, because it was relatively discontinued at the time. So there's a distance that's not in use despite going through a region with a lot of commuting and great potential for both freight and passenger transport. The distance could also be an excellent relief for a highly laden western line. We often talk about the green shift. With the green shift, we believe that it should be converted from the petroleum-based industry to the renewable industry. In Eastfold, two locomotives are located, to use the railway language, the three-distribution companies Saugbrugs in Halden and Borregaard in Sarpsborg, each using 1 million. m 3 each year, 365 days per year. Much of their expenditure is related to logistics and transport. Both have expressed a desire to carry more timber on the track, but they experience the instability on the left line as unsustainable. This means that, at times, the transport of timber ends for longer periods, and the reversion of Sweden on the road is the option. At the same time, then, the government parties have literally sat in the quiet wagons by refusing to help reopen the eastern line through political initiative. One may well owe it to the market when one has created the situation of having given up control. I also notice that the government parties, including the Left, believe that there is no market basis for keeping the traffic going. What market studies is this based on, and what has been done to create a market? That's a strange attitude. It is rare for us to hear the same argument when it comes to building and maintaining roads. Here the infrastructure is in place, it's about putting the possibilities into use. It is good value creation both for Eastfold and for the rest of society, for passengers and for business.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e2338	This is a very important matter for people at home in Eastfold. It's both about the freedom to travel and about connecting inner and outer Eastern folds. It's about transport for important industries in our state, and it's about building climate-friendly transport for the future. I probably didn't expect this government to give priority to green transport in Eastfold like that over the table – they haven't exactly had the habit of doing that – because with this government we are largely left with postponements of railway development in Eastfold. But I expected the government parties to be a little bit more ‘on’ and e.g. I said that opening up traffic on this line is something you can get back to, for example. in the context of the revision of the national transport plan. What I hear when I sit here is that the government parties meet us, but when you read the setting, it is quite clear that the government parties are behind – they indicate that there is no market basis for opening up the line for passenger traffic, among other things. But that excuse just doesn't last. First, the traffic base calculations are not very up-to-date, and the more important it is that we have to think ahead. After all, we need to cut transport emissions drastically in the future if we are to be able to solve this climate crisis. Then we must also have climate-friendly alternatives, so that people have the freedom to travel in the future – also in Eastfold. It is of social interest to open this line beyond the market base. That's how we're going to think about infrastructure development in this country. It is of interest both to ordinary people in Eastfold – who today do not have a single chance to travel collectively between the two parts of the county – and to the business community in Eastfold, as we have heard. The woodworking industry employs thousands of people in the green industry in my state. But 20 pst. the costs of this industry are related to transport. Therefore, the industry already points to moving more goods on rails and to use the eastern line all the way to Sarpsborg, being able to connect it as one of the most important measures to strengthen the industry in Eastfold. Both from Saugbruks’ side and from Borregaard’s side in Sarpsborg, they have pointed out that this is socially profitable. But then we need politicians who take this further, who see what is necessary to make this transport make sense both to these actors and to society else. The government parties do not do that in this setting, but SV promises that we will follow the case further – to get green transport throughout Eastfold.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e2353	It was a very good post from the last speaker. He must belong to a good party, I think! I want to start with the commercial thinking of the Council of State. He showed special attention to goods. And that's the way it works. Markets are thought of without politicians intervening in time. It's just as far as it goes for the transporters. Fortunately, the government has put a little patch on the wound for the industry with its 64 million. kr in the RNB. That's good. They've met us a little bit, but we know it's too little. The industry's claim was about 200 million. kr. It would have helped; then it might have gone around for them for a while at least. Well – that was the case now. What's interesting to think about is, what do we want with social development? What do we want? One thing is the climate perspective, which is absolutely essential if we are to grasp. Those were important arguments from the last speakers. The second is, of course, what we want with infrastructure and business development, housing, etc. Once again, the important infrastructure creates settlement, creating service development in cities. It's not always the way to look at a passenger base that you're always referring to. You could have had an infrastructure first, and then the other one came later. The railroad's right here. There's little investment we're talking about, and then it's a sequence. We see very often that this is not taken into account, but we've seen some places where this has happened, that it's been a bud shooting that's quite amazing. We've seen it when brave politicians, for example. The urban railway in Bergen – we see how the development has been around the city railway. It should not surprise me at all about the opening of passenger traffic and the possibility of goods on the route we are talking about here would give some of the same developments. I think one is far too passive by using the status quo situation of the passenger base, as it is right at the moment, as a basis for further decision. I think that's gross. I think you – point one – have to think about the environment. Two are industrial development, housing, the common labour market, etc. Then you also have to take the initiative long before you see that there is a good store here. You have to fix things in advance. That's the order I've often asked for here in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e2368	I'm asking the SVs to sharpen their ears, because I'm going to bring a case information. Freight transport in Norway was liberalised in 2007 by the previous government. There was nothing this government needed to invent. It was the taimet and arranged when we joined. Rakkestad is one of the country's largest agricultural municipalities. I don't see any subway in Rack City. I don't imagine any major node development on the big, beautiful earths in Rack City. There were trains between Sarpsborg and Rakkestad, but it was laid down because of the passenger base. The eastern line, which goes from Ski to Mysen and on to Rakkestad, has a large passenger base. That's where the eastern line traffic base is. We cannot say that now we are going to save the world in Rakkestad, that it is the measure that is going to save Norway's climate action and make our climate accounts go up. You have to bet there people live. We have to make sure we have a rail offer in and out of our big cities, and then we have to bet that we have good transport across, between the big cities. The Council of State says that if some carriers want to start traffic on the east line between Sarpsborg and Oslo via Rakkestad and Mysen, they would have to do so, but on the same basis as the previous government did — the commercial. In the long term, I don't think when the Folloban is opened and Moss is finished, that the people of Sarpsborg will be sitting on a train via the Witch. They want to take advantage of the traffic advantage of running through the Follo tunnel. They save time. They want to exploit the transport capacity we get through Moss. It is completely wrong to say that nothing is happening in Eastfold. The largest railway projects in this country are in Eastfold and Akershus on the Follo side. My opinion is that this case cannot be inflated to international dimensions. It's a practical question for those who transport timber, and they can use the track today. So I have a point that I think is important. After all, when the railway is shut down many times on the west line, you may occasionally be able to set up some passenger traffic that goes that way. Today, the Gothenburg train stops in Råde. From there, there's a train bus. Maybe it's more rational than going through the whey.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e2381	I must first say that it is fantastic for the case-rapporteur to have the representative Igstad to explain in clear terms about the state of things, and not least about what it looks like in the area around Rakkestad. I have never been there, but all of us sitting on the Transport Committee were on tour with the Directorate of Railways. The railway directorate told a lot about the practical adaptation that had to be done, as the Council of State also had to do. ERTMS must be installed in the locomotives which may be required to run goods. It has a cost. This may be why they have not offered or asked to drive – I do not know. But it's clear that there are some challenges. What was quite clear about passenger trains was that there is no capacity at Sarpsborg station as it is today. We need to examine whether this is the most socio-economic project to continue, because the traffic base has been too low. It may be, and we get hope, as I wish, that both freight and passenger traffic are increasing in that area, that we are being relieved of the use of cars. That's what must be the goal of opening up this line again, but then there must be people who are willing to take the train on that route. Today, other sections have several passengers. There's volume we're talking about when we're thinking about social economy and how we're going to prioritize.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e2390	The representative Arne Nävra has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e2395	It was a little difficult not to take the last minute now, after the representative I used to post. Of course, there is no urban path through the inner east fold, nor should there be any urban development along that railway. But I'm recording that the path has an end point in a city that can evolve, of course it's like this, and it's also a place at the other end of the distance we're talking about, of course I know that. Nor do I need any particular adult training to see who was responsible for the railway package we are talking about, as goods were kind of exposed to competition on the railway – I know it very well. What I can stand for is, however, that we should have had a long-term support for goods on the railway, which should be at least 200 million. NOK for the shipping companies to make it go around. We have proposed that several times, and it has been voted down by the government parties. So we have to take the grips we can, and this was an attempt at it, for a pretty cheap money.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e2400	I hear the Council of State and others from the government side here lifting a lot of problems. It's a lot of trouble, it's not that easy, it's not part of a freight package, it's not a market mechanism that's good enough that you've seen, and here it's a lot of that some people have to apply for some drive offers that the department isn't going to go into, but that the directorate is going to go into. So here's a lot. Then I'm a little surprised when Rakkestad, in the middle of Eastfold, gets such a central place in the debate, because this isn't really about Rakkestad at all, I can inform the representative, Mr. Jagstad. We can fully agree that some urban railway in Rakkestad will not – we do not believe that either. But that Rackstad in many ways is a node, I think maybe you could be with and discuss it in different ways. That the scarpings may not want to get on a train to run over the east line, because they want to run the Follo tunnel, I stumbled a little over, for the last time I've been told – I would like it corrected by e.g. The State Council, if it is wrong, is that the east line should also use the Follo tunnel. If there are changes to that, I would like it to be clarified and clarified, because it is a very important matter. I am not going to rattle anything over the posts of Igstad regarding Rackstad etc., but I have to say that I notice that there is no emphasis on business interests in this. There have been two large, heavy enterprises in Eastfold, which depend on a reasonable transport of their raw material, which is timber. Why couldn't you then focus on the freight side and say that you can go into parts of the proposal? Because in the proposal behind the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV, it is very clear that the eastern line should be able to be operated by passenger trains and freight trains. If you have so many problems with the market in people and if you don't want to see Rakkestad, you might be able to focus on saying that you should help the business community in Eastfold and make sure that there is goods on this path. I think it would have been very good if the government parties and the council could think about one more time. Perhaps they could go along with this proposal that lies here, however, because, as I said, it is a very good proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e2415	Once the case's rapporteur, Mr Gunnes, comes up here and thanks the representative Igstad for his insight into the matter, there is reason to be concerned about this committee's consideration of this matter. Here, it appears in many ways that the blind is led by the deaf – or was the opposite – because there is a lot to deal with here. Now it is also very good to say about the municipality of Rakkestad. It's a beautiful place. There are a number of people who want to travel around, including Sarpsborg – which I would also like to point out is a beautiful place – and with public transport, even if it is not possible today. But it's not about Rakkestad. This is about two major transport hubs, for business and not least for the Eastfold labour market. We have a city at one end, Sarpsborg, which is connected on the west line, and which has an infrastructure to connect also the outer part of the county with the inner part of the county. That railway is really nice, it can be used, but it doesn't. That's what it's all about, not Rakkestad's inhabitants, although they too will be able to benefit from this offer. Then I have to get hold of another thing. To take the goods part of this, it turns out that now we can only borrow back from the people and the government, and then the woodworking industry in Eastfold can search with an operator to get the goods in place between the interior and the outer part of the county. But then the representative Gunnes himself here in his last post admits that that's not just what's going on. No, the Railway Directorate itself says that changes need to be made to the signalling system in order for this path to be used all the way to freight transport. That's why I have to ask the Council of State, now that I see him going to have posts after me, about clarity: is that so, since the Council of State says that we will meet you, that the Council of State, for example. in connection with the next revision of the transport plan will look into this matter and take seriously an industry that employs thousands of people? They point out that this is the most important measure; if we are to be able to assert ourselves in international competition, we must reduce the cost of transport. Is the Council of State taking this seriously? It deserves both this industry and all the people who need a better route between the two parts of the county, to get answers from this council, and not just customs about the municipality of Rakkestad.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e2424	It's almost only I who haven't mentioned a municipality in Eastfold, and I'm not going to start with it now either. But it's good to clear a couple of the statements that are here. The opposition's proposal, as I have to read the representative Nävra, is to put in place an aid scheme of 200 million. kr, although we know that there is no basis for that. The maximum legal support is provided just above 90 million. kr, and the government has said that we want to support it. Thus, the opposition's actions are directly illegal as a result of the opposition parties' own decisions in 2007, when they were put in government. It's good to remember that the cow has our calves, and this is a direct consequence of the decisions that the opposition party has taken, and that now also sees the consequences. It is fully possible to obtain commercially viable goods also on the outside, under that leadership. But what's going on here is that there's going to be another set of rules there than for all of the other sections, and that's not going to work. If one is to provide support for the commercial profitability of this transport in order to provide it, it must take place within the scheme established in the revised national budget, which is then limited to a certain amount. It shows, to the extent that the main problem of the opposition, which tries to make it a greater political discord than it really is, that the measures which one itself points to from the opposition's side do not meet with the legal basis that the opposition party itself has ensured that we do, back to 2007. It shows that this is more complex and therefore needs more work. Therefore, we constantly assess how we can improve our supply. In the transport of goods, there is very little commercial activity on a commercial basis in passenger transport. But it is still such that we should increase the supply only where there is a basis for many passengers to train well. That's what we've got going on – a hundred more train departures in and out of Oslo every day now than it was in 2013, a massive reinforcement of the train supply. And that job goes on. Which kind of priorities come in the next national transport plan, I would like to be able to advance, but I don't intend to. At the moment, the greatest involvement of the regionally elected level that has ever been done through an NTP process is taking place. What kind of priorities come out of it will be shown the Size when they are done. But the Stortinget can be absolutely certain that the government will do what we can both to strengthen the basis for commercial rail freight and – not least – to continue to strengthen passenger services for all those people who choose to use the train as an important part of their travel schedule.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e2439	Never has Rakkestad ever been mentioned more times in a big debate than today. I'll think the razors are happy with it and quite proud as well. Mr Gunnes said he had never been to Rakkestad. Then he should take a walk. He as an RBK supporter should know that one of the really good RBK players in season after season in Rosenborg’s golden age – ten to twelve seasons – was just from Rakkestad. Then Gunne can think about who I'm going to be. I stand with a election poster from Viken Left – The Viking Left has started the election campaign. It reads as follows: Eastern line 2019 on the Left gets what we want. 10 to 15 minutes shorter travel time to Oslo from inner Eastfold. Reopening of the route from Rakkestad to Sarpsborg. Buses directly to the hospital at Kalnes from Sarpsborg station when it opens. Yeah, the last one might have been a little unlucky. What do I know what the Viking Left thinks about that? But at least they're quite clear that the eastern line is going to be reopened between Rakkestad and Sarpsborg. It's possible the Fold Left has done this without talking to the Left on the Storing and the Left on the Government. I guess a lot might suggest that when we've heard the posts here today. But there's probably impatience also in several parties, to say it in a nice way. I think first and foremost the eastern line has a role in freight traffic, and also passenger traffic. But freight traffic is very central – and I would like to underline it once more – as a very important route on the axis between Oslo and Gothenburg, Sweden. So it's always been like that if, for example. are settings, things that happen on the left line, east line has been used. At the moment it is a little complicated, because the ERTMS installed there, and there are very few freight trains that have it. But as it is also installed in the freight trains, we have to return to the arrangement where the eastern line and the western line complement each other. This summer, for example, railway traffic on the Eastfold Railway set for six weeks. It's probably because of the work on the Folloban, and it's because of the great work that's going on in Moss, and other things, I think, on the Eastfold Railway. Had this been earlier, one had then used the eastern line and drove the trains on the east line, instead of setting, as one does today. So yes, the Eastern Line has a future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e2471	First of all, I have to answer the quiz! What I'm happy about is that Bent Skammelsrud has lived in Trondheim, after having had an amazing career in Rosenborg. We appreciated him very much, and we still do. So I guess it should be okay. The left clearly wants more rail tracks to be filled with trains. Then it actually has to be a basis for that. We've increased to 76 million passengers, I think that's what you're doing now, this year. It has increased quite significantly in both percent and millions in recent years, and the Left is quite clear that we want to put in the new train sets and also the new freight forwarders on the routes where there is the most need. That's the big thing, to prioritize according to it. We can't start making a line that doesn't have a socio-economic gain over another. That's the priority we're talking about. The left has a strong wish that the eastern line can be open soon for both freight and passengers. I think it will be, but it has to go its way in terms of priorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e2478	Then Rakkestad is significantly uplifted and probably enough, because several have not asked for the floor for case no. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e2494	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e2503	As rapporteur, I would like to start by thanking the Committee for a good cooperation on this proposal for a representative. The Committee notes the increasing digitalisation in society, which means that citizens and businesses must have stable and good access to the Internet. Access to the Internet is a feature of democracy and many important societal functions. Norway currently has very good mobile and broadband coverage. According to the latest 2018 coverage survey, carried out on behalf of the National Communications Authority, has nearly 100 pst. of households, a basic broadband offer in the form of either fixed or mobile broadband. Four out of five households offer high-speed broadband, and mobile broadband coverage is now 99 pst. of the households and were on the other side of 80 pst. of the land area by the first half of 2018. The Committee is aware that until a few years ago, the copper network has had its core network for fixed and broadband. As part of the modernisation of the fixed network, Telenor has warned that the copper network will be phased out completely before the end of 2022. This is a major technology shift, which has implications for telephone and broadband provision. There is one suggestion in the case, from the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV, but I would like to do further good for the Right's recommendation on the matter. Broadband policy is market-based and technology-neutral. He has been for decades, even under the red-green government. The main role of the authorities in the sector is to create good framework conditions, so that the ecosystem continues to invest in all parts of the country. It's the commercial players who essentially decide where to build it. There is freedom of establishment, and providers also have the opportunity to close broadband provision if they do not request it financially, with the notification deadlines provided for by the law. This also applies to Telenor. In addition to the private investment from market players, the state is providing funds to which the market does not extend. In the case of phase-out of the copper network and the concerns about stopping maintenance, Right refers to letters from the Council of State stating that Telenor will only stop maintaining the copper network for customers with better technology either through fibre or 4G coverage. Customers who have no copper line option will get the line fixed if there are errors. Right will therefore not support the proposal of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV to require Telenor to maintain and maintain the copper network in areas that do not have an alternative broadband connection.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e2522	The representative proposal for treatment today, from the Red Party, the Centre Party and the Workers' Party, is an immediate response to a message from Telenor to their customers connected to the copper network. SV should also have been on the proposal, but by an incursion they were not contacted, which is regrettable, because they agree entirely with the other three of us. The message alarmed many of the subscribers, when a notification that one would lose the network connection if there were errors on the lines. During the time that has elapsed since the proposal was submitted, there have been signs indicating that maintenance of the copper network will nevertheless be maintained where there are no alternatives to that network. However, the working party is concerned that the matter is now being dealt with in Stortinget, and has therefore made a proposal together with the SV and the Senterpartie where we are asked by the government to oblige Telenor to maintain and maintain the copper network in those areas that do not have alternative broadband connections. We want the government and the Stortinget to commit themselves to the institution that has the overall responsibility in the matter. It may not be possible for a commercial, public-owned company to refrain from providing the services to be provided solely for economic reasons. We are very pleased that the Council of State in its answer to our written question of 21 May refers to Telenor's signals that the intention of the present proposal will be respected. This was also indicated in an answer to a question-time question from the undersigned to the Council of State of Astrup on 10 April this year. In the reply, the Minister said, inter alia: indoor 4G coverage is the only satisfactory option. But we have not yet received a binding response from the Council of State. In the answer attached to the case, he refers to Telenor's statement, but there is no direct promise to follow it up from the department's side in the future. That is why we in the Workers' Party had hoped that the government parties could today be involved in the wording that is from the opposition. It's just a formalization of the indications we've received from the Council of State in the past. That is why we are disappointed with the proposal for a decision from the position. I am thus promoting the proposal in the matter of which we are part.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e2537	The representative Øystein Langholm Hansen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e2542	We are many who have received letters from Telenor saying that all maintenance of the copper network is to be terminated. For some subscribers, this means that the old mailbox again will be the only way to receive mail. Outside the living room window where I live, in the Velfjord, suddenly hung the copper wire and the hose. It had become detached from the poles, and the message was that this was not repaired. Luckily, it was so pressured when this proposal became known that Telenor was retreating. Telenor sent out both press releases and letters that they would continue to maintain the copper network if the customers did not have an alternative. The line outside the house was suspended again the day after the proposal was advanced in Stortinget. The majority of the government parties say that the government council is concerned with the interests of the customers who are affected, but I do not think it has really sunk in that only 49 pst. on average in spread-built areas in Norway, high-speed broadband is available. This is numbers from last year. I also know that State Council Dale tends to mention the new digging regulations when we talk about broadband. To the government council, Astrup's briefing, I want to tell you that in the districts, it's not the digging that tends to be the problem, it tends to be the funding. Contributions to broadband expansion have been relatively high priority given by the Right and the Advance Party of Government. It has certainly been a Christian People's Party that has managed to increase funding to 200 million. kr. That's $50 million. kr extra to broadband in the revised budget, but there is only half of what the Centre Party will use for broadband deployment. We cut off 500 million. kr in our budget. In 2018, copper lines were damaged and not repaired in several places. For many of them this was true, the option became mobile broadband, some places with poor and some lack of access. In addition, this offer became much more expensive — the increase was serious, and I hope that the Council of State will take it into consideration.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e2553	I understand very much that the representatives who have submitted this proposal were concerned when the first messages came from Telenor. It is clear that you could see that this suddenly became a much worse offer than a good number of people around the country had before. Then there was a correction – that was also mentioned by the representative of the Workers' Party – where Telenor clearly stated that it would be repaired. We also hear that where accidents have occurred, they have been repaired. Fiber-based broadband and copper networks are compared. I think that's like comparing apples and pears. There are completely different speeds required and offered through the fibre network. What you can compare to is the mobile broadband – the 4G system – as reported by Nkom at 99 pst. of households have today. It is a good network for most households in Norway. It's not good enough for business because they have large amounts of data and that it's 80 pst. land area with access to mobile broadband around the country today — on average. It's too bad. That is why the Left, together with the Christian People's Party – yes, it is clear – has fought through increased appropriations in the various budgets in recent years. Now in the revision, there's also an increase, so you're up to 250 million. kr. We have a clear goal that by 2020 it will be 90 pst. The left might have thought of continuing to work so that it got even better in the future. I see that there are several parties that make themselves visible through the notes, and that's very good and positive. For the future, we need to have a very good electronic connection, so that we can get even more efficient work and good information. But as I said, most households probably have 4G today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e2564	For Red, this is about two important principles. Firstly, it is about equal rights to infrastructure throughout the country. It's a public responsibility. It cannot be priced. Secondly, no one in our country is going to lose access to today's most used information and communication channel, which will lead to increased differences between cities and countries. Government parties have shown in practice, on a case-by-case basis, that, unfortunately, there should be a difference between people depending on where they live. We see that equivalent access to health services, such as safe food services, does not apply if you live in outlying areas, that mail and newspapers do not apply every day if you live far out in the country. In this case the government also shows that the best internet service is reserved for those who live in a place where it is commercially profitable to expand it. In practice, this means that equal access to fully necessary social services and democratic participation is not at the same level for those living in the districts. Everyone here should know that the Internet is an increasingly important part of our infrastructure. School students deliver the tasks digitally. Communication with medical offices, Nav and other service providers is increasingly digital. So equal access is a necessary prerequisite for democracy and for many important societal functions. When the government in the revised budget allocates 50 million. additional to broadband development in the districts, they provide us with a straight indication that Telenor’s warning of end-of-service maintenance of the copper network would have a negative impact on network access in the districts. This despite the fact that both the government and Telenor previously denied that this would have negative consequences. We see that 50 million. kr is not enough. In our alternative budget, we in Red are proposing to increase the contribution to broadband development by 200 million. kr, i.e. four times as much as the government now suggests. We are concerned that a break in the copper network before a new Internet connection is in place will mean that people are standing without adequate telephone and Internet connection for months and perhaps years. In our view, Telenor must therefore be required to repair the copper network until a new broadband connection is in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e2577	It is right to say, as the representative Langholm Hansen also emphasised, that this was an immediate response to the first messages from Telenor. It was just to be missing if we didn't respond. Then there were some explanations. We have to say that Telenor had to crawl a little bit to the cross – that's probably right to say. It's a Norwegian, popular expression that covers it, I think. Then you were in doubt: Should this proposal be drawn, or should you not? I was a little bit in doubt if we should be in it, but I think it is very good that we are in it, and that the proposal is there, so that in some way it is a guarantee that Telenor will follow up. That's how I've summed it up. It would also have been nice if more people in the hall, from the other parties, had been involved, so that we were able to maintain the copper network. What I wanted to relate some comments to is how the market forces work, especially because a very emerging state council, which is responsible for this area, is present here today. It is not that there are only very pig-grown strips that are not serviced for the development of broadband on market premises. So I live a few meters, I guess I have to say a few hundred meters, because it's probably two kilometers from the highway between Drammen and Oslo. I'm using copper wire, I don't get the opportunity to connect to high-speed broadband, fiber. The nearest hub is 500 meters away. We were eight subscribers who were willing to be with – 500 meters away – did not get it. Among the eight, there was an editor of a trade magazine, it was one who was an active film producer – signed – and then there were six others. It wasn't useful, it wasn't commercially interesting – and it was four years ago. Now we had the opportunity again. The excavator was there; it was to be dug other ditches; the E-works were in place. We could shut the cable down at the same time, there were lots of negotiations, divers, back and forth – not to mention, it says, we probably don't get to this now either, four years later. So this is how the market mechanisms work – they don't work well enough. We're talking about eight subscribers here. I have 4G, a little bit to and from, a little depending on where I am in the house – so I live on the Lierskogen, between Drammen and Oslo. So this is a much bigger problem than you might think. We're not talking here about just outer coastlines north. It's pretty close until the urban strike in the East. So I just hope the Council of State remembers this, that it shows that the market mechanisms aren't working out completely. Then we have it patched on the wound by giving grants, but it doesn't cover it either, and it takes a lot more to reach all of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e2590	I would like to start by thanking you for a good debate on an important topic that concerns many. I understand very much the concern of some residents and businesses when it was announced that Telenor would stop the error correction on the copper network. Norway currently has very good mobile and broadband coverage. According to the latest coverage study, nearly 100 pst. of households a basic broadband offer, in the form of either fixed or mobile broadband. Four out of five households offer high-speed broadband. The coverage for mobile broadband is now above 99 pst. of the households and were on the other side of 80 pst. of the land area by the first half of 2018. Broadband policy is market-based, and it is technology-neutral, as it has been for decades, even under the red-green government. The main role of authorities in the sector is to create good framework conditions so that the ecosystem continues to invest in all parts of the country. And there's a lot of investment in the Norwegian echo market. In 2018, investments amounted to approximately 9.4 billion. kr. There has been a very successful investment in broadband and mobile roll-out in Norway, thanks to the market approach of changing governments. Since 2013, we've gone from 63 pst. of the Norwegian population had access to 100 Mbps high-speed broadband, which has now increased to 82 pst. – and it will continue to increase. It is also important to stress, when it is pointed out that mobile broadband can have its weaknesses – and yes, it can – that the average speed of 4G is much higher than the average speed of broadband delivered over the copper network. It is worth including in this discussion. If you look at a country like Finland, you have chosen to connect people to mobile broadband rather than fiber, precisely because it offers a good deal to a lot of people. We choose to bet on both, and today we have the world's fastest 4G net. Then there are some places where market forces don't stretch, and there the state has to contribute funds. We have also greatly increased funding, and they are higher in 2019 than they have been in very many years. It is important to bear in mind that, based on experience from previous years, the public funds made available will provide four to five times as much invested funds, thanks to the spice layers of enterprises, county municipalities, municipalities and others. So they go far beyond that might look like. We have also changed the conditions for the use of grant funds, so that the counties can give priority to providing grants to areas directly affected by Telenor's planned copper network reorganisation. I believe we should be happy that Telenor has said that they are going to continue the error correction online, and there is therefore no need to adopt the proposal that is here.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e2609	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e2615	One still mentions the year 2013 and how much one has wagered in relation to the red-green government, but the development has gone with storm chalk, so it wouldn't surprise me much if it had at least been as good coverage under a red-green government as under a right government. 82 pst. there is a satisfactory link between households, but in the case of the postal law last week, the opposition promoted a proposal to draw up a plan of progress for the development that remains. It was tuned down by the position, as it tends to be. I wonder if there are any progress plans – and if there are no progress plans, what do you think about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e2624	First, it's saying that it's just 82 pst. which has satisfactory broadband coverage is fundamentally wrong. What the representative here says is that it's not satisfactory broadband coverage until everyone has 100 Mbps. I do not know what use the representative has at home, but I can at least tell you that with three children it is fully possible to cope with much less than 100 Mbit/s and still meet all the basic needs. The broadband we get over the copper grid is much slower than 100 Mbit/s. By and large, 4G coverage will provide a significantly better range than what you get via the copper lines, most of the places. And yes – we are going to build up in the rest of the country, of course we are. That is why we are just putting money into it via public budgets, and that is why we also increased the subsidy in the revised national budget by 50 million. kr. So there's a quarter of a billion to this in 2019.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e2633	Thanks for the answer. As is repeatedly mentioned, market-based expansion is the basis for most of the development of the nation. That's two sides of it. When the market expands fibre networks, it is also the market that governs who enters that fibre network. The undersigned has a network constructed by Lights. I have no alternatives other than Altibox because it is Lights that have developed the web. Does the Minister see that there are challenges in terms of monopoly in the network with market-based expansion?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e2642	Let me first grasp this with market-based expansion. There are other countries that have a different approach to this than us. Sweden is an example of where they have had much higher government grants. The interesting thing to see there is that the rate of expansion has not been greater than in Norway. They do not have better coverage in Sweden even though they have spent more public money. What happens when you spend more public money and get involved in areas where it is commercially profitable to build is that the commercial players wait to expand until they receive government grants for the expansion. We have received a very rapid expansion funded by the companies themselves because we have just concentrated public efforts on those areas where there is no basis for commercial expansion. So we're looking at the image we have of the copper web refurbishment, that there's going to be a need for extra effort. That's why we've also increased the grants in 2019, so it's going to be one billion. When it comes to the monopoly situation, I can't answer it, as my time went out.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e2653	Then I'll give the Minister the opportunity to answer that question, because I repeat the question. As he did not get the time, I asked him to answer now.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e2658	We are, of course, engaged in competition when it comes to fibre and mobile broadband. To take the last one first, we have facilitated competition between three mobile operators. We think that is good, because we see that in Norway we pay relatively much compared to other Nordic countries for the offers we receive. Fortunately, prices go down. This means that the fibre operators face real competition from mobile broadband, and that is positive. Then I must be allowed to come back to the representative with a detailed explanation of what I perceive is a very important issue, namely competition between the fibre suppliers themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e2665	Too many are the options for copper lines mobile broadband. There are many municipalities that have introduced tablet boards in their education. The center part is dedicated to digitisation, but lives a central one, can get a reasonably good network and free download for NOK 299 per month. That's about. 3 600 kroner a year, delivered by Telenor via cable. But if you have a switch to mobile broadband, it'll cost you, for example. in Sømna 799 kr per month, approx. 9 600 kroner per year, and then the limit is 400 GB per month. Does the Council agree that the three-course is an excessive price difference for network access within the same municipality and for young people attending the same school?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e2670	I'm concerned that if we're really going to realise the huge gains that lie in the digitisation of Norwegian society, people must have access to the Internet, they must have access to digital services. In that it is not only that you should have access, but also that you should have it at a price that is acceptable to carry. Therefore, I am pleased that we see that competition works – that we facilitate three competing companies in mobile broadband, so that prices are fortunately moving in the right direction. But we're not in goal, and it's important that we help maintain that competition, so that prices go down and the offer gets even better for even more people across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e2675	I do not feel that the Council of State answered the question. The council said he was happy for competition. My question was whether it is acceptable that one family would have to pay a three-fold price so that the kids could use the tablet at home to do homework and stuff, like another family in the same municipality that has access to broadband via Telenor via cable.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e2680	Now it is not the government that regulates the prices offered by operators in the market at municipal level, but I am of course concerned that the price differences should not be too large, and that everyone should have the opportunity to connect to the Internet, either via fibre or via mobile broadband, at a price that is possible to bear. That is precisely why we are committed to facilitating a competition that can bring prices down. We see that prices have started to go down, it's positive, we get more data for less money. So it's a good thing that you don't need very large amounts of data to do homework in school – fortunately – but there are other things that attract a lot of computing power, for example. streaming of television services.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e2687	I will not entirely leave the question of broadband coverage on market terms. I'm a representative of those who fall between two chairs – I don't live far out in the districts, and I don't live in an area where it's marketable interesting to develop fiber, so we can use myself as a case study. Then it's interesting to know what the council will recommend me to do. Should I just sit still and wait and see how many years it takes before I get offers of fiber – a satisfying internet, we get to say? It doesn't have to be 100 MB, but it's probably going to be if there's any fiber. Should I sit still and wait? And possibly in the course of it: when does the Council of State expect the whole country to be covered by state support, plus market-oriented activities?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e2695	Now I can't boast of living in scattered areas, but I have nevertheless had to deal with the same problem as the representative, namely that I had poor mobile coverage where I lived, and had to install a fixed phone. The solution for me was simply to change the mobile provider, and then I got good coverage. This could be the first tip from the Minister of Digitalisation to the representative on how to proceed. But from a joke to a serious one: it is clear that in many parts of the country — including in more central areas — there is poor mobile coverage and there is no satisfactory broadband development. That's why we need to continue our efforts to expand broadband across the country. The model we have chosen for now has produced good results, and I believe it will do so in the future. Telecoms are also committed to making satisfactory offers to their subscribers. For this reason, it is important to be able to report poor coverage in the areas where it is experienced, such as the United Kingdom. a few hundred meters from E18 between Oslo and Drammen.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e2704	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e2711	As one company said, ‘Wireless broadband and mobile coverage are more important to us than road’. ‘The good offer we have seen for the country as a whole is the result of this market-based and technology-neutral broadband policy’, writes the government parties in the case. That's wrong. In large parts of our country where the natural resources are, it has never been and will never be commercially profitable to expand, no matter how you create a good environment for the ecosystem. The efforts of the county councils over the last six years do not seem to have been made by the government. Much more public money is being used than the government puts on the table just to get the important infrastructure in place – despite over 1.3 billion. until regional development has been removed from the budget of the counties by that government. It was funds that were previously used for mobile and broadband coverage where it was not commercially profitable. For example, Trondelag uses far more than what they get in the broadband spot from the government, and the municipalities do the same. This is what makes eco-suppliers dare to bet and join a spice layer. In Trøndelag, there are now probably 48 000 broadband subscribers based on copper and one does not yet know how many of these have to have government grants in order to build a new solution. One does not make public services more efficient and efficient without a good infrastructure in which all citizens are involved. The county council has now been informed that the grant funds they receive will be used to provide broadband where there is copper today, and there is also an interpretation of the ESA Directive that provides a cost increase of 25 pst. It's important to replace the copper. That's good. One has to ensure that the inhabitants do not stand without anything, and therefore one has to make sure that one increases the contribution of the State to achieving the objectives of this important infrastructure.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e2724	I noticed that State Council Astrup thinks it is okay that those who are now going to switch to mobile broadband have to pay three times as much as those who can get networks via cable. We all have to notice this. The only government council that referred to was competition. Then the Council of State must have forgotten that we have areas where it is not commercially profitable to expand. The competition doesn't work. Over to something else. I have a cell phone, and when I talk in it at home in Velfjord, it's actually via the copper wire. I'm using the wifi speech. The map says that there is mobile coverage in the area, but there is a theoretical calculation and a theoretical coverage, because it is not possible to talk on that phone. I wonder what to do when the copper line is phased out. The map says it's coverage, that you can get mobile broadband, but in principle it doesn't work. How are enterprises in this area going to deliver the business task digitally? I have previously asked Dale about this, and he replied that it is possible to contact the nearest tax office and get a tax return and business assignment delivered to the tax office. But the Dale State Council cannot have taken into account that we recently had a rather large tax office deposit. The tax office in Brønnøysund is closed, in line with approx. 50 other tax offices, a few years ago. In the whole of Helgeland, there are only two tax offices left, and unfortunately, for many, the copper line is the only way to access the network. I fully agree that we should not sit and hesitate on this copper line when there are better solutions, but then there must be solutions that work in practice – not just on the coverage map – and it must be at prices that make those who live in such a way that they have to use mobile broadband, do not have to pay three times as much as those who have the opportunity to get network access via cable.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e2735	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox Case No. 13–37 concerns the second reading of legal cases, and the President will propose that cases be dealt with together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e3021	No one has asked to speak on the matter. 13–37.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e3033	The size is then ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e3042	A total of two proposals have been put forward during the debate, by Mr Sem-Jacobsen on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: «The government is asked to propose that all employers with more than 20 employees should explain the actual status of equality in the business and what they are doing to achieve the obligation of activity». Proposal No. 2 sounds: «The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to include age as a basis for discrimination in the first paragraph of Section 26 of the Equality and Discrimination Act as part of the employer’s obligation of activity.» The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e3415	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e3425	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e3689	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e3699	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e3836	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e3846	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e3855	A total of 17 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-10, from Trond Giske on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 11 and 12, from Trond Giske on behalf of the Workers' Party the proposals No 13 and 14, from Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 15, from Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen on behalf of the Center Party the proposals No 16 and 17, from Freddy André Supreme Court on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 16 and 17 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to set up an expert committee to assess the non-editor-driven social media and measures to improve the opinion climate.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate further and come back to the Storting with a case on the earmarked tax model for funding the NRC, with increased social progress, increased independence and greater predictability, for example through the creation of a fund.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e3897	There is a vote on proposal No. 15 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for different models of time-limited exemption from the employer’s fee for the media industry.’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e3912	There is a vote on proposal No. 13, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to initiate a dialogue with non-editor-driven social media to improve the opinion climate, moderate the heat, threats and harmful content, as well as to ensure transparency around the moderation that is taking place.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e3929	There is a vote on proposal No. 11th from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit a new and more thorough media communication, with a robust review of overall objectives, key trends and trends, and a long-term strategy for a strong, good and diverse media sector and an informed and participating population.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e3946	There is a vote on proposal No. 12 from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government requests a review of the list of major events of national importance to be open to the public to see if media developments indicate that several such events, such as the world cup in skis, should be included in this list.’ The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e3964	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-10, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to strengthen international work, including towards the EU, against the dissemination of copyrighted works on the Internet without authorisation and any remuneration.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to step up its efforts to ensure that global media actors pay taxes and taxes in the countries in which they operate.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide an annual report to the Stortinget on the conditions of freedom of the press in Norway.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to take action to ensure greater independence and economic predictability and to return to the Storting in an appropriate manner.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider adding additional tasks related to collection or document management to Mo i Rana, and to return to Stortinget on the matter in an appropriate manner.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that production aid is not redistributed from newspapers which are currently receiving the bulk of production aid in favour of the small local authorities, but that a separate support scheme is established for the small local authorities.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget on how local radio and local TV can strengthen production and innovation support.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate and propose taxing the value creation in Norway from multinational companies with digital earnings platforms, such as Google, following inspiration from the United Kingdom, France and Spain, to balance the competitive relationships between Norwegian media houses and services such as Google in the advertising market.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to propose a better and more forward-looking VAT exemption regime for electronic journals in the context of the 2020 State Budget.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asking for various measures to be included in the agencies’ ‘toolbox’ to strengthen the media industry in response to future challenges’. The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e4039	Alternatively, between the setting and proposal No. 14, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the extension of current FM local radio concessions by 2031, corresponding to the expiry time of local radio digital concessions.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e4229	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e4239	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e4255	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e4271	In the course of the debate, two motions have been put forward, tabled by Mrs Lagen Waogslid on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the Grand Duchy’s judicial compensation scheme is better known and better informed as a compensation scheme.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to the Storting with a comprehensive review of the judicial compensation scheme, which specifically looks at which groups are not covered by the scheme and assess how they should be incorporated or covered by other schemes.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e4311	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Lene Vågslid on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposal No 3, by Geir Inge Lien on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 4, from Petter Eide on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with proposals to clarify how Norwegian legislation on arms exports is to be practised in order to avoid violations of international law and humanitarian law.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e4340	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a sample to be set up to ensure that the Penal Code better protects prisoners from inhuman treatment and the right to necessary health care.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to come to Stortinget with an overall presentation of how the recommendations made in the NIM Annual Report 2018 are followed up.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e4364	There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to draw up an action plan against violence and abuse with a view in particular to the Sami community.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal. The Workers' Party has notified subsidiary aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e4403	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e4432	During the debate, Mr Eide put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to come to Stortinget with an annual report on arms permits granted to both borrowed and borrowed personnel as a result of the agreement of 4 September 2018 between Norway and Sweden on mutual assistance between police special intervention units in emergency situations.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e4472	Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e4488	During the debate, Stein Erik Lauvås put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to facilitate the movement of the entire eastern line of the Eastfold Railway by passenger trains and freight trains and to inform the Stortinget accordingly.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e4518	During the debate, Øystein Langholm Hansen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked by the Government to require Telenor to maintain and maintain the copper network in those areas where there is no alternative broadband connection’.» Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-11.ana.ud85e4548	Case No. 13–37 are the second time legal proceedings and concern legislative acts 60 to 84. There are no comments. Thus, the law of the Storting has been passed on the second time and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
