ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-28.ana.ud345e54	Two applications for leave are made from the Workers' Group: for the representative of Eirik Sivertsen from 2 December to 4 December to attend meetings of the Antarctic Parliamentary Assembly in London, for the representative of Kari Henriksen from 3 December to 6 December to attend meetings of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in the Parliamentary Assembly of Europe in Bratislava. On a proposal from the President, it was decided: Applications shall be dealt with promptly and be accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the period of leave as follows: For Western Agder: Odd Omland 3.–6. December For the county of Nordland: Kjell-Idar Juvik 3.–4. December
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-28.ana.ud345e94	The representative of Terje Aasland will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-28.ana.ud345e99	I am delighted, on behalf of the representatives of Geir Pollestad, Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes and myself, to present a proposal to ensure Norwegian wage and working conditions in Norwegian waters and on Norwegian base.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-28.ana.ud345e104	The representative, Mr Pollestad, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-28.ana.ud345e109	On behalf of the representatives of Sigbjørn Gülsvik, Sandra Borch, Ole André Myhrvold, Per Olaf Lundtägen and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal on ownership and taxation of wind power in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-28.ana.ud345e114	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-28.ana.ud345e132	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-28.ana.ud345e148	In the configuration, the Presidency makes proposals for new leaders and two other members of the responsibilities committee of the Grand Duchy. The Liability Commission is an independent special body of five members that the Storting may ask to initiate an investigation to ascertain whether there is a basis for making constitutional liability applicable to a national court. Since the Commission was created in 2007, he has not got any cases to deal with, but is equally fully an important readiness for the case that there should be a case there from Stortinget. Three of the members of the responsibilities committee are on election this year. These are the leaders of the selection, Professor Dr.juris Erling J. Husbø, and the members lawyer Svein Holden and department leader Gunn Karin Gjul. The two non-elected members are former police investigators Kristen Ribe and lawyer Marianne Abeler, both elected until 1 June 2022. Husbø has been the leader of the Commission since its inception for two six years. Holden and Gjul both have been members of the Commission for one six-year period. The Presidency proposes that Gjul and Holden be reinstated for a new six-year period. Furthermore, the presidency proposes that Professor Dr.juris Asbjørn Strandbakken be appointed as a new leader. Professor Strandbakken succeeds, as current leader, at the legal faculty in Bergen and has his work within. criminal law. With these suggestions, the investigative and prosecution skills that have been represented in the Commission until now are passed on. There is also a broadness in the background of members when it comes to competence, gender and geographical affiliation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-28.ana.ud345e159	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-28.ana.ud345e175	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: The allocated speaking time will be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes. The number is distributed as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Christian Party 5 minutes, Environmental Party Green 5 minutes and Red 5 minutes. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines will be given with replies after contributions from members of the Government. In addition, those who have to sign up for the speaker list in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-28.ana.ud345e186	This is an annual matter that is important in order to keep an overview, have transparency and control of the volume of exports of weapons, ammunition and other military material. This year’s Communication addresses the scope of this Communication in 2018. It is about what goods, services and technology relate to these goods that were exported, to which country and value of exports. The notification also does justice to Norwegian export control policy, current legislation and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs’ handling of applications for export of defence equipment, technology and services for military purposes. There is also another important issue in this message, and it is that she informs about international cooperation on export control and non-proliferation. The last one I'm going to come back to a little later. The size has been a driver to ensure maximum transparency in the export of defence equipment. Increased transparency and information have contributed to a more open sector and a broader societal debate on defence-related sport. It is therefore positive that Norway's reporting within the framework of the United Nations Agreement on Trade in Arms and Military Material will also be made public this year, and that an English summary of the paper will contribute to greater openness on arms exports also internationally. International work is becoming increasingly important. We see that there is greater unrest around us, and it is important to get greater transparency and not least control over the international market. Norway has an important task here. Export controls shall ensure that defence equipment carried out from Norway shall only go to recipients and recipient countries within the guidelines of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the management of licence applications. The main principle is the decision-making process of 1959 and 1997, which has also been updated in May 2019 to further clarify the scope of Article 7 of the ATT. ATT is the UN Code of Conduct for Arms Exports. Contracts in the defence industry often go over many years. Different distributions of deliveries may vary the export value. This is why in 2018 one had a strong growth in exports to the United States, while exports to Oman fell quite a bit. The total export of Norwegian defence equipment, multi-purpose goods, services, repairs and communication in 2018 was just under 517 million. kr. The largest beneficiaries of defence equipment from Norway are NATO countries, as usual, as well as Sweden and Finland. Seventy-eight pst. Norway’s exports of A-material went to NATO and Finland and Sweden in 2018, while 62 pst. of B material went to the same countries. Eleven licence applications were rejected for goods covered by List I and Military End Use List II. It is important for Norway and for Norwegian preparedness that we have our own defence industry. The production and export of defence equipment is a major source of value in Norway and is involved in research and development of technologies that can also be used civilly. There are many good examples of that. Although most enterprises are located in the same area, quite close to each other, there are also subcontractors in almost all the counties in the country. For these enterprises, the production of defence equipment is crucial for industrial development and local workplaces. It is also important that our defence industry has far-sighted and long-term framework conditions under which to work. At the same time, it is very important that Norway practises a strict export control code. We shall not sell weapons and ammunition to countries where war threatens or where serious violations of human rights have been detected. It is important to have common international rules on the sale of weapons and technology. In all relevant forums, the government must work for high international control standards in relation to exports of defence equipment. It's important to keep a string before-var-line. That the government stopped some of the exports to the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia is good, but that should have been done before. It is also good that the government has stopped new licenses and will review all existing licenses in exports to Turkey. At the same time, Norway is moving forward with exports of B-materials to countries involved in the ongoing conflict in Yemen, where the United Nations Group of Experts presented a report in September this year showing serious and systematic violations of human rights and humanitarian law. Whether Norway should live as we learn, i.e. We should not export weapons and ammunition to countries where war threatens or where serious violations of human rights have been detected, the government must go through the licenses of these countries carefully. In the context of Stortinget’s management of the previous export message in 2018, Norway’s Human Rights Institute, NIM, produces a written recording. In response, the government concluded with the clarification from NIM that the ATT Code applies to all wars and conflicts, and that the government appears bound both by the decision of 1959 and by ATT as special reasons for refusal of licence applications. In view of this, the road to banning all exports to countries involved in the war in Yemen should be quite short. We are living in an increasingly troubled value, where the major activisation increases, the emphasis on global agreements has been reduced and multinational cooperation can be confused. It is not a desired development for a small country like Norway. Disarmament has been given a shot at the bow since Russia and the United States broke the INF agreement, the disarmament agreement between the United States and Russia, which prohibits land-based medium-range rockets, which have been operating since 1987. It is also alarming that the government of the message says that one has received a signal that the UN arms trade agreement, ATT, is under pressure. The agreement is very important, and Norway must work actively to ensure that more than the 135 countries that have signed the agreement will join it. If disarmament is replaced by armament races and arms exports come out of control, we encounter a much more dangerous time. The central party wants Norway to use its free voice in the international community to promote peace and disarmament. It is also important to remember that Norway should join the UN agreement to ban nuclear weapons — the most dangerous of all weapons. Unfortunately, this big message, which is an annual inventory of arms exports, does not seem to be much more up-to-date in the coming years. With the increasing tensions and the increasing upgrade we see globally, it is likely that this will become an even more important theme in the years to come. Then we must have two thoughts in our head at the same time. On the one hand, it is an important industry for Norway, both for our defence, for our preparedness and, of course, for all the jobs in this industry. At the same time, it is important that we have control, that it is openness and transparency, and that we can have confidence that Norway does not export to countries involved in war or that violate humanitarian law and human rights. It's a difficult balance, but I have confidence that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Government are doing a very good job in this area. We have discussed whether ATT should be included in the law and regulations. It was discussed two years ago, and it was concluded that the Central Party is not included in the proposals that are currently pending. We believe that when we have had a discussion and a decision has been made, we believe and trust that the government will do so, simply to be very careful about how a user uses the legislation, and that one should use it strictly. Finally, a small clarification: in the setting, an incursion indicates a section related to which game suggests a decision. It shall be deleted, for the decision is that the matter shall be annexed to the Protocol, and then those lots shall not be framed as set out in the Settings.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-28.ana.ud345e224	Then it's noted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-28.ana.ud345e229	On the part of the Workers' Party, we are concerned that Norway should have a defence industry, that Norwegian companies should be able to export defence materials abroad. The reasons for the position are three-fold: firstly, because a viable Norwegian defence industry is an important preparedness for our own defence; secondly, because the defence industry contributes to jobs, export incomes and tax revenues to the Norwegian community; and thirdly, because we benefit greatly from being able to exploit the technological development of the defence industry in other sectors and sectors. At the same time, Norway shall have a strict regulatory framework for the export of defence equipment. The decision on the principle of the Great Britain in 1959 and the clarification in 1997 must be based on the fact that weapons and ammunition should not be sold to countries where war and conflict threaten, or to countries where serious violations of human rights have been detected. Therefore, the Minister of Foreign Affairs received broad support when she entered early to stop the issuance of new export licences to Turkey earlier this fall, following the Turkish military offensive against the Kurdish territories in northern Syria. The brutal civil war in Yemen has been a central issue in the administration of Norwegian defence export in recent years. The UN Emergency Office, OCHA, had to conclude earlier this year that Yemen remains the world’s most serious humanitarian crisis. About 24 million people, almost 80 pst. by the population of Yemen, needs assistance and protection. Hundreds of thousands are threatened by famine. A coalition of Gulf States with Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates, which the largest military contributors have been militarily involved in the Yemen War since March 2015, and the UN Security Council established its own panel of experts for the Yemen War in February 2014. In its annual reports in 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019, the panel has expressed strong concerns about the humanitarian consequences of the conflict in Yemen and about violations of humanitarian law. Unfortunately, the government allowed exports to countries militarily involved in Yemen even after the first serious report from the Security Council expert panel was presented. During 2016 and 2017, weapons and ammunition were exported at a value of 163 million. kr to United Arab Emirates. After several years of unforeseeable and changing practices, exports of weapons and ammunition to the United Arab Emirates were stopped on 3 January 2018, yet other defence equipment, i.e. B-material, was exported during 2018 to the Emirates at a value of 42.6 million. kr. On 9 November 2018, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs published a suspension of all export licences to Saudi Arabia after the Stortinget had a hearing last autumn, and it became clear that it was a majority in order to stop exports of military material, i.e. B-materials, to Saudi Arabia. Nevertheless, in 2018, other defence equipment was exported to Saudi Arabia at a value of 66 million. NOK, and there was an increase of SEK 25 million. kr from 2017. Yes, the opening for the export of weapons and ammunition, A-material, to the Emirates happened in 2010, under the Stoltenberg government, of which I was part. But the essential argument here is the war in Yemen – the military interference of the Gulf States started in March 2015. The first alarming Yemen report from the Security Council expert panel came in January 2016. The proper practice of the legislation would have been to introduce a preliminary stop in the issue of export licences to the country of military involvement in Yemen at the time, i.e. in 2016. Given the developments in Yemen and a new alarming report from the Security Council expert panel in February 2017, it would be right to go in for a preliminary to a permanent stop in the issuance of new export licences to countries militarily involved in Yemen. I therefore believe that the precautionary principle referred to in the Storing Message has not been respected. At that time, exports would have been suspended already after the first UN report in 2016. The government already knew in 2016 and 2017 that they should have pulled the brake and stopped defence exports to countries involved in Yemen. Let it be said from the Labour Party that the continuing dramatic and serious situation in Yemen now requires that the threshold be very low — very low — in order to reject licence applications for defence exports to countries militarily involved in Yemen. Finally, let me also address an important fundamental question about the practice of the export legislation, which has been updated in the wake of the Yemen war. Last year, the Norwegian National Institute for Human Rights, NIM, sent its own body for the protection and protection of human rights, its own written input to the Stortinget. There they argue that the government’s interpretation of the Export Code is problematic, given Norway’s international obligations. In the interpretation of the UN Arms Trade Agreement, ATT, the government has argued that it is permitted to export armaments to civil war parties supporting the legitimate authorities. But the Arms Agreement, that is, the ATT, refers to all situations covered by international humanitarian law, i.e. a legal system that does not take into account who is entitled to an armed conflict. As I read this year's export message, the foreign minister is now coming up with this criticism. The debate today can hopefully help to clarify and clarify this issue. However, on the part of the Labour Party, I would like to end by expressing my support for the Government to update the guidelines on defence exports in 2019 in order to further clarify the importance of Article 7 of the ATT arms trade agreement, which emphasises that all defence exports need to be assessed in the light of the risk of human rights violations and humanitarian law.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-28.ana.ud345e250	The annual report, which also triggers the annual debate, with many of the same arguments, seems to me this year – as the pastors do – to provide a good overview of the importance of this industry to Norway, although perhaps not in volume, so that we should have high-tech enterprises. Then I notice that the longer you talk about the message, the less you really talk about the regulation and the practice of it, which I think is what should interest the Stortinget in the first place. Our management system is such that we have a law, adopted in this room. Then regulations are drawn up, and then this is a nice opportunity to look at whether the controller, which is the Royal Ministry of Foreign Affairs, is following up the Storting's decisions and assumptions. There's a lot of interesting things to discuss, even in the world. But I cannot see that those who have managed the legislation on our behalf have not loyally adhered to the legal provisions, the legislation and the leadership that are also indirectly given through the annual debates like this one. It is also very interesting to see how the Norwegian legislation is also well connected to the dynamic interpretation that takes place within the agreements we are part of. Of these, the United Nations ATT Agreement and the additional criteria of the European Union are important, which elaborate our own clarifications from the 1950s and 1997. So I can just take a moment and remember that the consolidated EU criterion list takes into account that there is no licensing for companies to export arms. where this is incompatible with the international obligations of Norway; where there is a manifest risk that military technology or equipment will end up in the wrong hands; where exports could provoke or prolong armed conflicts or exacerbate existing contradictions or conflicts in the country of final destination; or where there is a risk that the intended recipient will use the military technology or equipment to attack another country or force it through territorial requirements with power. It brings me right into the presentations given by the intervention in Yemen, which is an unfortunate conflict, but where it is purely international law so that one accepts that a legal authority in a sovereign state may ask for assistance from friendly states. Once again, I have to keep perspective on this: Norway has followed the precautionary principle in these countries; it has been early out following developments and taking the consequences of it when it has evolved in the wrong direction. Norway has not recently exported a single weapon to Saudi Arabia, so what we are also talking about is other material that is not lethal but that can have military value. It's a distinction that every country that practices this code uses. The English use it – they distinguish mortal material, that is, weapons, and other material – the Swedes do it, and so on. There are no concrete indications or evidence that Norwegian weapons have been used in the Yemen conflict. That's really what we're talking about. But it is clear that if there are any indications of this, we have an administrative apparatus that follows that development closely. Then I also have to say that it is important not to make the national human rights institution a case manager by law, because that is not the Stortinge assumption either. They can make representations and their very comprehensive interpretation of the provisions here is not entirely contradictory or uncontested. It is nice that we have an institution that can contribute from its point of view, but at some point this has to be shared into normal Norwegian administration, where it is the legal Norwegian authorities that practice Stortingen’s provisions on this. Then I can't see that any of the critics have been able to point to an unfair or deficient follow-up to our office, which sits in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and follows up these matters very conscientiously. Because on this very day we become very aware that it is an arm's length distance from the commercial interests. It is said that Norway exports weapons; no, the Norwegian State does not export weapons. It is done by the 110 companies that produce weapons, which are, moreover, a completely legal commodity group between legitimate states, precisely because international law recognises the right to self-defence. If we hadn't had this – because it would have been the most preventive and pre-eating of all – we wouldn't have sold a single gun abroad, or a single spill. But then we would have weakened our own industrial base, we would have missed the technology that this part of the industry represents, and which, fortunately, is also used in very many civil contexts. It doesn't seem to worry the critics in particular. There is also no contribution to a world without weapons if we were to refuse to export on premises other than those we have agreed on. So it's not the Norwegian state that sells weapons, it's our companies that sell a legal product to legitimate countries, and then we're careful to have a code where we maintain the principle of arm's length distance between the administration and the commercial interests. It's just this dual system that this crash message describes in detail. I would also like to stay a little while at the post of the rapporteur, who had a comprehensive and excellent overview in many ways and much about what we agree on. But I must nevertheless be allowed to point out that when it is said that the United States and Russia have broken the cooperation on the INF, there is damage in order to miss out on some quite significant facts. First of all, it's a two-sided agreement. So there are two contract partners, although very many other countries are interested that the INF agreement could continue. But there's a systematic breach of the rule not to stick with rockets that have a range of over 500 kilometers and shorter than 5,500 kilometers. This has been demonstrated by the United States, and in accordance with its own logic and wording, Russia has therefore been granted a corrective period. When this is missed, you no longer have an agreement. I think it is incredibly important for an informed debate in Norway that we describe the steps taken or not taken in relation to international conventions, in a way that informs the population of why the INF agreement expired after it was found to have been broken, and that the Russians translated the corrective period according to the terms of the agreement. Then I must also say something about the presentation of how magnificent it would have been with a nuclear ban, as it has been negotiated as a UN resolution, not least by the Swedes, which has had a broad review of this. They had an official, Lundin, who, on order from the social-democratic government, said that Swedish interests – and the Swedes are not even in NATO – are worse, not least because of weaker verification requirements in the so-called nuclear ban agreement, which has the great weakness that it does not bind those countries that have nuclear weapons and, on the contrary, will put pressure on democratic countries for unilateral disarmament. So, as you will understand, that would be very damaging to our common security in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-28.ana.ud345e291	Finally, Stortinget can treat a cause of joy, which is positive. I notice the enthusiasm in the room that people are really engaged and see that there is something that really contributes to Norwegian business. For the Norwegian defence industry is a success story, they produce and find world-class solutions. We produce unique solutions because of our topography and our climate, which means that other countries have to copy ours, because we've been out so early, and because we've had all the assumptions to produce. That's really what we were going to talk about here today – not all that is negative, not that we're exporting for 41 million. kr in night gazettes to Saudi Arabia. It's like it's not what builds the country. Let's see what's positive about the defence industry, which over so many years and so many generations have brought us good businesses. Not least they have manufactured components and weapons ammunition for F-35. Among other things, we have NASAM air defence system, with great technology, we have rocket engines from Nammo, we have crypto equipment from Thales, we have communication equipment from Comod. This is all the world's leading, and we should be proud of that and not try to impose restrictions, restrictions and all sorts of obstacles in order to prevent them from succeeding – as part of this room spends all its time in getting it done. Exports of defence equipment also contribute to strengthening the defence capabilities of our NATO allies and other partners and thus also to the security and security of the nation and the population. The defence industry also contributes significantly to the creation of value, technology development, growth and jobs in many communities. It should also be noted in this room, because everyone here is probably representing different communities in Norway. Yes, it directly affects their industries and jobs in their areas if you want even more restrictions, because it is not the case that the defence industry consists of two to three enterprises in two to three locations, but it consists of hundreds of small enterprises around the country. So those who argue for stricter legislation, smaller exports, smaller production, yes, they argue away jobs in their own areas. Of course, it's easier if you're from a relatively large city, like I am, to argue against, but I'm still in favour. But those who are from smaller places should be careful to argue that way, because it simply does that deportation in these areas – which you complain about in the next instance – will be quite big. Total employment of the defence industry 7 000 people – there are quite a number of jobs. They contribute 1 billion. research and development – it is also quite significant. So this is money that comes from businesses that have earned money and that invests them further because they have faith in the future and development of the industry. They don't produce because they're going to kill people. They produce because they believe in solutions that allow them to protect people – not kill people. The spin-off effects of the defence industry create products and systems with widespread use in civil society, which make a significant contribution to national value creation. It almost says itself that it has spin-off effects. Then there's something special about the defence industry, which can conclude repurchase agreements, or industrial cooperation agreements, when they conclude contracts. This means that when we spend money on the procurement budget, we also give the defence industry the opportunity to develop further and create new jobs, new solutions, new technologies. Where would Norwegian cryptotechnology be today without the defence industry and without the defence export? Probably "nohere". It's also important. Those who are very concerned about cryptotechnology and think it's nice to bet on it, must remember that we can't just decide on the state budget that we're going to contribute more to R & D. We have private businesses that can handle this because it's profitable and they can export what they actually produce. The turnover of the defence industry was 16 billion. kr. Exports are $6.6 billion. kr, if you include non-licensed multifunctional goods and materials. There's a decrease of 8 pst. It's not good, isolated, but you have to see this in a long-term perspective. I remember when I worked in the Ministry of Defence, working on such defence industry agreements, that we started working with F-35 – then we talked about over 20 years ago – which was the replacement for F-16, and we visited, among other things. Swedish and French as well as American defence industries. It says a little bit about what perspectives you're talking about here, when you're talking about the replacement, and F-35 is probably going to be the last manned plane. Then something that is unmanned, probably far, far into the future – perhaps 50 years into the future. That's how long-term you work. So you can't make rules that go from year to year – you have to have stable framework conditions. We need to have predictable framework conditions and export control legislation in which companies recognize themselves, and which has resonated in the companies, so they understand what they have to do with. It is also important that we have as much identical export control legislation as possible, that we do not sit on our high moral horse and believe that we should have our own rules here in Norway, because we are even a little more moral and principled in this country – of course – than everyone else. We need to have relatively similar export control legislation, of course taking into account what is of history, experience and cooperative constellations that have been established over time. We're also a member of NATO, which, of course, puts us in a special situation, and which means that we have to be quite identical to our NATO countries. It is interesting with those who want the end-user statement. So, an end-user statement means that you have to export some other component, or advanced equipment, to a country that will guarantee that they will not pass it on. It's an impossibility, because that's not how it works! It's not like you produce a gun and sell it to Sweden, and then you say that you can't export it to Denmark. That's not how it works. We produce an advanced component that is part of a larger system, for example: a component of F-35. You deliver it to the United States, and then you can't tell Lockheed Martin that they can't export F-35 to a country that we don't accept. What would the United States say about it -- our NATO ally? Would they have purchased a component from Norway under that condition? Of course not. Of course we can do that, but that means that we might as well not produce these components to F-35, because they won't be sold. That really makes sense. If you think about it, it makes sense. But you can shut down the industry, as SV suggests in its 11 proposals for this message. So instead of producing 11 proposals, as SV has done, where they're going to make production only more expensive and more demanding, as they're of course trying to do – they do it every year, so it gets worse and worse, and eventually it doesn't pay off, and then they're very surprised that jobs disappear, and that people move out of the districts – they can rather promote one proposal. I have actually made two proposals, which I will not promote, but which SV can promote: they can ask the government to produce such specific requirements, conditions and guidelines for the export of Norwegian defence equipment that it will be impossible to achieve competitive or profitable production. It would be much easier to promote that proposal instead of all the 11. And then they can add: The government is asking the government only to allow the export of defence equipment to countries that prove don't need it. It would also be a brilliant proposal, because then you're kind of done with it, and then we don't have to have this message every year, and then we can live on other industries. Oh no, I forgot: SV and other socialists are not happy in the other industries that provide us with the most income, but they are quite happy in spending.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-28.ana.ud345e314	I'm just jogging the pulpit down a little after the previous speech. There is a war going on in Yemen where new gross and systematic violations of human rights and humanitarian law are still being detected, and it has been established that it may involve war crimes. It's a little bit of the backstop for the discussions we've had on arms exports in recent years, because it's been a lot about the countries participating in the coalition that are waging war on the Saudi Arabia side of Yemen. That is why it is very good that at least a large part of these debates have led to change, and that parts of the exports to the Emirates and Saudi Arabia have stopped. It is also necessary to discuss why this has not happened before, because it indicates that the precautionary attitude that must underpin Norwegian arms export policy is not strong enough. That is one of the reasons why we have proposed that this should be examined. In addition, we propose a halt in all exports to countries participating in the intervention because Norway still has exports of, among others, B-material to Saudi Arabia. I think that the Yemen war clearly shows the dilemmas we are going to discuss, and that is one of the important reasons why we have this export message, the dilemmas that I think all the parties – fortunately – acknowledge, perhaps apart from the last speaker's party. There is a broad consensus that we should have a defence industry in Norway, there is a broad consensus that it is necessary both for our own defence, for it to involve important industrial and technological environments that the country needs, and for it to contribute to important jobs around the country. But then it's also terribly naive of some to think that strengthening this industry means never asking critical questions, as Christian Tybring-Gjedde will. He is not the best friend of this industry, because if we do not ensure that we have rules for arms exports that meet the challenges we will face in the future, we will destroy for the industry. I believe that people in the industry themselves understand that, even though the Progress Party does not understand it. We're going to have an export policy that is in line with Norwegian values and principles, the values and principles we want to stand for in the world. It's clear that if you think it's not very dangerous to sell weapons to, for example. Islamist horror fields around, you just get to say it. I've always thought it's hard to understand that Christian Tybring-Gjedde, who is so angry at Islamism at home, thinks it's okay that we export B material to the worst Islamic horror of all, Saudi Arabia. I am at least very critical of the Islamic and fundamentalist regime in Saudi Arabia, and it would surprise me if not the Progress Party too. One of the principles we have in Norwegian arms export policy is that we should not export equipment if there is a risk that it may be used for internal repression. That is a good principle. Nevertheless, exports of B-material to Saudi Arabia have increased in recent years, increasing from 41 million. NOK 66 million. - Thank you. - Thank you. - Thank you. The 66 million. Of course, it is not something that the industry relies on. So pretending that this kind of discussion is a matter of life and death for the Norwegian defence industry is completely wrong. What is important, on the other hand, is the nature of the principles and values that Norway has to face in the world. The Saudi regime is responsible for imprisonment and torture, for systematic discrimination against women and minorities and for hundreds of executions every year, and the military and regime in this horror area is closely linked. That is why we are promoting proposals to stop exports to this regime, just as we also want us, in the current situation, with a Turkish invasion in Northern Syria that Norway has condemned, to be sure that all exports of Norwegian military material to Turkey will cease – including on-going licences. I will address the SV's proposal, but if the President allows, I will make a small correction to proposal No. 4th@item: inlistbox The word ‘end-user documentation’ shall be replaced by ‘end-user statement and re-port clause’. So with that, I'll take up SV's suggestion.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-28.ana.ud345e333	It's noted. The representative Audun Lighthouse has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-28.ana.ud345e340	There is no doubt that the Left shares the view of both the case rapporteur and a number of other speakers here that the Norwegian arms industry is of great importance, both for Norwegian jobs and for Norwegian defence. At the same time, there is no doubt that arms exports travel a number of dilemmas. The left is working for international disarmament, and the goal is a world free of nuclear, biological and chemical weapons, as well as class bombs and mines. However, these are things we have to work with internationally, and we do little by restricting the Norwegian arms industry. But also in order to ensure the legitimacy of the defence industry in Norway, it is important that we have a strict line in Norwegian arms exports, and therefore we have initially wanted to integrate Arms Trade Treaty, ATT, into Norwegian legislation. When there is no majority in favour, we are in any case clear that Norwegian obligations under the ATT must be complied with, regardless of whether they are incorporated into Norwegian law or not. In addition, it is essential that the public have access to the export of defence equipment from Norway, and therefore this notification is also important. We are pleased that, in the course of this year's arms export report, the Foreign and Defence Committee commends the government for strengthening the transparency of arms exports, and for keeping a pre-war line in relation to exports to Saudi Arabia and the Emirates. The government has also followed up the Storting's wish to present the arms export notification already in the second quarter, although we know that this requires a labour-intensive effort from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and the Left will commend the government for taking up the desire for an open debate in this way. I'm actually proud that it was our government that stopped the awarding of new B-licenses to Saudi Arabia, and that stopped the sale of A-material to the United Arab Emirates. This is actually the most offensive thing that has happened in Norwegian arms export policy, and it happens with a blue-green government. Then I must also point out some strange comments from the opposition parties in the position of this case. The Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV write among others. that weapons are not to be sold to countries where serious violations of human rights have been detected. At the same time, it was those who in the Stoltenberg II government opened up the export of A-materials to the Emirates, while not using the majority power to terminate the issue of new B-licenses to Saudi Arabia. The Yemeni war has undoubtedly updated exports to these countries. At the same time, I assume that both the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV were aware that the human rights situation in both Saudi Arabia and the Emirates was highly problematic, both throughout the Stoltenberg II regime and not least in 2010, when the red-green government gave green light to exports of A-material to the Emirates, which the blue-green government stopped in 2018. I think it is good that the Workers' Party, the Centre's Party and the SV have now changed their mind on this, and that they support it during the government's end of exports to Saudi Arabia and the Emirates. This gives us a good starting point to support the government's restrictive attitude towards arms exports. At the same time, I notice that there was going to be a blue-green government to end exports to Saudi Arabia and the Emirates.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-28.ana.ud345e359	The Christian People's Party has been a driver for many years to ensure maximum transparency and information on Norwegian arms exports. It is necessary to ensure democratic control and evidence-based societal debate. Norway has a military defence and is a member of NATO. It is therefore natural that we not only buy weapons and other defence equipment, but can also engage in trade with such goods, not least within the alliance. The majority of such exports then go to other NATO countries as well as to Sweden and Finland. The development and production of defence equipment provides great value creation and jobs, and it also contributes to research and technological development that can be used in the civil sector. However, international trade in weapons must be strictly controlled in order to prevent the access of unwanted recipients. The Christian People's Party therefore has a strong commitment to developing strict legislation for the export of defence materials, both in Norway and internationally. The guidelines for the examination of applications for export licences by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have been based for many years on the Stockholm decision of 1959 and 1997. In recent years, we have helped to strengthen guidelines and ensure greater transparency and information. It is good that we have achieved better international cooperation on such issues. A few years ago, we got the UN agreement on arms and military trade, the so-called Arms Trade Treaty. Norway is bound by it under international law. When the Christian People's Party joined the government in the new year, it was important for us that Norway should follow a strict pre-war line for such exports. This line led to a suspension of A-materials to the United Arab Emirates and lower threshold to refuse exports of B-materials and multi-purpose goods in December 2017. Norway has never allowed exports of A-material to Saudi Arabia, and the pre-war line also ended in the licensing of B-materials and multi-use goods for military use to Saudi Arabia in November 2018. In view of the human rights situation and the tragic war situation in Yemen, this is absolutely necessary. In addition to the restrictive Norwegian legislation, Norway shall also follow up the sanctions adopted by the United Nations Security Council, the EU action regimes and other international measures concluded by Norway. Examples of countries subject to such sanctions are Russia, Iran and North Korea. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we are pleased that there is also a broad consensus in this year's position on the main lines. That the legislation works in practice, we see, among other things: of the rejection of 11 licence applications for military end-use products in 2018. Moreover, the strict legislation does not even allow Norwegian industry to assess sales to a number of countries. It is positive that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs guidelines for such exports were updated no later than May of this year. This made Article 7 of the United Nations Arms Trade Agreement even clearer. In the view of the Christian People's Party, we must regularly look at the need to further improve the strict export legislation. The safety situation is changing. Weapons technology is evolving. Some regimes commit serious violations of human rights and oppress the civilian population. It is therefore essential that we keep an eye on developments and regularly review the export legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-28.ana.ud345e379	The message we are discussing today, which was presented in June, explains the export of defence equipment in 2018. In addition to the transparency of exports themselves, the legislation and guidelines for the examination of applications for export of defence equipment by the U.D. are also mentioned. Since the first communication was submitted in 1996, it has evolved from providing a rather brief description of the legislation and exports to provide a comprehensive description of government policy in the field of export control, the Ministry’s practice of the guidelines and its exports for each year. Like last year, an English summary has been published. Norway’s reports on imports and exports of weapons under the UN Arms Trade Agreement ATT have also been made public, and we encourage other countries to do the same. Norway shall continue to be in the international tenacity with regard to the transparency of such exports and shall be subject to the obligation of professional secrecy imposed on it. The rapporteur has presented the figures and exports in an excellent way, so I will not do so, but just stress that there has been a significant increase from 2017 to 2018 in exports to NATO countries, Sweden and Finland. It's gone up from 63 pst. to 78 pst. In this year’s notification, the government has reviewed and described the export control legislation in order to provide a more accessible regulatory framework, a better understanding of its use and the assessment of licence applications. This is mentioned in Chapter 3 of the message. We have also gone through the guidelines carefully, particularly in the light of an input from the Norwegian Institute for Human Rights. The film raised four issues that are most relevant in today's security policy landscape. They have been answered individually and specifically in the message. As the representatives will have seen, it is in Chapter 4 of the message. Due to the issue of violations of humanitarian law as a specific ground for refusal in the guidelines, a specific reference to humanitarian law has been included as a specific ground for refusal. This makes the practice that has already been followed quite clear. I would also like to stress that applications for export of defence equipment are always assessed against the 1959 Stortingen Decision, the 1997 Presidency, the ATT and the eight assessment criteria that are set out in the guidelines. Despite strict and comprehensive legislation, Norwegian defence companies have succeeded in several technology and niche areas. The defence sector also has a significant impact on – and transfer value to – civil technology, and that means important value creation and jobs. This is the broad political agreement, and it is also important that we have a viable defence industry in Norway. In order to meet our own preparedness needs, the defence industry must also have a market that is larger than Norway to export to. At the same time, the target of predictability and long-term sustainability has proved to be demanding in the global situation we are now working in, leading to a clear pre-war line towards countries in vulnerable areas. The military involvement of the Saudi-led coalition in Yemen and the very serious and unbridled situation that continued to develop beyond 2017 led the ministry to suspend the exports of A-material to the Emirates in December 2017. Unlike many other countries, Norway has never opened up the export of A-materials to Saudi Arabia, and in November 2018 we also stopped the further licensing of all other military and multi-use goods for military use in Saudi Arabia. I am deeply concerned about the Turkish military operation in northeastern Syria. The government has condemned the Turkish operation and immediately urged Turkey to quit the operation and withdraw the forces. As a direct consequence, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs decided on the day following the invasion to stop the processing of new applications for export licences for defence and multi-use products for military use in Turkey. All valid licences for exports of defence and multi-use products for military use in Turkey are reviewed and evaluated in concrete terms. Companies have been informed in writing that all exports of defence or multi-use goods for military use on valid licences to Turkey are pending. They are also advised not to include defence or multi-use repair or calibration products until further notice. The examination by the Storting of the annual communications gives public and parliamentary transparency to the practice of the U.D. guidelines. In a single case where special circumstances exist, the government will continue its practice of consulting the bodies of the Storing.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-28.ana.ud345e402	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-28.ana.ud345e407	I have just one question: that the Foreign Minister unequivocally confirms that she is dealing with Article 7 of the ATT and that all arms exports, including militaryly involved with consent, must be assessed in the light of human rights and humanitarian law. For it is where there has been a change that it has been contrary to Article 7 of the United Nations Arms Trade Agreement and the principle that all defence exports must be assessed in the light of a number of factors, including the risk of human rights violations and humanitarian law. So I ask the Foreign Minister to clarify clearly what she means here.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-28.ana.ud345e414	As we also describe in the Communication, ATT is legally binding on Norway. That means of course we relate to it when it comes to processing applications. We also agree with the clarification made by the ATT of course applies to all wars and conflicts. It's also the way AT practice, and it's been the whole way. We are bound by both the 59's, the 97's, and the ATT, and not least this is a particular ground for refusal. This is also explained in the message. In addition, the government is also leading a pre-war line. That is to say, the threshold for refusal is lower than that resulting from the conditions of the ATT, that it is ‘preferably likely that such adverse effects may occur’. We have wanted to respond to the input from the Norwegian Institute for Human Rights by clarifying it in the message, and we believe that the practice that has been followed is entirely in line with what the institution has set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-28.ana.ud345e423	It was commendable that the government stopped exports to Saudi Arabia and the Emirates, but there are still some remaining challenges. Exports of B-materials on existing licences have I been through, but I could imagine challenging the Minister of Foreign Affairs on the question of how we could end up in that situation. Because it's not new that Saudi Arabia is a oppressive regime with the will to use power against its neighbours. Does this not indicate that Norway had such a significant export to Saudi Arabia that the government had to intervene against, that the law has been interpreted too weakly in the years before? Should we not go through how it could happen, to make sure that we do not get back into a similar situation, where we intervene and stop exports too late?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-28.ana.ud345e428	I can only answer for my own time as constitutionally responsible. As a precautionary measure, and not because we had indications that Norwegian material was to be used for some of the parties participating in Yemen, the UN reports and others that came contributed to the suspension of valid A licences by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in December 2017. It was just after I took over. We also significantly lowered the threshold for rejection of B-materials and other military materials to all participating countries. As far as Saudi Arabia is concerned, we have never exported A-materials, but the export of B-materials and multifunctional goods has thus been open to Saudi Arabia until that time, in November 2018. It also includes previous governments, and as pointed out by the representative Melby earlier, human rights violations in Saudi Arabia are not a new phenomenon. What I can answer for is what I have done in my period, and then we have taken the precautionary measures into account, and that is now a much tighter export situation than it has been in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-28.ana.ud345e435	Now, to the extent that my question was not really an attempt to place responsibility for anything, because I think the export policy should have been stricter under our government, even though it should be added that the war in Yemen had not begun at that time. But it's just a good opportunity to look back and say, why wasn't exports to Saudi Arabia stopped at an earlier time, and stopped permanently? I think the government would have done well to get a job going. And if it were to focus a critical searchlight on previous governments, I am for it, because then we could make sure to get changes to the rules in the future. But I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs another question, since one of the spokespersons of the government parties in their speech actually said more or less that this debate is a bit irritating for the Norwegian defence industry. I believe this debate is important for the Norwegian defence industry, in order to mitigate the risk of it and increase legitimacy. I would like to hear the Minister for Foreign Affairs' assessment: is it a problem that we have a strict code for the Norwegian defence industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-28.ana.ud345e442	I believe that the Norwegian defence industry – through the annual debates we have – feels that there is considerable support for them to operate under strict framework conditions. It is important that we have a national defence industry and a viable one, and then they must be able to export. If they don't have the ability to be viable and meet our emergency needs. My experience with the work I have now been doing for nearly two years as Minister of Foreign Affairs is that the dialogue with the defence industry of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which helps to create predictability, which helps to interpret and explain the framework within which they must stay when they are seeking to export military material to other countries, is perceived to be a good dialogue. It also allows us to clarify situations like the one that arose when we decided to stop the licensing of new contracts to Turkey, but we also had to contribute to the fact that the deliveries that were possibly imminent were not dispatched either.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-28.ana.ud345e449	In Denmark, where the Committee recently visited, they have a very open approach to sending Danish soldiers to foreign operations. One has open debates in the Folketing, unlike in Norway, where one is consulted – to use that word – which is far from being an open debate. In the Netherlands, Parliament is publicly informed about the grant of export licences over a certain sum, and it is done within two weeks of a permit being granted. Then you get a detailed description of the criterion you have set against the one you have received. Is there a system that the Foreign Minister would like to introduce also in Norway, instead of getting a message that comes at least six months after one has completed the export?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-28.ana.ud345e456	The reason why the message comes a little after the end of the year is that we are going to have quality assurance of the figures that the industry has provided us, so that the information we get to Stortinget is both correct and includes what it should. There are, of course, different approaches and different laws in different countries. With regard to the question of consulting at a specific sum, I believe it is a small relevant and not suitable instrument, because it is not the sum in itself or the value of the export that is the important thing. The type of material exported is much more important. That is where the sensitivity lies to a large extent, not on the export value as such. You can, for example: have a high export value of B-material, which is quite uncontroversial, while a low amount of something that may be controversial. The Norwegian system is such that it is a comprehensive information obligation for anyone seeking to export material out of Norway. It is equivalent to a corresponding obligation of professional secrecy, including: on enterprise-sensitive information, which it is natural that it should be. The Netherlands may have gone on a different line there, but that's the practice we follow, which works well – combined with consultation with the Stortinget in very special cases, as I mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-28.ana.ud345e465	In the answer, the foreign minister stressed that it's a special sum. I'm completely in agreement with the Council of State that it's not the sum or the value of the export this is about. It's a deal in a country that is either in a war situation or violates the human rights or other criteria that Norway has set for our export code. But if one ignores it and of course also ignores purely business secrets – I can’t imagine that the government in the Netherlands rather stands for an open microphone with industrial secrets – is a greater openness something the foreign minister will consider?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-28.ana.ud345e473	I do not know exactly the details of the Dutch legislation. It is well possible that they do not reveal business secrets, but it has not been given that they have the same information obligation as we have for our companies to export. It is difficult to answer exactly how the Dutch legislation is structured. It is precisely the combination in Norway that enables us, within a very strict and comprehensive export control code, to carry out the assessments that have been thoroughly explained in the message, and that makes us come to Stortinget if there are special issues or special things that we would like to consult the Stortinget on, precisely in these matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-28.ana.ud345e480	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-28.ana.ud345e487	Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who has given a good and factual reflection on Norwegian arms exports. It's much calmer this year and not as aggressive as before this year. I think that's because the government has come together with both the opposition and Norwegian civil society, so we've actually had less arms exports to the more critical areas of the world, which have been significantly criticised in recent years. In particular, organisations such as Redd Barna, Changemaker and Amnesty have been at the forefront of bringing this debate to light, and it is clear that it has also influenced how Norway has dealt with these issues. As I said, SV is not against the Norwegian arms industry, but we believe that it must deal with ethical demands and legislation and, of course, should not contribute to war. I record that there are some people in this room who have a little mechanical vision of the legislation. Michael Tetzschner might illustrate that, maybe because of his background as a lawyer, but it's not that the law is absolute. They are interpreted in the context of the political situation, and there will be different events that contribute to the way in which they are handled. If, over time, more emphasis has been placed on the Norwegian defence industry and its needs and interests, the rules have been interpreted more liberally and more exportably. If the rules have been interpreted more along ethical and humanitarian principles, the rules have been interpreted more stringently. I believe that in recent years the government has put a little more emphasis on the latest – not the direction that Christian Tybring-Gjedde has been focusing on, but more on the fact that the humanitarian and humanitarian conditions in Yemen have been looked at, and then the practice of the rules has also changed. We have not received any explicit reports on Norwegian material on the ground in Yemen, but the government has also not been able to guarantee that Norwegian material and Norwegian weapons have not been on the ground in Yemen. Thus, the government may be afraid that this could suddenly appear, has been influenced to interpret these rules somewhat more stringently. We've got a new strong player on the track: Norway's human rights institution, which in two special areas, which I see is that I can't reach now, has taken up the practice of the Norwegian rules and made clear input to the government, which in turn has led to a better practice. All in all, the sign is at least satisfied with the direction this is taking. We're not quite in the target, but we're approaching something, and I hope in a few years we're going to completely end the export of defense material to the warring parties in Yemen.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-28.ana.ud345e502	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-28.ana.ud345e518	Culture is an important dimension of international policy, and a unanimous committee supports the government's proposal for Norway's agreement to conclude an agreement on 28 May 2018 establishing a Secretariat for the Northern Dimension Cultural Partnership, hereinafter abbreviated to the NDPC. This cultural partnership is a cooperation between the EU, Iceland, Norway and Russia, and the aim is to contribute to social and economic development in this area, more specifically by focusing precisely on what is culture-based economic development. Norway has contributed financially to the cultural partnership since 2012 and has paid an annual voluntary contribution to the activities of the partnership and to the operation of the Secretariat. The sum has been relatively modest for NOK 300000. Making the Secretariat permanent with regard to Riga will increase the predictability of the work, and in this way it will be able on its own initiative to perform its function as an administrative support for the Culture Partnership, the NDPC. The Norwegian Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Government has managed to negotiate an agreement between the parties, precisely with a view to giving this Secretariat the status of an independent legal entity under international law. Norway has already signed the agreement with Finland, Latvia, Russia, Poland and Sweden. However, since the agreement involves future financial expenditure of a certain size per year, this requires the consent of the Storting. It's positive that the Storting is giving this exactly today. The approval of the agreement will be fully in line with Norwegian interests and government priorities in the field of international cultural cooperation. The cultural partnership is an important basis for our foreign policy and is thus in line with Norwegian interests in cooperation with countries in our neighbourhood.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-28.ana.ud345e531	I take the opportunity to speak in this debate because last week the Stortinget was the host of the sixth Northern Dimension Parliamentary Forum in Bodø. The partnership we are discussing here today also has its parliamentary counterpart. Initially, I would like to take the opportunity to thank the employees from Stortinget who arranged for a well-performed conference with very positive feedback from the participants. Thanks also to the Grand President, who was an excellent host for the guests we had. At this conference, representatives from both the Russian State Duma, the European Parliament, from the Icelandic Everything and a large delegation also from the Norwegian Storing. As usual for such parliamentary conferences, a final declaration was drawn up and is directly relevant to the matter under consideration. It contains a chapter on cultural cooperation and the network that will now receive its secretariat. The Final Declaration recognises culture as an instrument for building strong and attractive societies and also for building an identity. It is related to the opportunity to develop culture as part of the tourism industry and also to develop a creative sector — enterprises operating with culture as part of their business base. I would like to ask the Council of State to note that the final statement underlines the importance of international cooperation in order to succeed, as the rapporteur also stated in his statement. This final declaration, of course, supports the establishment of a secretariat in Riga and responds to the challenges facing it. Finally, I will take the opportunity to recall four important points that concern not only cultural cooperation and the network but also all the partnerships concluded under the Northern Dimension. The first thing that is important to note is that all parliamentarians who were there underlined the importance of meeting at political level between the respective partners, namely Russia, the EU, Norway and Iceland. Particular attention should be paid to the ministerial meeting announced during 2020, which aims to look at new perspectives and renew this networking. The importance of focusing attention on the rights of indigenous peoples in this cooperation is underlined. It concerns the cultural network, but also others, including: health cooperation and environmental cooperation. Climate change and its consequences are fundamental to understanding developments in the north ahead. The region is one of the regions that are first hit globally and that are hit hardest — in short, twice as hard as average warming as the rest of the globe. It also has to be a bit of cultural cooperation to have attention there. I'm going to end with what might be new. As a result of the fact that we also chose to include young people in the conference and give young people a place in their perspective, the final declaration for future development has highlighted the need to facilitate, in cooperation in future, the consultation and inclusion of young people in the design of the cooperations and actions undertaken. We wish the Riga Secretariat every success.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-28.ana.ud345e554	I want to start by thanking the representative Sivertsen for his contributions. I understand that the Parliamentary Assembly is on track in the work that is taking place throughout this dimension, and we are going to take with us the input that is contained in the declaration by the Parliamentary Assembly. This matter concerns consent to the conclusion of an agreement to establish the Secretariat for the Northern Dimension Cultural Partnership. The northern dimension is cooperation between the EU, Iceland, Norway and Russia. The aim of cooperation is to contribute to social and economic development in the area. Norway participates in three other partnerships within this dimension, namely transport, health and the environment. Within the cultural partnership, there is a particular focus on culture-based business development and cultural tourism. It is clear that the indigenous population perspective is also very important in order to have the opportunity to develop its potential. The Norwegian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, together with us in the Ministry of Culture, has managed to negotiate an agreement on the secretariat of the partnership. The Agreement confers on the Secretariat the status of a maritime legal entity under international law. The agreement has already been signed by Finland, Latvia, Norway, Poland, Russia and Sweden. The agreement is ready for ratification at the time of the deliberation. The agreement currently concluded on the Secretariat of the Partnership provides a predictable and appropriate framework for cooperation. I am pleased that the administrative issue related to cooperation has been resolved, and that international cultural cooperation and the development of cultural and creative industries, which is what the partnership is all about. I believe that using culture to bring land together is a very effective way of working together. This government has been making great efforts internationally in the last year to use art and culture as arenas to bring up both the dialogue and the understanding of each other. It's clear that there's a way to work, a method, which I think will bring land closer to each other, cultures closer to each other and promote respect for each other's culture in a better way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-28.ana.ud345e567	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-28.ana.ud345e583	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: the allocated speaking time shall be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-28.ana.ud345e590	This is a proposal for a representative, which – at least on paper – has the ambition to transform the Storting decision to join the EU's third energy market package, which Stortinget took in 2018. As the rapporteur on the matter, I must also explain why the proposers believe this matter should be raised now, and I also expect them to elaborate on their own reasons. In any case, we note that the drafters disagree with the Storting decision of 22 March 2018, with regard to the inclusion of this energy market package in Norwegian law, and also with the agreement of the EU Energy Agency, Acer. The proposers believe that the decision was taken despite strong opposition from the Norwegian trade union movement and the rest of the population. The proposal for a representative expresses a demand for the Storting to re-examine the matter and, on the one hand, a call for a negotiated joint declaration with the EU in line with the Norwegian position, which has been expressed in a political agreement between the Labour Party, the Right, the Progress Party, the Left and the Green Party in the original decision. During the Committee's examination of the matter, we asked for an opinion from the Ministry of Oil and Energy. There it is found rather laconically that this is a normal connection to an international agreement, and that we have thus assumed an obligation under international law to implement the decision. I would like to add, for my part, that the moments that are being carried out are in short form completely unchanged from the broad debate and the review that the Stortinget had when it joined the third energy market package. I would like to remind you that it is not to bind ourselves, but precisely to exploit the freedom of action that Norway achieves by entering into a firm contractual structure in a field as important as energy policy. It is therefore the desire of the majority in this Chamber to further develop common rules for the internal market in electricity, of which Norway is part through EU cooperation, and the cooperation and agreement reached between the EFTA States and the EU. There is a consensus that dates back to May 2017, where it was agreed that this would be implemented with the necessary adaptations due to the special status of EEA countries. Then we must remember that ACER is a desire to promote cooperation between the national regulatory authorities in the EU/EEA area, to contribute to the development of an internal market and to the better and more favourable use of the overall power resources for the area as a whole. In order to do this, it is necessary to accept that, as in other agreements, certain reciprocal obligations are entered into, for example: that ACER may also issue opinions and recommendations and, in certain technical and restricted areas, may take decisions in addition to the advice and opinions it delivers. By doing so, we believe that the great EU debate can rest safely. It is not a matter of giving away national regulatory authority involved in the concession treatment of foreign power cables or other power generation. I think I will end there, and then the proposers get more detailed reasons why they believe that we should have a rematch on a matter that has been thoroughly dealt with by the Stortinget as late as 2018.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-28.ana.ud345e603	It is a strange thing we are dealing with today, because you can get the impression that the Central Party and the proposers believe that the Stortinget did not fully understand what they decided last year. I would like to remind you that there was really a rare discussion both in public space and here in the Stortingen on this matter, and the five parties that agreed, which, of course, constitute a large majority, and who voted for the position that was adopted by 3⁄4 majority here in the Chamber, knew what they were doing. It was a thorough work that led to it, also an agreement that was to a very great extent the basis of this broad consensus. The proposers refer to the Workers' Party's prerequisites for supporting a third energy market package. Then I would like to stress that the assumptions – eight in the number – were all met. The measures required — the changes required — to meet them had the ability of the Norwegian authorities themselves to comply. There was another device at the Energy Regulatory Authority, and there were changes in the Energy Act to ensure the monopoly of Statnet on foreign tables — and a few other adjustments. Otherwise, the conditions for the third energy market package were met. We also agreed to make a statement to the EU on Norwegian principles in energy policy that would be important for future changes in EU energy policy. So it was not an agreement on the third energy market package, because it was taken care of; it was an agreement on any future changes. The proposed document gives the impression that the proposers believe that this was carried out only by a kind of transmission of a note to the EU — that is, at least as described in the proposal. It was a preliminary transmission. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has personally presented it politically in the EU at the first Ministerial meeting after Iceland joined the ACER. The declaration is therefore made at the top of an EFTA ministerial meeting. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has so late today confirmed to the European Committee that this has been done, so that the criterion is also met. So these are the leaders of the discussion we will have when we will be discussing the clean energy package once in the future, what was formerly called the fourth energy market package, but which is now called the clean energy package in the EU. There we have a very good starting point for that discussion, because that is exactly the starting point of that statement and the principles on which there was an agreement between five parties on the Stortinget. But we haven't started that debate, so now when it's drawn up as an argument to vote again over the third energy market package, that things have happened afterwards that, in the opinion of the proposers, break with it in the next package, it becomes a bit messy. You can almost get the impression that the point is not really to influence politics, but to get a new opportunity to talk about a matter that all of us have, for the most part, clarified and really is quite satisfied with. Finally, I would like to stress that the Stortinget made a different decision right before we took a summer holiday this year, namely to enter into a comprehensive climate agreement with the EU. A very central element there is that we work closely with the other European countries to develop clean energy, we have several other good debates going on, among others. the development of sea wind, and this clean energy package will have to be seen in the light of this extensive climate change work with the EU. The important thing for me in this debate is that the assumptions we made are met through the clarifications we got here in Norway, and that when we get there we will engage in a thorough debate on future energy market packages in the EU. There's nothing to suggest that it's right around the corner, but when we get there, we have a good foundation that we're taking with us. I think we can vote in favour of the way we did last time, and maintain the support for the connection that has already been made. Norway is now a member of ACER and connected through the EEA along with Iceland to the third energy market package, and I think we will be doing well on this, especially at a time when we have become as much an importer as an exporter of electricity. There's sometimes an impression that we're basically exporting electricity. That was right once. Now there is a fairly good balance between in and out of Norway in terms of electricity, and often we import through the same cables a reasonable surplus wind power into Norway that gets the price in Norway down.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-28.ana.ud345e624	Today, 25 years have passed since the Norwegian people said no to Norwegian membership of the EU. I am aware that there are representatives in this Chamber who are not equally satisfied with the result that was signed, but the Stortinget as an institution – the Norwegian Parliament, Norwegian legislators – should be very pleased with the wise and forward-looking election that the Norwegian people took by saying that we would have a development that strengthened the Norwegian People's Government, when we said no to a union, which gave us the opportunity to manage social development in important areas as an independent country. Through the EEA Agreement, the EU intervenes in Norwegian autonomy in emerging areas. At the latest today, at the European Committee meeting, the government briefed that legislative changes have to be made in a number of new areas as a result of new directives on the way through the EEA Agreement. In the past, the majority of Stortinget has taken steps to give up power and subject the Norwegian Financial Supervisory Authority to EU financial supervision in important areas. A new railway package from the EU is now being discussed, which will make important decisions in the EU's future Norwegian railway policy if the Stortinget agrees. Thus, with a third energy market package, to which the majority of the Stortinget has previously agreed, vital parts of Norwegian energy and industrial policy are put in the hands of the EU. These are major and serious decisions for Norway as a nation. Norway has a tradition of using our rich natural resources, using hydropower, creating jobs and building good communities around our long-range country, creating values. The fact that, as a large energy nation, we are now going to submit to the EU in important areas is something the Centre Party has argued strongly and forcefully against. With the new energy market package that the EU has now adopted, developments in the EU are continuing. Statnet shall be responsible for the development of ten-year network development plans in line with the EU's priority projects. If non-conform, they may enter and require changes to the plans. The reason why it is important, including in this case, is that the EU's third energy market package is part of the EU's energy union project. It shall compensate for differences in electricity prices in Europe, where the competitive advantages we have had in Norway are to be offset. The declaration sent from Norway to the EU has been sent as a purely Norwegian briefing. Yes, it has been presented by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and what has been reported back from the government to the Grand Duchy is that the EU has taken it for information. There is no attempt at a joint declaration between the EU and Norway. Icelandics have at least tried to obtain a political joint declaration – not in the EEA context – between representatives from Iceland and the EU. And not enough, one of the big questions is just sovereignty over foreign tables. The Icelandic authorities provided parallel treatment for the third energy market package by sending out a press release saying that the decision on IceLink should be withdrawn, that it should be withdrawn from the EU list of priority projects. There is something that Icelanders have been able to do in the last revised list, while one from Norway has not even tried. It is only reported that one has no comments from the Norwegian side. Therefore, we should make sure to do the same. The national meeting of the Joint Undertaking has been called for: to re-treat the third energy market package and to go out and withdraw sovereignty.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-28.ana.ud345e637	Should the representative take up the proposals of the Centre Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-28.ana.ud345e642	The representative will address the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-28.ana.ud345e647	The representative, Sigbjørn Gülsvik, has drawn up the proposals of the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-28.ana.ud345e652	I also think it is a good day to discuss the EU. Yes to popular rule and no to Union was a supporting slogan for the broad alliance that won the 1994 referendum. In the discussion on the accession of ACER and the EU's third energy market package, we have also seen a broad alliance of different parties, trade unions and organisations – where issues of sovereignty and who to decide are the central issues. There may be different views on how to organise the energy market, how to use the power. It's not all the arguments used against Acer that we in SV think are good arguments, but the central question is, Where should power lie? Where will power over important choices for society lie in a country that has said no to join the EU? The Joint Federal Assembly recently called for Norway to withdraw the transfer of power to the EU Energy Agency, which we agree with. We are concerned with Nordic and European energy cooperation, it has been and will be necessary, among other things. to ensure security of supply and good environmental policy. However, Norway has a tradition of, and has shown, such cooperation is possible without giving up national sovereignty in the way that ACER and the incorporation of the third energy market package will involve. We believe it is important that we have control over the regulation of the electricity grid and the electricity market, and we fear that ACER will challenge the national control we have today. It's not unnatural to have that discussion, because there's still a lot that's unclear as to what an accession today will mean by a future renunciation of sovereignty, and how much national governance we risk losing in the long term. Therefore, the SV Group will vote in favour of the two proposals that we are in favour of in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-28.ana.ud345e661	It is 25 years since the people's no to the European Union and yes to the rule of peoples. It would be a good day for the Stortinget to follow the proposal of the Center Party and withdraw us from the Acer and take back full national sovereignty and control over the hydropower, the energy, and thus also the industrial policy of our country. There is a reason why the basic plan of the Joint Union at the national meeting in the autumn won through the decision to withdraw control of our legacy silver – take it back from the European Commission, take it back from Brussels. They wrote and said that the power was to be used for the benefit of industry and households, as it has been through history. That is why we have to say no to ACER and several foreign tables, said the Joint Federal Assembly. These are those who are at the forefront of value creation in Norway, and who also know what an enormously valuable resource hydropower is, and not least to have control over electricity prices. That price can, of course, be affected if we build even more foreign connections and harmonise Norwegian electricity prices with the electricity price level in the EU. A few ears increase in the electricity price as a result of that harmonisation can be the hook at the door of crucial important industry along our entire coast. That is also the background to the fact that over 100 Labour Party rapporteurs said no to Acer, that LO said no to Acer, and that also the AUF said no to Acer. But then the Labour Party leadership and the Labour Party on the Stortinget joined with the Right, the Progress Party, the Left and the Environment Party of the Greens towards an overall trade movement and for the EU and Brussels, and to transfer sovereignty from the Stortinget to a union in which we are not even a member. So this pill was sucreted with an agreement that was made by the Workers' Party that called the indispensable requirements for connection to the Acer. These requirements do not have a legally binding status. They have been sent to the EU as an annex, an English translation to which reference has been made. It has been noted and taken for information. This agreement between the parties, the ACER comrades in Stortinget, has as much legally binding status towards the EU as an opinion of a Norwegian association or a Norwegian cyclone. There is no legal significance for how the EU will manage ACER and also decide on any new cables between Norway and the EU in line with the EU Network Development Plan. This is what the Labour Party leadership produced as mandatory requirements for subordination under ACER and the EU. So it was a bluff to sue a pill that the entire trade union movement went against for very good reasons, and that the trade union movement still maintains today through the Joint Federal Assembly Decision of October this year. The trade union movement and we here in the Chamber know that we are going to face major necessary changes, away from oil and gas dependence, and build new, green industry and jobs in our country. Then a support bar for this is that we can still secure the industry long-term, predictable agreements on cheap electricity for the processing of metals and minerals that the world needs. Norway has the world’s purest aluminium production and the world’s purest silicon production, driven by energy from fully renewable Norwegian hydropower. This is what is at stake when the Progress Party, the Labour Party, the Right and the rest of the ACER comrades give the EU the right and control over parts of Norwegian energy, and thus also industrial policy. We know today that the inevitable guarantees are not worth the paper they are written on. Therefore, Stortinget should support the proposal and take back full national sovereignty over our energy and therefore also our industrial policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-28.ana.ud345e671	Energy supply is the EU’s largest source of greenhouse gas emissions. In order to achieve the emission targets under the Paris Agreement, the EU is now working towards a more climate-friendly and efficient energy supply. For the EU, it is necessary to ensure market legislation that underpins the necessary transformation to achieve the climate objectives. Part of this is the EU’s third energy market package, adopted in 2009. In March 2018, the majority agreed to include the third energy market package in the EEA Agreement. The size also adopted the necessary changes to the Energy Act and the Natural Gas Act, which now entered into force in the autumn. The third energy market package continues the first and second energy market package, which has been part of the EEA Agreement for several years. Following the decision of the Storting in March 2018, Norway notified the EEA Committee in April 2018 that the constitutional situation had been satisfied. The EU was also presented with the agreement between the Labour Party, the Right, the Progress Party, the Left and the Green Party on the Third Energy Market Package. The declaration is a clear expression of the Norwegian view. In the autumn, Everything in Iceland adopted a similar agreement to include the third energy market package in the EEA Agreement. Norway is therefore obliged by international law to implement the Decision of the EEA Committee of 5 May 2017 and this Decision entered into force on 3 October 2019. The amendments adopted to the Energy Act and the Natural Gas Act and related regulations entered into force on 1 November of this year. This legislation in the third energy market package has thus been implemented in Norway. This has been done in line with the Storting's assumptions and with the agreement between the majority parties on the Storing. I see no reason to present the matter for a new treatment in Stortinget. Nor can I see the need to negotiate a joint declaration with the EU now. The Norwegian position is clearly expressed in the agreement of March 2018, from the majority parties on the Stortinget, and this has been communicated to the EU. The Joint Declaration between Iceland and the EU is a political declaration. It does not amend the legislation of the EEA Committee’s decision on the energy market package, by which both Iceland, Norway and Liechtenstein are bound. In fact, Iceland is in a special situation without flow transfer connections to the rest of the world. Norway, on the other hand, has been exchanging power with our neighbouring countries for many decades and is part of the Nordic power market. When both the Nordic countries and the rest of the EU are working for a more functioning power market with increased renewable energy inputs, this also affects us. In accordance with the EEA Agreement, it is also important that Norwegian actors can participate in this cooperation. Since the adoption of the third energy market package in 2009, the EU has adopted further regulations, including: on the power market, energy efficiency improvement and renewable energy. In the field of energy, Norway may have a different starting point than the EU, for example: as regards access to renewable and climate-friendly energy. At the same time, we have a common objective that the market should facilitate, as far as possible, that we can achieve the political objectives we have set ourselves. We are therefore united in the desire for the most efficient operation of the power systems. For the government, it is important that Norwegian interests are best taken into account in meeting EU policies and legislation. EU legislation needs to be properly analysed and discussed before possible inclusion in the EEA Agreement, with the necessary adaptations. I would also like to point out the many EEA adaptations that have been made to the third energy market package, the purpose of which was and is to take care of Norwegian concerns.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-28.ana.ud345e692	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-28.ana.ud345e697	One of the crucial issues in the Acer case is the ability to have full access in the future to the development of foreign tables. In the follow-up to the Joint Declaration with the EU, Icelanders have withdrawn the application for IceLink, precisely to ensure that it is not included in the EU list of priority projects, which may, in the next round, lead to pressure to implement it. When the revision of EU plans was consulted with the Ministry of Oil and Energy, feedback from the Ministry this summer was that one had no counter-representation, no comments, that NorthConnect was still on that list. Why should NorthConnect remain on the list of EU priority projects?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-28.ana.ud345e704	I have previously commented on this in a letter to the Stortinget on 14 August, and the same question has been discussed in Prop. 4 S for 2017-2018. As can be seen from these documents, I cannot see that there are provisions relating to network development plans that have such an obligation in relation to the representative on which his question is based. And it's important to hold on by the fact that concessions to foreign authorities are determined by Norwegian authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-28.ana.ud345e709	Thus, in the fourth energy market package, Statnett was obliged to submit ten-year network development plans, which should also be in line with EU priorities. Today, the EU has a list of priority projects, a number of projects that previously included both IceLink, Iceland and the EU, and NorthConnect. When we had the red-green government, the red-green government opposed that NorthConnect should be on that list. They sent letters to the EU, the EU argued back, and the red-green government insisted that NorthConnect should not be on that list. The new government has taken steps to bring NorthConnect back into the list of EU priority projects. If there is to be a complete independent assessment in the future, you have to make sure that it is out of the EU's priority project, so that we can make an independent national assessment of it ourselves. Why does the government not ensure that NorthConnect is out of the EU list of priority projects?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-28.ana.ud345e718	In the case of NorthConnect, it shall be treated in an entirely ordinary manner by the Norwegian authorities. Norwegian authorities decide whether or not to grant a concession. I think it is quite obvious that the Norwegian authorities are making that decision. I note that there is a proposal for a representative to be discussed in Stortinget next week to reject this application, and I believe that it is a good confirmation that the Norwegian authorities are taking this decision. If that was what the representative from the Central Party thought, you would have to have addressed it to ACER. So you don't. The decision is addressed to those who make the decision, and it is the Norwegian authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-28.ana.ud345e723	I note that those who have been critical of Acer in Iceland, in the context of the approval of the third energy market package in Iceland, have ensured that an initiative has been taken on the Icelandic side to remove IceLink from the EU list of priority projects for the development of foreign houses. It's happened. The parties – one of whom has referred to the Workers' Party – who have talked about so-called indispensable requirements in this matter have not similarly ensured that the Norwegian Government has taken care to remove NorthConnect from the EU list of priority projects. Why has no such initiative been taken by the Norwegian side, and is there full agreement between the partners in the Acer case that it should not be done?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-28.ana.ud345e730	I have tried to answer that question: The Norwegian position is clearly expressed. So the decision whether to build a cable, or even more cables, is for the Norwegian authorities to take. Now, NorthConnect is going to be treated, and the authorities are going to follow it up in a very ordinary way, as we've done and are going to do, and make a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-28.ana.ud345e735	I notice that the Council of State is standing here and has clear insights into what freedom of action Norway has in this matter. So he has not been sure to share that view with the EU. The so-called mandatory requirements of Norway have been sent to the EU for information, and the EU has replied that one has taken note of the Norwegian views. If the Council of State is so sure that the EU and Norway have a common understanding of this: why has the Council not taken the initiative for a joint commitment in this matter which states that the EU and Norway have a common understanding of these views?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-28.ana.ud345e740	First of all, the Joint Declaration between Iceland and the EU is a political declaration, and it does not change the law, the decision of the EEA Committee and what we are obliged to do about it. So it's like there's more people who want this cable, among other things. those who have applied for a concession. I remember that there was one party in particular, which had the oil and energy minister, who wanted to make Norway the green battery in Europe, and the representative's party has contributed to the fact that there are some foreign connections. That it is a desire to build this cable, yes, I have also registered it, but what is obvious is that the decision whether or not to build a cable is for the Norwegian authorities to take.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-28.ana.ud345e747	The government asked NVE to wait for the power market analysis before NVE would decide on NorthConnect's concession request. The analysis came in October. Before the summer, the Labour Party voted for the following in Stortinget: ‘The government is asked to go against several foreign tables before we have gained experience of the two started cables to Germany and the United Kingdom. Social benefits must be documented before several foreign tables can be built.’ So these parties voted against in the same meeting. I have two questions. Question 1: When can we expect the NVE's concessional treatment to be ready? Question 2: Will the Government guarantee that the government will stop a yes from the NVE to the NorthConnect concession as long as we do not have actual experience of these cables being completed and put into service?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-28.ana.ud345e762	What I can answer to question 1 is that the NVE's professional review of NorthConnect is going to come to the department before Christmas. I can guarantee – precisely because it is the Norwegian authorities who make this decision – that when you get the professional basis, we will normally, as we always do, in line with good administration, work through this concession request in the way you should do it, and then you have to draw a conclusion. We have not received the professional basis from NVE. Once we get that, we're going to start the job, and we're going to do that job in a thorough way. I can guarantee that, because it is the Norwegian authorities who make the decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-28.ana.ud345e769	Thank you for your answer to question 1. As for question 2, there was a lot of dancing around the pot, so I'm going to repeat the question to get a clear answer. Espen Barth Eide says to the nations today that the criteria for which the Workers' Party has voted must be laid down and fulfilled in order to be able to say yes to NorthConnect. One criterion, then, is that NorthConnect cannot be accepted until we have gained experience from the two started cables to Germany and the United Kingdom. The cables must be built before we can gain experience from them. It's in the nature of the matter, and I think the Council of State also understands the obvious logic. That is why I repeat the question to the Council of State: can the Council of State guarantee that they will not agree to NorthConnect until we have gained actual experience from the two cables that are now under construction, that is, before they are ready and we can gain experience from them? Would you like to decide on NorthConnect first – yes or no?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-28.ana.ud345e778	I ask for understanding that I cannot guarantee anything other than that when we start concession treatment, it should be done in a thorough and tidy manner – in line with Norwegian administration practice and tradition. What I can guarantee is that that job will be done properly, and then we, the Norwegian authorities, will conclude when we have done that job.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-28.ana.ud345e785	Replicate cord shift complete. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-28.ana.ud345e792	I thought I would stick to the matter, new treatment of the third package, etc. I see that both posts and cord changers are about everything other than that. As the Minister of Oil and Energy has stated in a letter to the Committee during the examination of the matter, the constitutional requirements for the inclusion of the EU's third energy market package have been met, and Norway is therefore obliged by international law to implement the decision. So today's proposal for a representative is a purely labelling exercise by the proposers and cannot be seen as anything but a rematch. Let me remind you: it is very positive that the third EU energy market package comes into place and that it is possible to ensure the proper functioning of the electricity market. Energy supply is the EU's largest source of greenhouse gas emissions, and in Norway we have a long experience of achieving climate-friendly energy supply based on renewable energy. The EU is working towards a more functioning and climate-friendly energy system in Europe, and Norway is participating here. Climate is not a challenge for individual countries to solve alone, but it can almost be heard this way when I hear some of the previous speakers. In Norway, we have a long experience of climate-friendly energy supply, and we support the EU's ambition to develop a clean and competitive energy sector at the lowest possible cost. Norway is part of the European energy market, and it is in our common interest to have a positive development in this area. Norway already has ambitious renewable energy targets and our renewable share is very high. Good access to renewable energy enables us to further invest in the electrification of the transport sector, as well as other sectors. In the comments on the proposal for a representative, the Senterpartie presents many assumptions on the next energy market package, the fourth of which is the EU. It may seem like – at least the thoughts call it quickly – whether the Center Party, with its remarks, wants to paint a certain gentleman on the wall. The most important thing to say about this at the moment is that it is not presented to the Stortinget. I hear a lot of people in the line changes are trying to get attention to it, but we're going to have it for treatment later, and we're going to relate to it when it's presented. At the same time, it is important to point out that, by integrating the third energy package, Norway achieves many important EEA adaptations to the electricity market. Norway has the right to participate fully in the work of the Acer – working group, committee, board of directors and regulators.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-28.ana.ud345e809	First, I would like to congratulate everyone on the 25th anniversary of Norway's no to the EU. It is a paradox that we are once again discussing how this government, together with the Labour Party, is adapting Norway more and more to the EU's internal market, at speed and without shame in life, given that Norway actually said no. When a listener listens to the representative Schou from the Right, a thought must be given to the Right's position on Norwegian ownership and Norwegian sovereignty over time. And about energy: if you look back at what was the really big discussion about ownership of Norwegian energy, it was before the concession laws were introduced. At the time, foreign investors bought up foss cases, and in 1906 two thirds of the fossages that were built up were foreign. Timely, forward-looking politicians open up to a completely different development, which has led us to build industry along the whole coast, business, we have power-processing industries that really stand in international competition. But the Right was strong against. We have the purest aluminium production and silicon production in the world, just outside me have a stoved door. Amazingly capable people compete globally in a good way. The representative Schou also said that the Center Party is painting the hell on the wall, and the representative Barth Eide from the Labour Party said this is a strange thing. Yes, it is also strange to see right-wing representatives from the Labour Party and Right-wing desavuate that one will include the future fourth energy market package in the debate, once it has been agreed in the EU. Talk about going with blindfolds to the future. Nor has anyone protested at the interpretation of it and the comments made by the Central Party, namely that we are giving direction to what is called the regulatory authorities here in Norway, but which are to be adapted to EU network plans and plans for regional networks, and that RME will only have the job of doing what the EU has decided to do, and of introducing it in Norway. No guarantee can be given for what is going to happen. Norway has no exception, Norway has no precision. There's nothing in debt -- it's just talk, it's nothing but talk. I myself have been the Council of State and know that sending a letter to the EU means nothing until you have had a meeting, until you have received a written reply. Where is the written answer? Where is it that says that the exception you should have is actually going to apply? It does not exist.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-28.ana.ud345e820	Absolute demands, it was said. A statement to the EU was what was to be made, but some commitment is not in a political tradition. Everyone knows that in a market, it's the juice that counts. It is also worth noting that some EU members still seem to believe that free movement does not have consequences – it is the rights of workers, Norwegian collective agreements or that now in the Nav case, where one seems to have missed the fact that the EEA area is one market for the four freedoms: goods, work, capital and services. The EU is not about social cushioning; it is about the free flow of market forces to create a single market. The same is true of energy policy. The target is free movement. Some people call it a market that works, I hear here now, an energy market that works, but the goal is therefore free to smooth out the price and conditions of competition. No account is taken of local needs or the specificity and competitive advantage of each country. Trade in energy illustrates this well. In Norway, clean hydropower has served us well as a means of building up powerful industry and competitiveness. The EU's objective is to smooth out the energy price. It will weaken Norwegian competitiveness and strengthen, for example: German competitiveness because the price will rise here and down in Germany. It's a smoothdown that's the goal – and a fair market. Where, then, is the competitive advantage of clean energy at a low price? It'll be gone. The passivity of Norwegian interests that has been shown since Stortinget dealt with the matter in the spring of 2018 is striking. I also have to tell our friends in the Workers' Party that I am a little disappointed that you do not stand up to your ultimate demands to a greater extent. At least it should be expected that there might be support for minority proposals No. 2, i.e. to have guarantees. I also record that in these ultimate demands that were made, it was said that the Energy Act would be amended, so that all inter-national connections would be State owned. So while the NorthConnect concession treatment is ongoing, we have not received a new bill that meets the demands of the Workers' Party on the reversal of the Energy Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-28.ana.ud345e831	The representative, Schou, said instead that the proposal of the Central Party is an attempt at rematch. Yes, we're trying to get the Storting to reverse the very unwise decision to join Norway's third energy market package. We had hoped that the Stortinget – and especially the parties that have made so-called inevitable demands to be involved in this matter – would have taken on board that since the Stortinget made its decision on 22 March last year, no attempt has been made by the Norwegian Government to obtain any kind of commitment from the EU, no political declaration as the Icelandic people have presented. It is quite right, as the Council of State says, that a political declaration made by the Icelanders is not legally binding. That's absolutely right. That's exactly why we from the Center Party say that it's the least one would have done when one goes in to give sovereignty to vital parts of Norwegian energy and industrial policy. At least one must ensure that the so-called mandatory requirements of the National Government of the Workers' Party relating to the Third Energy Market Package, as they write on their own websites, are included in a statement addressed to the EEA Committee and signed by the EU and EFTA countries, as a basis. But even such a joint declaration is not a guarantee for the future, for the EEA Agreement is a so-called dynamic agreement. This means that new directives are emerging, and new interpretations are emerging, which make Norwegian sovereignty increasingly less and less vital for Norway. Formal by re-examining the case: Article 92 of the EEA Agreement states that the Joint Body which one has between the EFTA countries and the EU/EEA may address all issues which cause difficulties. It's free for both parties to do that. We can do that from the Norwegian side, like the other EFTA countries. The EU can do that. It cannot be that the EEA Agreement should only be a step in the right direction, where the European Union is constantly to make its new interpretations, its new demands, while we should never have the opportunity to address any issues that cause difficulties. In that case, the space of action that someone is trying to give the impression of is a complete illusion. We have to make sure to take back national control.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-28.ana.ud345e840	We are left to discuss the exact same and the same position from all parties. I am very happy that we have finished this matter, and that we agreed on what we did. On behalf of the Labour Party, I would like to say that the eight points we got into the agreement with the Government Parties and the Environmental Party of the Greens were good. They stand, and of course we expect the Council of State to run the race that we've agreed on. It's a little interesting when SV gets on the track and says these are some terrible things. I think SV is a climate party and a party that works internationally and is engaged in cooperation. This is a matter that is actually very important to the climate. ACER is an organisation – a directorate, in a way – that will contribute to cooperation on network coding, etc. That is not the policy. It lies with each government. In Norway, we made changes to the Energy Act that we agreed on in this case. It's working on it. I also notice that both Moxnes and Gülsvik are most concerned about trying to get NorthConnect to become a part of ACER, but there is a mixture that does not belong here. It is not in ACER that access to cables is to be adopted. It's here at Stortinget, but it's Council of State Freiberg who's responsible for doing it. The assumptions we made in that agreement are clear, and Moxnes took them up. It is that Statnet is to have monopoly, experience is to be gained from the cables that are going to be built and that have been adopted to be built and, of course, it must be socio-economically viable to do so at all. It's premise, but it's not right for us who are representatives, to go into the concession treatment. We've made political assumptions, and then it's the Department and the Council of State that are responsible for completing this. We'll follow very closely. So to the sovereignty, which is always a fantastic top point for the Center Party in this case. You're very busy finding out that we're depriving ourselves of sovereignty. No, we haven't actually done that. It was in this case for a little while that we wondered if part of the RME was such that we said something of the sovereignty. It was checked, it was rigged rounds in the department, and the law department has been quite clear that we are not saying anything of the sovereignty of this matter. In fact, you have to deal with it – not lie. That's not good.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-28.ana.ud345e851	The representative Sigbjørn Gülsvik has spoken the word twice before and gets the word to a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-28.ana.ud345e856	I think it is quite strong when the representative Norderhus accuses other staging representatives of lying. What is already in the third energy market package is that ACER has the power to make decisions, among other things. where there is disagreement between countries about the cost allocation of new cables, new foreign connections. ACER has already done so, including: in relations between Poland and the Baltic States. One also has authority with regard to the content of the cables used. The fourth energy market package goes further. ACER shall be granted new powers of attorney. Statnet shall develop ten-year network development plans in line with the EU project. One may also be overwhelmed with the intention of altering those plans. These are consequences – concrete consequences. For this with climate: Yes, it is important for the climate, it is precisely that we use the power in Norway to build industry. The world's purest industry we have in Norway – we should develop it further and say no to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-28.ana.ud345e864	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-28.ana.ud345e882	As the president now said at the beginning of the interpellation, sepsis is one of the most common causes of death in Norwegian hospitals. The consequences may be fatal if you do not receive treatment quickly. Worldwide, as I said, 6 to 10 million people die every year, and 1 million of them are newborns. In Norway, sepsis is responsible for 4 pst. of all hospital stays. There are not quite accurate figures, but available health data from Norwegian hospitals suggest that more than 10,000 patients receive sepsis every year and that 3,000 to 5,000 of them die. The knowledge of those who survive is poor, and we know too little about how it goes with them after they have been discharged from the hospital. What we know is that among those who survive sepsis, many have to live with tendon damage, such as reduced cognitive function, worsening of chronic diseases, impaired physical function and pain. It affects quality of life and working capacity. The monitoring of patients’ vital functions is therefore important to detect sepsis as early as possible, according to those who can. Rapid and targeted treatment is essential and may, in some cases, prevent the development of the disease itself. Delayed initiation of appropriate treatment in sepsis increases mortality. The patient safety programme has developed intervention packages and learning networks for early detection and treatment of sepsis in emergency and bedside facilities. These measures are defined by a national, complex group of experts and are based on both experience and new international research and knowledge. In their preparation, the expert group has worked on the principles that the measures should be implemented in all Norwegian hospitals, that they should target patients who are at risk of developing sepsis early in the course, or who have been diagnosed with sepsis or septic shock, and that they can be implemented within existing framework conditions and structures. That's good. The undersigned does not believe in any way that anything is happening in the field. On the contrary, Norwegian hospitals have worked systematically and well to detect and treat patients with sepsis, in particular following the national supervision of sepsis in the emergency wards. Nevertheless, it is obvious that we can and should do more and not least seek better knowledge that can provide better advice on prevention. Research shows that BMI, cardiovascular disease, smoking, alcohol, anxiety and depression increase the risk. A new finding is that having too low or very high levels of iron in the body can also be used for sepsis. Representatives from the Cancer Association told this year during Arendalsuka that cancer patients are at a 10-fold higher risk of sepsis. Cancer is a tough enough disease if you're not going to have sepsis, and if you get it, you might not get an effective treatment either. Cancer association is concerned that many do not receive effective treatment because of the fear of antibiotic resistance. Of course, we share the concern about increasing the prevalence of antibiotic resistance, because it could mean that the cancer treatment we are offering today is being reduced for decades. The less antibiotics we use, the less risk it is of resistance. But if we need antibiotics, we need an effective antibiotic. Patient stories known through the media also make impressions, and several of us have read about Gry Hege. Gry Hege Henriksen had worked day and night before she finally took a Christmas holiday in 2016. She began coughing while she wrapped up the Christmas presents and prepared the Christmas holidays. It only lasted a few hours from Gry Hege had begun to feel really miserable, until she went into a coma. She woke up again after four weeks, and then the doctors said that she was lucky who had at all survived. She had a sepsis that probably started with a pneumonia. Unfortunately, Gry Hege had to amputate both hands and feet. In our health policy community here at Stortinget, we have also experienced that the disease is experiencing severe and unexpected. Stig Slürdahl, Managing Director of Health Mid-Norway, attended a discussion on sepsis during Arendalsuka this year. He said that data show that the rate of cases in Norwegian hospitals is very different: ‘I don’t think there are large differences in the population. Here we have enough work to do in healthcare». In Trondheim, SINTEF and NTNU have established a Gemini Centre for Sepsis Research at St. Olav's hospital to meet the challenges of the disease, with knowledge. We also have a group in Bergen who have studied sepsis in Norway, and in addition we have several good professional environments in infectious medicine in the rest of the country. Sepsis is difficult to detect early, mainly because the symptoms are diffuse. In hospitals, there are few other diseases that are so expensive to treat. It's because patients stay lying down for so long. Society could save a lot of money by increasing efforts throughout the disease course of patients with sepsis. There are, however, concrete measures that could save us a lot of money and suffering. Based on the experience of sepsis research professionals, an information campaign to raise people's awareness of sepsis will be a good measure. We also need decision support systems for faster diagnosis and follow-up programmes with follow-up research on treatment to learn more about how these patients are doing. Globally, the burden is so great that the World Health Organisation, WHO, adopted a resolution against sepsis in 2017. The Member States include, inter alia, the United States of America, the United States of America and the United States of America. establishing strategies to prevent, diagnose and treat sepsis and to provide access to the necessary health care for sepsis survivors. Norway should also listen to the WHO. A national strategy for sepsis should be looked at to the greatest extent, both in terms of its design, the professional environments to be involved in its preparation and the target. Talk, smile, promise -- very many of us today know the most common symptoms of stroke, and some of us have also done these exercises in case of suspicion. This simple test has probably saved many lives. But do some of us really know the symptoms of sepsis, and do we know them well enough? Many will probably answer no to these questions, so both individuals and health services need more knowledge about sepsis.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-28.ana.ud345e913	I would like to thank the representative for addressing an important discussion on a topic that is crucial for quite a number of patients in our healthcare system. Sepsis, referred to as ‘blood poisoning’ in the public mouth, is a life-threatening organ failure caused by a likely or proven infection. Patients with sepsis often need long-term and extensive hospital treatment, and they currently consume about 3.5 pst. of the bed capacity. Every fourth patient who gets sepsis dies. This is an unacceptable high number. There is therefore a lot to gain from having good routines to both detect and treat sepsis. In all health regions, this is now working well. The mortality rate of sepsis increases rapidly if it takes time for the patient to receive antibiotic treatment. Therefore, it may be necessary to increase the knowledge of permanent doctors, in medical care, in nursing homes and in the general population about early signs of sepsis. The World Health Assembly adopted a resolution on sepsis in 2017, inviting Member States to include prevention, diagnosis and treatment of sepsis in Member States’ health services. Furthermore, the resolution called on countries to develop their own strategies or to incorporate measures to strengthen infection prevention and control programmes in existing strategies. Member States are therefore not required to produce a specific document. What is required is that the prevention and treatment of sepsis should be based on the professional recommendations of the World Health Organisation and that this is adequately defined in documentation governing the national healthcare system. In 2016–2018, the State’s health oversight carried out a nationwide oversight of the somatic emergency services of health businesses and the identification and treatment of patients with sepsis by their recipients. The supervisors concluded that there were offences in all hospitals that were investigated. Although the management of healthcare companies was aware of the importance of prioritising patients with sepsis, they had not provided for this in practice. It was particularly serious that patients with life-threatening organ failure had to wait irresponsibly long before receiving antibiotic treatment. All hospitals that had supervised were followed up with two journal reviews eight and fourteen months after the supervision itself. They were to identify whether healthcare companies had made sufficient improvements in order to ensure patient safety. The status after the journal review was that most health professionals had worked well to follow-up after supervision, and that the time until the patient’s first medical supervision and antibiotic treatment had declined. But the results were not satisfactory everywhere, and the state now follows up these hospitals further. Early detection and treatment of sepsis was an input into the patient safety programme, which went parallel to the nationwide sepsis surveillance. A package of measures was created, including: included early clinical evaluation, use of cutting tools for risk assessment and diagnosis and rapid initiation of antibiotic treatment. The patient safety programme has now been completed, but health businesses have been given the task of continuing the work of the programme. The Ministry of Health and Welfare has recently issued an action plan to improve the protection of infectious diseases, which will also contribute to strengthening programmes for the prevention and control of infection. Two out of eight targets in the plan are for bloodstream infections and how results are to be measured. The Health Directorate is updating the guidelines on antibiotic use in hospitals, in close cooperation with healthcare. The chapter on sepsis is one of the first to be revised, and is expected to be completed in the next year. All health regions have informed the Ministry of the discovery and treatment of sepsis in hospitals, and there is now a great deal of work to be done everywhere to follow up the nationwide surveillance. Health Mid-Norway reports that all healthcare businesses have implemented the ‘Interim detection and treatment of sepsis’ package in relevant clinics and departments and that this is being followed up. St. Olav's hospital is actively involved in the work – which was also attended by the representative – at the Gemini Centre for Sepsis Research at NTNU. This happens, among other things: through a project entitled «Genetics and artificial intelligence shall improve the survival of sepsis». The Centre has more than 15 researchers with different backgrounds and is built through close cooperation between St. Olaf's Hospital, Health Nord-Trøndelag, NTNU, SINTEF and Yale University in the United States. Health West has long worked with early detection of sepsis. Extensive reorganisations have been carried out with better staffing and more competence in emergency receptions, better priority for patients according to the medical severity, and measures have been put in place to capture deterioration in the patients involved. Hospitals use recognised cutting tools for this purpose. Health supervision has closed supervision in all health establishments in Health West because they considered that management had taken care of detected abnormalities and comments. In Health Nord, the Finnmark Hospital has introduced cutting tools in both emergency and medical beds, and the results are presented to the various departments at regular intervals. The group working on this improvement field received the 2017 specialist prize from the Finnish Hospital. Prehospital clinic at the Nordlands Hospital has established a procedure for the prehospital start-up of antibiotics for patients who are suspected of sepsis and who have more than one hour of travel to the hospital. All ambulance staff have received training and there has been a joyful increase in prehospital antibiotic treatment. In Health South-East, regional learning networks are established for early detection and treatment of sepsis in the patient safety programme, both in emergency and in bed. All health establishments and all private, non-profit hospitals in Health South-East participate. At the last regional gathering, all health businesses and hospitals could refer to measurable improvements in antibiotics given within an hour in patients with suspected sepsis. Early detection and treatment of sepsis, following the nationwide supervision of the Health Authority in 2016–2018, has been a major concern. All healthcare businesses have taken action and many have achieved significant improvements. An action plan has also been drawn up to improve the protection of infectious diseases, and the Health Directorate will update guidelines on antibiotic use in hospitals. As regards the rehabilitation of patients who have undergone sepsis, the needs will vary and the supply needs to be adapted individually. The ability of municipalities to provide rehabilitation services will be enhanced following the implementation of the rehabilitation and rehabilitation plan. There may be reason to consider further measures in municipalities, and not least in the general population, to raise awareness of early symptoms. I want to keep track of developments in this area and continuously evaluate actions from national level in close cooperation with the professional community. In this context, we will also continuously assess whether a national strategy is a good and appropriate instrument for achieving even better results in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-28.ana.ud345e957	Thank you very much to the Council of State for a good and thorough response to the interpellation. There is a lot of good work done, there is no doubt about it. But this is a major challenge not only in Norway, but also worldwide, so it will be important that the strategic job takes care of both prevention, diagnosis and treatment, as the WHO resolution clearly commits us to, and that we also develop more knowledge on a planned basis for better health care for those who survive the disease. Now the Council of State said he was going to consider a national strategy, so I'm really pretty excited about it. You can understand, if you look at it a little in general, a reservation against making your own strategies for single diseases, and also against dragging individual diseases into the main hall and debating them. But just when it comes to sepsis, prevalence is great, it is sepsis, and – perhaps the most important of all – this is a disease without a strong patient organisation. Although many get sick, approx. Ten thousand a year, the patient's voice only comes out in the strong single stories in the media – those who lose their lives, of course, we hear nothing from – and it's a dynamic that makes us politicians with health policy issues have an extra big responsibility. The work that I feel the Council of State is saying is going on, and as they consider to intensify, I hope I can involve several of our good professional environments in the country working with different approaches to the disease – both technology companies that have an exciting technology to detect sepsis earlier in the course, and exciting research that can give us some good advice on how to prevent this. I say thank you so much.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-28.ana.ud345e968	I would like to thank you for a pleasant response. I believe this is a topic that is really worth discussing in Stortinget, given what the representative here points to. This is, of course, an area that has been the basis of national supervision that has produced very discouraging results, but I feel that health services in this area have really addressed this and are working well and systematically with the follow-up. It is not always national supervision necessarily leading to as much work as we see in this area. It might be related to the fact that the hospital departments that work on these kinds of themes may be the departments that are most used to working systematically and with routines when they work with improvement. And we also see that out of many of the results. Then there is a problem that the representative addresses that I agree that we do not have good enough answers to today. That's what's about information to the population, the delay in people's awareness of what are the symptoms here, and what to do. The parallel to the stroke campaign is a good parallel, but also the primary health service — medical, fixed — to assess whether there are any measures that can be taken to avoid the delaying element occurring in the patient and in the primary health care now that hospitals, especially emergency services, seem to have established better procedures. There is something we need to consider further – whether there is a need to do something of our own in that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-28.ana.ud345e975	Thank you to the interpellant for addressing a theme that I think is important to discuss in the Stortinget, because it's both about a disease and a disease group and about what kind of structures we're going to have in the healthcare service to be able to both prevent and get the best possible results. The point is that there are too many people who die of sepsis in Norway. It's life that could have our fears. It's also a part that gets sepsis as part of a natural process of death, that's at the last stage, but it's not the ones that we're talking about here today. The question is whether we need a national strategy. I also believe that the Council of State gives a good description of actions taken, and that one can assess new national measures to focus more on this area. Yes, a lot of things have happened in the health service lately. I agree with what is said that there is a need for increased knowledge both in the general population, in the regulars and medical services, etc., but I would like to say that we are now talking a lot about what is happening in the emergency room. It's in the emergency room patients get their first meeting with the hospital. It's where the important decisions are taken, whether the urgency, the need for research, treatment, further observation, and it's important to look at what we can do even better to capture patients, and to get them treated early enough. Several have pointed to this nationwide oversight that was very discouraging. All healthcare professionals were found to be missing and incapacitated. Patient safety was not maintained in healthcare establishments, delaying medical supervision and investigation and antibiotic treatment was an ongoing finding, and the guidance was not good enough to maintain patient safety. The oversight also showed that the system of deviation had not been properly implemented. I am concerned that health care professionals should improve their practices, so I have to report when accidents occur. The Health Inspectorate's report on this showed that in some health care establishments there was no culture to report non-compliances, and in other health care establishments, non-conformity was reported, but the guidance did not follow up the messages and did not use them in improvement work. This I think is very worrying. Another supervisory theme was co-occurrence conflicts. It goes without saying that there are often co-conflicts in emergency reception. In half of health care providers, the Health Authority found that co-occurrence conflicts were a risk factor that could lead to compromised patient safety and that patients with sepsis were not caught. We have had several cases both in reports from the Riksrevision and in other supervision that show that there is considerable pressure on Norwegian emergency services. We have also had messages, including: from Stavanger and from Haukeland Hospital – there were unfortunate events that occurred in Haukeland Hospital. Obviously, we can't talk about getting an improved treatment strategy for sepsis without talking about the basic staff in emergency rooms, because it's actually a context. This also needs to be followed up by the guidance provided by healthcare professionals. So I'm optimistic about the fact that the last supervision led to and will lead to learning. Among other things, I have See a notice that the Helgeland Hospital had taken hold after this supervision, and they were given a strong prognosis that a treatment was received within one hour – that was 44 p.m., and then it was increased to 82 p.m.. afterwards. But we've been overseeing before, in 2007, and the feedback from that was that we weren't good enough to learn. I hope that this will happen now, and I would like to welcome new measures, if they are needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-28.ana.ud345e990	Sepsis is a serious and fatal – not diagnosis, but group diagnosis. It's a complex form of disease we're talking about today, but it requires rapid diagnosis and treatment. As the representative Toppe is inside, it is also dependent on the emergency reception that has been prepared and a medical watch system that has been prepared. This is most acute medicine, in most cases. We see that many health companies have improved their treatment of sepsis, but there is a difference – we hear that both today and have read in the past – in how this is handled in the various health businesses. Well, that's exactly what this interpellant is about. Whether the solution is a strategy or to continue the work, I'm not going to do so much. At least we can see that all the regional health companies have taken up the findings of the supervision from 2016 to 2018. That's good, because sepsis takes life. There's a lot of research on sepsis spacers, especially in the direction of the Gemini Center, that the interpellant knows well, and we also see that antibiotic resistance is a threat here. It's a general threat, but it's also, of course, a big threat to sepsis spacers. Antibiotic resistance guidelines are under review. They have to be revised, and not least we have to be much tougher about Norwegian doctors, among other things. infectious doctors, follow these guidelines. We see that antibiotic use is falling, and we are reaching the target of reduction that was set, but we are totally dependent on the guidelines being followed. At the same time, general protection against infection and vaccine work in Norway need to be intensified to reduce the infection pressure in the population. For most, sepsis is an obscure concept. It's not as simple as saying that it's a blood poisoning. There are more diverse organ complications as a result of a severe infection. Patients who have experienced sepsis and survive it often get permanent but become weakened. We see that young people who were viable get very sick and get their lives put on hold because of sepsis. For very ill patients, patients who are dying, sepsis may be part of a natural process of death. Once again, that Toppe was in: it's not the patients that we're talking about here. So we can't look at sepsis as a disease we're going to eradicate, but what we can do is do more to stop these unnecessary deaths and violent pathogens among young and viable people who are suddenly hit. It's about opening out those patients who get sepsis unnecessarily, suffering unnecessarily from sepsis, or unnecessary death from sepsis. We have examples ourselves, as we know well, that have been out of play this year because of sepsis, and it's very strong to meet people who because of an infection get cognitive challenges and challenges with other things, in physical health. This costs money, and this costs life. The key is increased knowledge both among doctors, among patients and out in hospitals. As the Council of State was in it, we see that, for example, in the Health West, it is now routine to take blood culture and start growing on patients entering. But not all hospitals are there. It also requires preparedness when it comes to laboratories, and this is important and demanding. Personally, I believe that continuing to work as today is the way to go. We are in a good track, the hospitals have taken seriously the findings that were made in the supervision. But I want to thank the interpellant for addressing this important question, and for the personal commitment she has in this area. I would like to thank her for taking the committee to Trondheim and showing us the work that was done there, and I would also like to thank the Council of State for a reassuring and complementary response to the interpellation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-28.ana.ud345e1009	A good debate doesn't need a very long list of speakers, if the participants are very good. So I want to thank those who have participated in this interview, especially the last speaker, Stensland, who describes that there are some myths here. Sepsis — or blood poisoning, which is the popular expression — has often been referred to as an old man’s disease. The reality is that too many young people are affected, and it makes it even more important that we manage to meet this a little more effectively. I think what's one of our advantages here in Norway is that we can research good data. To find good answers, access to good data is important. And just to keep us a little bit longer in Trøndelag, it's always tempting: in the North-Trøndelag, the infectious doctors have registered sepsis spaces in a quality register in the last 20 years. All patients who have received treatment for sepsis at the Hospital Namsos, the Hospital Levanger and the Hospital of St. Olav are thus registered. This is a pretty big patient population, I think it's 6,000 -- but I have to make a little reservation that I remember the number correctly. In addition, a relevant proportion of these patients are also participants in the HUNT study. That means we have data and biological tests from these patients both before and after they got sick. A commitment a country that Norway should undertake is to take responsibility for a major global challenge, which can provide responses that other countries that have not come as far and work as we do can benefit from in their healthcare. I have previously asked the Council of State to establish a national sepsis register. In order to get those registers, you have to go on duty, and I know that you also work with them from hospitals and through regional health companies. I would like to thank you for a very good debate and a clear common ambition, and then we are eagerly waiting for the continuation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-28.ana.ud345e1020	I would also like to thank you for a good discussion, or perhaps more conversation, on this important topic. As the interpellant is involved, it is possible to establish a national quality register for sepsis, on the initiative of the professional community via the health regions. It is also important to say that there is already a lot of information available on patients with sepsis in both the Norwegian patient register and the Norwegian intensive registry, which includes all patients with sepsis who are admitted to the intensive care units in hospitals. I will conclude with a small call for prevention: all over 65 years of age, the Swedish Institute of Public Health is encouraged to take a pneumococcal vaccine to prevent pneumonia, which is a very common cause of sepsis. Vaccination is also a good preventive measure in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-28.ana.ud345e1027	The debate on substance is closed. 6 is over. The size pauses until voting time. 14th @item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-28.ana.ud345e1050	The size should now vote on the matters on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-28.ana.ud345e1167	All in all, eleven proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. That is the proposal No. 1-11, from Audun Lysbakken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The President shall state that proposal No. 4 during the debate was changed. Suggestion 1 reads: ‘The Government requests the cessation of all exports of Norwegian military material to States where the military and the other security apparatus are instrumental in systematic and serious human rights violations.’ Suggestion 2 reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to interpret criterion 2 of the U.D.’s export control guidelines for the human rights situation in the recipient countries more stringent than today and to ensure that Norway does not export military equipment to regimes responsible for widespread human rights violations.’ Suggestion 3 reads: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with a case that ensures that ATT Articles 6 and 7 are included in the law or regulation.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds in changed form: ‘The Government is asking for the end-user declaration and re-port clause to become a practice in all exports of defence equipment, including to NATO countries and close allies.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The size asks the government to explore the possibility of developing control mechanisms that allow enforcement of retail declarations.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government requests the publication of reasons for refusal and acceptance of licence applications to countries outside NATO.’; Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to strengthen the transparency of Norwegian export controls and to explore the possibility of introducing a similar practice as that in the Netherlands, where Parliament is publicly informed of the grant of export licences over a certain sum detailing the evaluation of criteria against the application, except for the nearest allies, within two weeks of the application being granted.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to suspend all exports of Norwegian military and multifunctional goods to the countries participating in the intervention in Yemen.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to review exports that have taken place since the intervention in Yemen started, in order to ensure that Norwegian material has not been used in the Yemen war.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asking to keep the Stortinget informed of changes in export practices to the countries participating in the Yemeni coalition.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to stop all exports of Norwegian weapons and armaments to Turkey until the end of the acts of war against Kurdish territories in northern Syria.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-28.ana.ud345e1278	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, from Sigbjørn Gælsvik on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to refer Norway to the third energy market package rather than to new treatment on the Stortinget.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to negotiate a joint declaration with the EU in line with the Norwegian position as expressed in the Agreement between the Labour Party, the Right, the Progress Party, the Left and the Green Party on the accession to the Third Energy Market Package of the European Union, for decisions in the EEA Committee.’ Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up. Red has announced support for the proposals. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-28.ana.ud345e1312	In Case No. 6 no voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-28.ana.ud345e1337	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
