ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-24.ana.ud98e42	The representative, Siv Mossleth, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-24.ana.ud98e47	On behalf of the representatives Bengt Fasteraune, Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen, Jenny Klinge and myself, I find it necessary to make a proposal to investigate the impact of phase-out of the copper network.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-24.ana.ud98e52	The representative, Marit Arnstad, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-24.ana.ud98e57	On behalf of the representatives of Sandra Borch, Siv Mossleth, Heidi Greni, Geir Pollestad and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for compliance with the provisions of the collective agreement on grazing priority areas and breeding areas for bears.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-24.ana.ud98e62	The representative of Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-24.ana.ud98e67	On behalf of the representatives Kjersti Toppe, Marit Knutsdatter Strand, Heidi Greni, Per Olaf Lundtägen and myself, I would like to make a proposal to legislate for health studies to be carried out on the somatic and mental health of children in connection with all care acquisitions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-24.ana.ud98e72	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-24.ana.ud98e90	The matter being dealt with here has not been outside the regulatory period, i.e. 48 hours. On the basis of Rule 46 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the Stortinget should nevertheless deal with this matter now. No objection has been raised against the President's proposal. – It is then deemed to have been adopted. No one has asked to speak on the matter either.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-24.ana.ud98e109	With new EU institutions, brexit and important issues on both the EU and our roadmap, this is a good time for the six-monthly presentation. Last year I asked the Stortinget to include several government councils in the presentation in the autumn in order to be able to go even deeper into some issues. This year, among other things, Brexit has made it possible for us to seek the participation of other government councils in the debate on 5 November, and this has been clarified with the Stortinget. Let me first give a few general views on the situation in Europe, before I go into some of the most important issues on the European political agenda, and the relevant EU and EEA issues. In recent years, we have seen a global trend away from multilateral solutions and frameworks. Populism and lightweight solutions have been, and are still, on the march. In Europe, however, there are signs that the populist wind is about to solve something. Several parties with pro-European messages made significant progress in the European Parliament elections. The right-wing populist parties also went forward, but less than many had expected. At the same time, there is still uncertainty in the European economy. Lack of ability to find effective solutions will continue to give room to those who want less committed international cooperation both in Europe and globally. In many cases, there are the same forces that want to disrupt democratic elections, undermine independent media and courts, and counter the construction of civil society – including in European countries. For Norway, therefore, cooperation with the EU on challenges here in Europe, but also on global challenges, is central to defending our fundamental values and interests. It is also essential to promote the safety and well-being of our and future generations. For the government, using the space for action in the EEA Agreement means to influence, not primarily to oppose legislation when it is adopted in the EU. For those opposed to the EU and the EEA, ‘use of the action space’ is often synonymous with applying the right of reservation. The government, on the other hand, is concerned with influencing regulatory development in line with Norwegian interests. We do this best by actively contributing to an early phase, not by reserving ourselves afterwards. I'll come back to some examples of this. The government pursues an effective European policy that fully exploits the opportunities offered by the EEA Agreement, not least to participate in expert groups under the Commission when the proposals are being drawn up. Brexit and the situation in the United Kingdom have marked, and still characterise, much of the news picture. Since the last presentation, the United Kingdom has been given a new government, which has agreed with EU negotiators on adjustments in parts of the outsourcing agreement. The substantial change in the agreement is that the so-called ‘backstop’ for the Irish border has been replaced by a new permanent arrangement for Northern Ireland. The new system means that the whole of the United Kingdom can leave the EU customs union. At the same time, the scheme requires all imports of goods into Northern Ireland, including from the United Kingdom, to be charged EU customs duties. Norwegian exports to Northern Ireland will therefore continue to be possible under the same conditions as the rest of the EU in the future, while exports to the United Kingdom will have to take place under the new UK legislation. Overall, this means that the Irish border will remain open, and that the customs frontier, VAT and regulatory border will in practice be in the Irish Sea, between the United Kingdom and the island of Ireland. The process of approving and implementing the agreement in the United Kingdom is still ongoing. This week, the UK House of Commons voted to implement the agreement, but against the proposed timetable for further treatment. Further consideration of the agreement has been put on ice for the time being, and it is uncertain how the further process in the United Kingdom will be. In parallel with Parliament's proceedings, the United Kingdom has asked the EU to postpone the withdrawal until 31 January 2020. It is up to the other Member States to grant such a postponement, but the signals coming from the EU yesterday were that a postponement would most likely be granted. A decision is expected in a short time. For Norway, a postponement will mean that we maintain the preparations for brexit both with and without agreement until we can say with certainty how this ends. We have agreements and arrangements in place for both outcomes. I presented these in my previous statement in May. Since then, we have in addition formally signed the agreement with the United Kingdom on fisheries management in 2019 in the case of ‘no deal’. This gives predictability out of the year. Negotiations with the EU, including the United Kingdom, on the fishing year 2020 have begun to a large extent. Norway has concluded a tripartite agreement on mackerel between the EU, the Faeroe Islands and Norway for 2020. We will also be negotiating a separate mackerel agreement with the EU for 2020 in a short time. On the Norwegian side, it is a prerequisite that a non-agreement brexit will not change Norway’s share in the mackerel agreements, regardless of any new distribution key between the United Kingdom and the EU. In March, the government adopted regulatory changes aimed at ensuring Norway’s access to medicinal products by means of non-agreemented brexit, thereby safeguarding the lives and health of the population. The Government now assesses the need for further measures in the regulation relating to the supply of medicinal products. Given the uncertain circumstances, I believe that we are prepared for the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the EU as far as it can be done for Norway. However, it is important to remember that what is perhaps even more important now remains: what kind of conditions the United Kingdom should have for the EU in the future. It will also have implications for Norway's relationship with the United Kingdom. Whether brexit happens with or without an agreement, it's in our interest, and it's also our goal, to have as good and close cooperation as possible with the United Kingdom. The government is now working to identify the priority areas for the forthcoming negotiations with the United Kingdom, after Brexit, and we have close dialogue with both the United Kingdom and the EU. Ursula von der Leyen was elected to lead the European Commission for the period 2019–2024 before the summer. The other members of the Commission shall be approved by the European Parliament, after consultation of each Commissioner candidate. Following that appointment, the College of Commissioners is finally appointed by the Heads of State or Government of the European Council. There has been some high temperature during the hearings in the European Parliament. They ended earlier this month, and several of the candidates have had to resign. This has led to delays in the deployment of the new Commission. It was scheduled to take over on 1 November, but this is now suspended until 1 December. New EU management also means new opportunities for Norway. It is positive that the overall objectives of the new President of the Commission are broadly in line with the government's strategy for cooperation with the European Union, which we launched last year. We share her ambitions about the green shift, about social inclusion, increased competitiveness, digitisation, further development of the internal market, and not least: defence of the rule of law and democracy. We also see the need for Europe's voice to become clearer in the international arena, as Mr von der Leyen has mentioned. We have common values and common interests to defend. The members of the Government will quickly establish contact with Commissioners in their responsibilities when the new Commission is in place, and we will make Norwegian positions and good pan-European solutions visible. Norwegian interests must and will be safeguarded. The government will work actively to establish contacts in the new European Parliament, and I would encourage all the political parties to do the same. The Government’s strategy for cooperation with the EU 2018 to 2021 is based on four main pillars: Norway should contribute to an economically strong Europe, a free Europe, a safe Europe and a responsible Europe where countries cooperate to meet common challenges. We are now developing a series of position papers – based on the strategy – where we present our European policy priorities. The intention is to contribute to increasing visibility and awareness in the EU about our agreements with the EU, our contribution to European cooperation and Norwegian interests. The main target group is the EU institutions and policy makers both in Brussels and other EU capitals. We also work with the EU institutions to provide information on our positions on particularly important issues for Norway, such as: Arctic and Northern Territories. A survey of Norwegian interests both in Europe and globally requires alliance construction with countries where we have common interests and values. Then it's natural to start in the Nordic region. The Nordic countries have a strong community of values, and as open economies, we are totally dependent on respect for the legal and institutional framework that has been built up in the post-war period. In the summer, the Nordic Prime Ministers adopted a new vision for Nordic cooperation where climate, competitiveness and social inclusion are key priorities – priorities that go right into the European agenda and also show the relevance of a strong Nordic voice in Europe. And we experience that more and more people look to the Nordics and Germany. When the Nordic prime ministers met Angela Merkel in August, they agreed to deepen the Nordic-German cooperation. On 17 October, together with my Nordic colleagues, I met Germany's Foreign Minister Heiko Maas in Berlin to discuss how we can cooperate more closely to defend multilateral structures on which we all depend. This was also an important topic at the meeting last week between Prime Minister Solberg and Chancellor Merkel. After a long journey we now again see danger signals in both the global and the European economy. Developments are still positive in many European countries, but the IMF and other cuts the EU-wide growth forecasts. Increased trade tensions affect an export-dependent Europe. In addition, fears of adverse economic consequences of high levels of government debt in many countries. While the European Central Bank continues its expansionary monetary policy for the euro area, Member States have varying degrees of fiscal tools to complement. The Norwegian economy is still going very well, but a new European downturn can also affect us. If there are no agreements, there will be consequences for economic growth, mainly in the United Kingdom, but also in the EU. The OECD recently presented estimates that in 2021 British GDP could be around 2 pst. lower, while the corresponding decline in the euro area may well be half a percent lower. Most of the impact will already come in 2020. The EU is our main trading partner, and economic development in the EU is therefore of great importance to the Norwegian economy. An economically strong Europe is a prerequisite for us, together with the rest of Europe, to safeguard our security, promote our values and maintain a sustainable welfare society. This message is clearly set out in the government's strategy for cooperation with the EU. Our main message for the European economy is competitiveness, sustainability and high environmental standards. From the Norwegian side, it is particularly important to further develop the internal market for services and, in particular, to remove obstacles related to cross-border digital services. The Government will take advantage of the scope of action of the EEA Agreement and will work actively to ensure that Norwegian priorities become key elements in the further development of the internal market. In this context, we also stress the importance of preventing unfair competition, social dumping and labour crime. Work-life crime is a good example of how we use the EEA Agreement's space of action to introduce national rules and mechanisms. HMS cards, the clean-up authorisation scheme, pay and working conditions requirements and limitations in the number of public procurement contracts are concrete examples of this. The EEA Agreement has led Norway to implement many EU directives on workers’ rights in areas where we did not already have national rules. This has led to strengthened employee rights in several areas. In her speech to the European Parliament in July, Ursula von der Leyen said that she, as President of the Commission, wants to work towards a salary that is available to all in Europe. She has also stated that this can be achieved either through collective agreements or through regulated minimum wages, whichever is the tradition in each country. Although common European rules are a good thing in many areas, this does not apply to rules that interfere with wage formation. Neither the social partners nor the government want a minimum wage in Norway. The Norwegian system is based on collective agreements and that the social partners negotiate wages and salaries. The Norwegian working life model and tripartite cooperation are important to maintain. Governments are clear in the message that the fight for decent work in Europe must be conducted within the framework of different national models and traditions. On the issue of regulated minimum wages, the government and the parties will use the opportunities we have to promote our views, both directly and through the other Nordic countries. In August of this year, the INF Agreement was terminated. Agreements and institutions that have been central to peace and stability in Europe are under pressure. Norway will focus on the safety architecture in Europe. Cooperation serves our security absolutely the best. But we have to deal with multiple of the fixed points weakening. NATO is and remains the cornerstone of security policy. The alliance has contributed to a safe and secure Norway for over 70 years. International cooperation is being pushed from many sides, but the alliance has grown larger and stronger. It says a lot about the ties between the allies. Closer security cooperation in Europe cannot replace NATO, but it can build under — and in some cases complement — the alliance. Therefore, the government emphasises the further development of political dialogue and coordination with the EU, strengthen practical cooperation in Europe and ensure good conditions for the Norwegian defence industry. Military mobility is a good example. The pooling of European countries through PESCO cooperation to ensure that military forces can move more easily across the borders of Europe also contributes to NATO’s ability and credibility. The government will continue to work to ensure Norway's ability to participate in specific projects where it is in our interest. In September, Norway was addressed in the European Intervention Initiative. This initiative strengthens our interface with key European allies. At the same time, we hope that the initiative over time can help to strengthen Europe's ability to deal with crises. It will strengthen allied security and contribute to the burden-sharing between allies. Another important priority is to ensure good conditions for the Norwegian defence industry in the European market. Through the EEA Agreement, and as the only third country, Norway is part of the EU Defence Fund test scheme EDF. As part of any decision to participate, the government has worked to give Norway the opportunity to participate in that part of the fund aimed at multi-national material development and acquisition cooperation, where this is relevant to Norway, the Defence and our defence industry. Earlier this year, the Commission, supported by the European Parliament, recommended opening EDF to EEA and EFTA countries. We expect a final decision from the European Union only during the negotiations on the next long-term budget. I would also mention that Norway has offered to coordinate a project aimed at strengthening health preparedness and cross-sectoral cooperation in Europe through biological and chemical terrorism. The EU has agreed to Norway coordinate this work, and the Health Directorate has started work on the project. Let me then turn to the relevant EEA issues. First to finance: Participation in the EU's internal market for financial services is crucial for Norwegian business. The link to the European financial market ensures that Norwegian financial undertakings are free to establish and provide services throughout the EEA territory and that European undertakings can provide services in Norway. It is positive for Norwegian business, including for the Norwegian financial market. The financial supervision has broad and good contact with the financial supervision of the rest of the EEA territory and participates as a member of the supervisory bodies, but without voting rights. The experience with this cooperation is good. The EEA structure implies a certain lag in rules to be incorporated into the Agreement. This is due partly to the scale and complexity of the legislation and partly to the effect that it took time to reach an agreement on adaptations to the EU financial supervision system. The slowdown has significantly decreased in the last year. Following agreement on the financial supervision system in 2016, a large number of EU acts have been incorporated into the EEA Agreement, but there are still 130 financial instruments not incorporated into the EEA Agreement. Norway is part of the EU internal energy market through the EEA Agreement, and the development of the EU Energy Union is therefore of great importance to us. In 2018, 25 p.m. of the EU gas consumption delivered from the Norwegian socket. The latest legal acts of the clean energy package were adopted in the EU just before the summer. The package will be central to achieving the 2030 energy and climate targets. We support the EU's ambition to develop a clean and competitive energy sector at the lowest possible cost. Norway is part of the European energy market, and in Nordic co-operation with EU countries Sweden, Denmark and Finland. It is in our common interest to have a positive development in this area. During the preparation of the clean energy package in the EU, we have been committed to taking care of Norwegian interests, including: to ensure a framework for efficient energy markets and policies further up to 2030. The preservation of Norwegian interests is also central when we assess the package in an EEA context. This is a comprehensive work that will take some time. The basic elements of Norwegian energy policy are clear. The EEA Agreement does not go along with this. We have and will continue to have full power over our unique energy resources and the design of our energy policy. The aim of the fourth rail package of the EU is to strengthen the competitiveness of the rail system in order to make rail passenger and freight transport more attractive. It will make an important contribution to more climate-friendly and environmentally friendly transport solutions in Europe and help to make train holidays a good alternative for more travellers. Competition is an instrument to provide customers with a better offer while using taxpayers' money as effectively as possible. The majority of Stortinget has supported the planned outsourcing of competition in Norway. Norway has introduced competition completely independently of the fourth rail package of the EU, precisely because the government believes it is the right policy. The fourth railway package provides for competition to be the general rule, but it is open to award contracts for the operation of passenger train services, as we do with Vy today, under certain conditions. The fourth railway package does not require the State to transfer ownership to the railway or the right to dispose of the railway policy. The State may continue to own the infrastructure and the Stortinget adopts the framework and direction for the operation and development of the railway. We see that when new train companies compete for traffic agreements with the public offer, we also open up new ideas about improvements in train provision. Norwegian authorities will continue to manage the safety and safety oversight of Norwegian railways. It is important to take part in the current pan-European development of the rail sector. We are in the process of establishing a working railway area in Europe where all businesses can relate to common safety methods, where rail services can be provided on equal terms, and where different parts and components can be purchased without unnecessary bureaucratic obstacles. We are actively and constructively involved in the work of the ERA European Railway Agency, and this is already helping to strengthen the pan-European work on the development of the safety culture in the railway sector. For too long, the national legacy systems have been preserved, and this has provided the railway with a stream of national specific requirements and approval processes that are lavish and prevent development and innovation. The government wants Norway to be an active contributor to this work. The mobility package is the EU’s major legislative package in the field of road transport. The aim of the package is to modernise the European transport and mobility system. Several of the proposals in the mobility package are important for Norway and have a strong impact on Norwegian interests. In the Granavolden platform, the government states that we will contribute to a clean competitive environment in the transport industry. Some proposals in the mobility package are challenging, in particular the revision of the Eurovignette, which is thus road pricing, and the amendment of the rules on market access and cabotage. The Norwegian position is that we don't want to liberalize access to cabotage. Norway is actively promoting Norwegian interests in this area together with similar EU and EEA countries in the Road Alliance. We want to influence the development of legislation. We want clear rules that can be effectively checked, including: through the rapid introduction of new technological solutions. The case is still being treated in the EU, and we are working to promote our interests together with like-minded EU countries. The EU adopted a new organic production legislation in May 2018. It covers, as is the case with current legislation, the entire production chain, including inputs, crop and livestock production, aquaculture, processing and control and labelling of organic products. The legislation also includes requirements for imports of organic products from third countries. We consider the legislation to be positive in terms of both simplifying today's ecological standards system, tightening control and reporting and Norwegian producers' ability to develop a larger range of organic products. We are in the process of assessing the new ecological legislation for inclusion in the EEA Agreement. This Regulation shall enter into force on 1 January 2021. There are now a number of areas of work on the design of complementary legislation. We want to influence the development of this legislation, and we are helping to ensure that it can be implemented in Norway, while respecting the principles of organic production. The regulatory package will replace the relevant EEA legislation. In the spring of 2018, the Commission presented proposals for the EU's long-term budget and framework programmes for the period 2021 to 2027. The proposal places greater emphasis on internal and external security, the environment, research, education, digitisation and other measures to increase competitiveness. The Commission’s proposals involve increased appropriations for the programmes in which Norway has a long tradition of participating. Horizon 2020 and Erasmus+ are clearly the largest in today's programme period and are responsible for approx. 85 pst. of the Norwegian quota. The Commission proposes that the appropriations for these programmes should increase by 45 pst, respectively. and 133 pst. in the next period. Participation in EU programmes is an important instrument for achieving national objectives in key areas. Participation in the EU research programme gives Norwegian professional environments access to international knowledge, competences and cooperation that contribute to professional development. A good example of this is when Norwegian researchers May?Britt Moser and Edvard Moser, who were awarded the Nobel Prize in Medicine in 2014 after receiving funds from, among others. The EU Framework Programme should provide advice to young researchers: ‘Search for EU funds. If you get a hit, this doesn't just mean money. The collaboration also gives you the opportunity to do research you couldn't do alone." The Government has expressed its intention to participate in the new Horizon Europe research programme, subject to the amount and the consent of the Storting. The EU’s long-term budget is not adopted, nor is consensus expected until 2020. We are now carrying out a thorough evaluation of the programme proposals. The Commission’s proposals provide for significant increases. From the government's side, we'll carefully evaluate which programs we're going to participate in. We will, together with Iceland and Liechtenstein, give final feedback by February 2021 about which we want to participate in. The government supports efforts to find pan-European solutions to a pan-European migration challenge. The pressure on migration towards Europe has decreased in comparison with the peak years 2015 and 2016, among others. as a result of European migration cooperation with major transit countries. The pressure on the various migration routes varies. The number of crossings across the central Mediterranean route from Libya to Italy has fallen significantly compared to last year. The same applies to the western route from Morocco to Spain, where the increase was significant in 2018. The last year, on the other hand, there has been a marked increase in arrivals in Greece from Turkey. The figures from the European Commission on 15 October show that up to now 50 000 arrivals in Greece have been registered this year. That's 32 pst. more than in the same period last year, and in particular the increase is great for arrivals by sea. As a result, the total number of asylum seekers and irregular border crossings in EU countries remains high. The same is unfortunately the mortality. The proportion of deaths in the Mediterranean to date this year, compared with the same period last year, has declined slightly, from approx. 1.4 pst. to 0,8 pst., according to the International Organization for Migration. It is likely that a greater proportion have been rescued by both Libyan and Turkish coastguards. As I said, the government supports efforts to find pan-European solutions to the migration challenge. When a permanent distribution mechanism is in place, Norway is set to take part in this responsibility. Germany, France, Italy and Malta provided a temporary distribution mechanism for migrants picked up on the central Mediterranean route at the EU's domestic ministerial meeting on 8 October. This means that Italy and Malta will open their ports. In return, other EU countries are expected to contribute to the redistribution of migrants arriving. The mechanism as presented on 8 October did not meet our demands. The same was true of our Nordic neighbouring country. But we will continue to participate in the discussions on solutions and mechanisms, which we have done all along. The government is pursuing a comprehensive and long-term policy to meet the migration challenges. Through our commitment to health, education, job creation and business development, we help improve people's chances of getting a better life in their own countries. Since 2016, we have contributed 200 million. to the EU Multi-stakeholder Fund for Africa. The government is in favour of contributing to a new funding mechanism when the mandate of the MIF expires in 2020. These measures help to address some of the underlying causes of migration. Norway contributes to the resettlement of refugees evacuated from Libya. We also strengthen the European Border Control and Asylum System through our support for Frontex and the European Asylum Agency, as well as EEA funds for Greece, Bulgaria and Romania. We also contribute EEA funds to Greece, Bulgaria and Romania with a focus on strengthening reception capacity, particularly in Greece. These measures weaken the incentives for irregular migration. At the same time, we take our share of the responsibility to alleviate the humanitarian burden in a situation of stranded refugees. In recent years, we have learned that the rule of law is under pressure in European countries. The rule of law is a prerequisite for democracy and fundamental human rights. It also guarantees the functioning of the internal market and the EEA and other regulatory cooperation. Mutual trust in each other's legal systems is the foundation on which both the EU and the EEA are based. Independent courts are fundamental to a well-functioning rule of law. In several cases, most recently this summer, the Court of Justice of the European Union has determined the duty of Member States to provide independent courts. Without independent courts, it is difficult for the State to guarantee the individual’s freedom and rights. This summer, the Commission presented a Communication proposing to strengthen the rule of law in the EU Member States by raising awareness, prevention and enforcement. The proposal includes the promotion of a rule of law culture, the establishment of a new rule of law mechanism for all Member States and a stronger focus on enforcement through the European Court of Justice. It is positive that the new President of the Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, wants to continue a fixed line and take this work further. I would also like to pay tribute to the Finnish Presidency of the European Union, which defends the rule of law as a priority task. We will strengthen our own efforts and actively promote rule of law issues both nationally, bilaterally and globally. Good governance is important to promote democracy and the rule of law. We will therefore also give priority to following up actions that can combat corruption and continue to follow up the UN Convention against Corruption. EEA funds shall contribute to social and economic cohesion in Europe. EEA funds are also important in promoting democracy and the rule of law. In the new period of EEA funding, we have concluded agreements on what the funds will be used for, with 14 out of 15 beneficiary countries. We are still negotiating with Hungary, where there remains to be an agreement on the management of the Civil Society Fund. It is an indispensable principle that the management of EEA funds for civil society should be independent of the authorities – regardless of the country concerned. So far, Hungary has not been willing to accept a solution that ensures that the management of civil society funds is independent of the authorities. The donors – Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway – agree on this as an indispensable principle. We continue to follow closely the development of civil society in all the countries of destination. We have agreed with several of these to give priority to cooperation on the justice sector and are in negotiations with, among other things. Poland on such a programme. The fight against climate change needs to be intensified, and all countries need to do their part. Youth all over the world takes to the streets and fights for the environment. Finland’s EU Presidency has worked on the EU’s low-emission strategy and has a high priority list of the discussion on climate neutrality in 2050. Norway delivers on its climate targets. The system and cooperation with the EU work. Therefore, it is natural for Norway to join the EU in reducing greenhouse gas emissions. The EU, like Norway, has the ambition to send its low-emission strategy to the UN in 2020. There is a strong majority of EU countries that climate neutrality should be the EU's objective by 2050. However, agreement on this requires unanimity, and Poland, Hungary, the Czech Republic and Estonia have so far gone against it. The debate is largely about the demand for increased funding to ensure fair migration from central European countries, while other countries are raising the message in the IPCC interim reports, which show that there is an urgent need for change in order to avoid global warming exceeding 1.5 degrees. The new President of the Commission has indicated that she will work to strengthen the EU’s 2030 climate change targets. The government is working for, and will encourage the President of the Commission to ensure that the EU's overall level of ambition is 55 pst. and we will report a reinforced Norwegian climate target in line with EU ambitions. Norway has ambitious targets to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and we work closely with the EU, which has a leading role internationally to achieve this. Tomorrow, the EEA Committee will include EU climate legislation for 2030 in Protocol 31 to the EEA Agreement. With this, we are laying the basis for a joint meeting of the climate target in 2030. Norway considers a key element to be the development of competitive zero-emission technologies. The government is therefore pleased that the EU's new research programme for 2021–2027 places particular emphasis on the development of zero-emission technologies. We are convinced that CO 2 capture and storage should be a central part of Europe’s long-term strategy to reduce emissions. It is therefore very good that CCS is getting more attention in Horizon Europe. The Brexit process has demonstrated how close we are together in Europe and how precious it is to withdraw from European cooperation. It also shows with all possible clarity that it is not in Norwegian interest to turn its back on the internal market and the EEA. Brexit means that the EU is losing an important Member State and we are an important partner in the EEA. At the same time, Brexit has helped to strengthen, rather than weaken, cohesion in the EU. The challenges facing the EU and Europe in the future may need to be given. How the solutions to the challenges will be remains to be seen. But the solutions are not going to be easy or national, as some populists would like us to believe. Europe is our continent, and the development of Europe must and must involve us. It suggests that we should seek more cooperation with our European neighbours, not less.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-24.ana.ud98e304	The President will propose that the statement on important EU and EEA matters be discussed in a subsequent meeting of the European Parliament. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-24.ana.ud98e318	I have been asked to come to Stortinget to make a statement about the situation in the police personnel and emergency services, as the minority in Stortinget wanted. I would like to draw attention to the fact that I want to limit the explanation to the minority that has requested, namely the situation of the crew and the emergency, and I also point out that during the autumn I will promote a big message about the follow-up to the reform of the local police. I therefore do not want to go into the actual police reform during this presentation. In 2013, the police budget in Norway was well above 12 billion. kr. There were under 8 000 policemen, 7 800 of whom were police officers in the districts, serving around the country. The experience of 22 July and other issues already discussed in the 2008 ‘Police against 2020’ report revealed major police capacity problems both in terms of investigation and police patrols, and not least in terms of preparedness. Already in 2008, there was a political ambition that there would be two policemen per thousand inhabitants in Norway. In order to meet this objective, training schools had to be increased. This government has followed up the ambition to have two policemen per thousand inhabitants in Norway during 2020. This has been done through a systematic build-up of police coverage over several years — from 1.71 in the fourth quarter of 2013 to 1.95 police per thousand inhabitants in the first quarter of 2019. From 2013 until September 2019, there have been less than 1,700 more police posts in Norway. About 1,500 of these years of police work are now around the police districts. Oslo is the police district with the biggest increase. They have had an increase of about 350 police posts, in addition to 50 lawyers and several civil servants since 2013. It has, among other things, also saw a sharp increase in the police resources of the emergency response team. This is a national response force, but they are also used actively in the patrol in Oslo, especially at night and weekend. We are not dealing with concrete figures on the response force, as this is information that we do not want to go out with public for security reasons, but in addition to the preparedness force, there is also a sharp increase in the police district itself. Oslo Police District now has a police coverage of 2.48 police per thousand inhabitants. The letter from the minority requests information on the extent to which the number of police posts is increasing. Common to all police districts is that they have received a clear strengthening of the number of police officers if one compares to 2013. South-East and East police districts were explicitly mentioned in the letter, and these police districts have been increased by 79 and 187 police year-on-year between 2013 and the first quarter of 2019 respectively. But how are the new resources distributed, and what do they do? We have figures that new posts between 2016 and 2018 are available as follows: 43 pst. Of these, we have gone to police operations, and this is where we are, for example. has the police patrol. 33 pst. of which they have gone to the investigation. 10 pst. has gone to administration. Administration are those who carry out passports, arms applications, educational matters, ID matters, etc. 7 pst. is dedicated to prevention, 2 pst. And then we have another bag post of 5 pst. Another myth that's got stuck is that it's the central levels, like Kripos, Økokrim and POD, that have increased the new resources. It is true that in the years 2015 and 2016 there was a cautious increase in the proportion of the police who worked in POD and special agencies. In 2015 and 2016 the police reform was planned, and then the proportion working in special agencies was 8.3 p.m. This is down to 7.5 pst. in 2019. By comparison, the share in 2014 was 7.6 pst. This means that 92.5 pst. of all police resources in Norway working in police districts. It's rare that we see such big shifts in crime trends that we've witnessed in recent years. Winning crime has always been the deciduous largest share of all crime in Norway, but that crime has fallen by 36pst since 2014. It's quite eye-catching, because it was the very largest position, and overall, crime in Norway has also sunk, by 15 pst. during the same period. Nevertheless, we can understand the reasons. The number of handkerchiefs, burglaries and persons has fallen dramatically since 2013, both because there has been a lot of good police work, and because 15,000 criminals have been transported out of Norway, but also because our behaviour has changed. Today we have much less cash on us. Vipps and payment cards have been fully taken over for the cash. We ensure our homes better, and mobile phones and other personal equipment are less attractive to steal because the technology has made products safer. But just technology challenges are also what are now the main challenges for Norwegian police, and here developments are raging fast. Let me try to put this in perspective: when I grew up, my world was much more like my father's world than the world my children grow up today, compared to my world. When my father grew up, it was TV, it was radio, it was telephone, and it was in my childhood too. But what my children grow up in is something completely different, it's a completely different technological world, where the United States and Europe are just a few keys away. Now progress is faster than ever. It took 78 years for 50 million people to use the phone. It took 38 years before 50 million had radio. When Pokémon Go came, it only took 19 days before 50 million used it. This raging technology development is also of great importance to the crime scene. Technology has led to a large reduction in traditional crime, but it has also opened up to another and serious crime, and it is the crime that has increased most, namely child abuse. Only since 2014 there has been an increase of 162 pst. in cases of abuse against children under 16 years of age. Internet and online solutions are used e.g. to press Norwegian boys and girls in their rooms to commit assaults against themselves. This is the cynical person behind it, they exploit insecure youths and trick them into giving nude pictures of themselves, and then they start extortion. Young people are threatened with the spread of nude images to e.g. Your Facebook friends. Think of being 16 years old and being exposed to something like that. A suicide reported by the man in a small town in Norway turned out to be a background in an extortion case where a mob of Moroccans sat in Morocco and pretended to be an adult girl. They thus tricked out a nude image of a young boy, and then started the extortion. Such a threat can be much worse for many young people than being robbed of a jacket or a mobile phone. That is why digital police work units have also been set up in all police districts, and it is now being set up – in districts – network patrols, and it will be in all districts. In that way the police also come near the younger guard, those who are not used to calling, but who are used to chatting. In this way, we build trust and open channels on the premise of youth. Technology has also opened up a whole new universe for criminals. Through Darknet you can get bought and sold almost everything of crime. Here, stolen credit cards are offered. Drugs are sold with both a quality stamp and a rating system from the sellers. Here, you can buy weapons, such as machine guns and hand grenades, and you can also get purchased assault material from children, or order a directly transmitted assault by a small child in the Philippines. A few keys on an Internet page – and tilts, you can move into a criminal universe without IP tracking. This is like eBay, just that the products are illegal. Here in the hall, maybe few people know how to do it, but I'm probably afraid that most 14-year-olds out there know well how to do this. If we're going to have a police officer who can solve and prevent crime, it no longer lasts with just the traditional police. We also need a police force that is able to protect children and young people, the elderly and businesses from being cheated, exploited and subjected to online abuse. We have to take over a crime scene where Egon Olsen has been replaced with Simon Leviev, the Tinder Scam. This is why the government has also invested in building up IT skills in every police district, for what is happening now across Norway, is happening in the boys' and girls' rooms, both in the small and in the large municipalities. But it's not just in the police districts that we've built up the IT capacity. Kripos has been strengthened in order to be able to investigate and assist the districts. We've created the cybercrime center NC3. They have a competence in IT-crime that's full of the best in the world. Although crime has fallen by 15 p.m. in total, the crime that has gone up is heavy crime, which takes a lot of the investigation resources. Time use on different issues varies greatly, from an average of five hours on a single winning case to 2,226 hours on killing or killing trials. So it's going to be 2.9 pst. by the cases handled by the police, binds up 32.5 pst. of the resources. These are the most serious and difficult issues, but we have to take them, because this is the crime that can keep a child trapped in a home with assaults, murders, terrible family violence, rapes and the biggest drug cases. Although technology is used for clean IT crunches, it is also usually a hybrid where technology is used to carry out traditional crime. A good example of this is youth violence, which in recent days has rightly received a lot of focus. Snapchat and social media are actively used to build up status, extort other youths with Christmas if they don't pay, and the like. Evidence is often found in the digital world. Then we have to have a police force that can penetrate the digital world, but also a police force that can clean up the street and run prevention. There's always a balance for the police what kind of crime you need to prioritize. It depends on trends. If there are many handicrafts, yes, then it must be given priority for a period of time, because people must feel safe. Youth crime is now a priority and additional resources are allocated to it both in 2019 and in the draft budget for 2020. Even if we have a new type of crime, there will also be a great need for the police on the ground and then in particular the police patrol, and there is also a lot of criticism here and the allegations of downsizing have come. First, I would like to stress that all districts have been given increased staff: there are 1,500 more police posts since 2013. But has this been done to strengthen the police patrol? The Directorate of Police has carried out a first Friday in February each year between six and seven o’clock in the evening, and it shows that the scope of police officers in police departments has increased from approximately 350 in 2013 to less than 570 in 2019. That's an increase of about 60 pst. Many people may suggest that the police have succeeded in moving resources from day to day, even from the middle of the week to weekend, as there is a greater need. We will provide a detailed analysis of this in the Storing Communication itself. Through an increased focus on intelligence, the police are now more able than before to plan where to deploy resources and at what time. This also has a clear and preventive effect that it, for example. is the visible police outside a venue where a concert is held – perhaps not always at the most famous outdoors, but the police get there because they have caught up that a group that often gets into trouble is going there. Or it may be young people who have agreed to fight through social media — then it is important that the police are there to prevent. When I myself was out with the patrol in Oslo, I was given a detailed explanation of why the police were present in the various places around Oslo. It was completely conscious, and it was the result of intelligence work in advance. Of course, the police are also bombing, because it is impossible to predict how criminal acts happen at any time, but if you manage to sit where crime is most likely to happen, then it will have a preventative effect. But this is also very difficult to measure, because how do you actually measure that a crime has not happened? The Oslo Police have, as mentioned, a careful assessment in front of each weekend of where they are going to be located, and it is now happening in all police districts to a greater or lesser extent, and it is one of the things that come about in the police reform. But this is going to be a little bit like football: you drive with the human marking of the incredibly good player on the opponent team, and that also increases the risk of others getting more space on the track. Although prevention is difficult to measure, I still feel confident that many criminal acts have been avoided by working according to such a method. At the latest today, we saw that the Stavanger police were out and said that they had at least averted a lot of mass battles. Are we still in the goal? Is everything rosy? No, it's not. The Norwegian police are in a transition phase, a demanding transition phase. New methods shall be implemented and personnel trained. When personnel are trained, they are not on patrol and are not engaged in investigations. These are dilemmas: Should you take time for necessary training and training? This is, of course, resource-requiring and thinning the resources. There is therefore a balance between quality and quantity — and sometimes quantity is what actually becomes quality. The greatest burden arose at the beginning of the reform. In the big message, we will look at the resource use for compulsory training and training. Time may be ripe to make some adjustments there to free up more resources for operational work. We are a long country, with fjords and mountains. Many places are sparsely populated. But crime is also happening there. How can a modern police force work better than before, and how do we get the increased quality into the ocean gaps as well? On-site police work is an important quality measure. Common criminal action may be another measure, which, in cooperation with the police in the field, ensures both more efficient operation and improved quality. At Leknes in Lofoten, we met an example of that a little while ago. Employees at Leknes University's office told me about a serious assault case. It was handled by police work on the spot. Not only that: the interesting thing was the story of local policemen telling about how they handled the incident in interaction with lawyers and investigators at the Bodø Police Chamber, who then contributed with investigation plans, competence, asked control questions and addressed the issues that could be handled better by the police chamber than by the police in the field, who were then concerned about dealing with the attack on the perpetrator and the follow-up of the perpetrator. Initial interrogation and track securing was carried out at the location of the vehicle. The food skills in Bodø were transferred directly to Leknes, and that in a very short time. The cooperation meant that the resources both in Bodø and at Leknes were completely disposed of, so that the capacity was used up to the first and most important hours in the initial phase of the case. What these engaged policemen told me was that cooperation ensured a better handling of the incident than you would have had in the past. The quality was simply higher. The risk of errors or glitches was reduced, and the event was all better than before. Well so important: this is how a modern police force ensures that those who live in District Norway are guaranteed a just as good follow-up from the police as those who live in the larger cities. But it is not enough for quality to be good. There must also be a police patrol. The focus here is on the canal offices that have been removed. Then I want to take an example from my own home country. The Lensmannskontoret in Aukra covers three municipalities, Sandøy, Midsund and Aukra, with one lenner, one lenner and one office worker. The county office with a police sign on the wall handled both civil duties and investigations. What the ‘old man’ told me was that he was told by the notion that it was he and the janitor who came and pulled out on an incident. It says to itself, really, how can two policemen be available 24 hours a day, year-round? In the case of the three municipalities, there has been a joint watch collaboration with Molde since 2003. As a result, standby does not disappear as the office lights turn off and the gentleman goes home. The inhabitants of these three municipalities are cared for by a 24-hour continuous crew from what we today call «Geographical holding Romsdal». This is what makes us able to have an accessible police 24 hours a day and every year also in the smaller cities and district Norway. That's why we have to realize that the office itself was not enough to handle these events. This needs to be handled by trained policemen with so-called IP approval. They are trained and equipped to intervene in events where people feel threatened. There are also descriptions of people who don't get help in time. We take this seriously, but we also have to recognise that misassessments can happen, or that the nearest police patrol is far away, as a result of their being on another mission. However, efforts have been reinforced by an increase in Category 3 response personnel, i.e. IP3, in police districts. Since 2013, the number of IP3 authorisations has increased from around 650 to 1,050 in 1st tertiary 2019. These are staff who receive more training and are equipped to cope with extra demanding situations in the police districts until they receive support from national aid resources, such as: in the case of kidnappings or terrorist acts. How are the results? Response time is the time it takes from the police to report an incident until the first police patrol is on site. Since 2015, the police have measured the amount of time they spend on such urgent tasks, i.e.: the most serious events, where life and health are at risk. The demand for police response is an expression of what the population can expect from their local police. Not everything is rose red here, but it's not black either, so some try to make it like that. The response time was measured for the first time in 2015. Since then, there have been many more tasks being measured, as this has been more incorporated into the procedures. It has been decided to demand what response time the police should stick to in 80 pst. of the urgent tasks. Different response time requirements have been made based on the location of the assignments. In agglomerations where there are 20,000 or more inhabitants, the response time requirement is set to 11 minutes. In the second tertial 2019, the police spent 12 minutes. In agglomerations where 2000–20000 inhabitants live, the response time requirement is set at 19 minutes. This was fulfilled in 2nd tertiary 2019. For agglomerations with 2000 or less inhabitants, the response time requirement is 30 minutes. In the second tertiary 2019, the police spent 31 minutes. This shows that we are not fulfilling, but that we are close to complying in all categories. But I do not think it is good enough that the response time requirements have not been met in two of the categories. Here the results have to be better, but there's no need to paint the damn wall. National response capacities are also a very important resource. Since 2013, the response force has been strengthened by 60 pst. several officials. The increased manning has made it easier to have part of the standby force available daily in 5 minutes. The emergency team can now also use the new police helicopters as a sniper platform. National response capacities will have increased capacity from 2020 and can then operate in large parts of South Norway in less than two hours, as a result of having received police helicopters with transport capacity. This means that the response team has finally become a proper national response group. When we're in the helicopter: one of the new police helicopters is equipped with top modern surveillance equipment and can assist districts in a short time throughout the eastern region – and in South Norway in a little longer time. With a much larger reach and transport capacity, this helicopter may carry out assignments in Hallingdal with, for example: dogs drivers during a relatively short period of time. In order to reduce the response time and increase the investigation capacity, in its 2020 budget proposal, the government has proposed a number of reinforcements by the Norwegian police. One hundred million. kr is earmarked for recruiting new police students who leave the Police College in 2020. Note that this earring is to ensure that they get a job half a year, because they're going out in June, after all, and in summer they're summer vicars. The full-year effect is 200 million. kr. This will be aimed at employing police students in new police positions, who are in addition to those who replace those who go off naturally in the building. In addition, we're following up last year's budget by 150 million. kr to the full-year effect for those employed last year. In 2019, there was also an additional allocation of more than 150 million. to the police in the revised national budget. The investigation capacity needs to be strengthened, and therefore the government has proposed to grant 83 million. NOK to this. This is now proposed as free resources for police districts, because there is a different need in the different districts. Therefore, the money has to be used locally, where the shoe presses the most in the field of investigation, whether it's law enforcement, more investigators or to raise the status of those who are there now, so that you can keep them. Some have reacted to a reduction in admission to Police College from 550 to 400. But this is a natural development when the target population, two police per thousand inhabitants, is reached in 2020. However, it will not be until 2023 that the number of future police officers will be reduced to 400. If the police consider all available future police officers up to 2025, a police coverage of 2.13 police posts per thousand inhabitants in Norway will be available by 2025. Population growth is, of course, included in the calculation. In comparison, Sweden had 2.03 policemen per thousand inhabitants in 2016, according to Eurostat. According to the same statistical source, Denmark had 1.86 and Finland had 1.37. In particular, Sweden has a crime challenge that we do not come close to in Norway. It should be well known to most people. It will be added that Sweden has already planned to increase its police force by 10,000. I would also like to stress that we are a little uncertain as to what is the basis of this Eurostat measurement, so we cannot go so far as to ensure that this is measured equally in all countries. Is it cut to the ground that there should be only two policemen per thousand inhabitants? No, it's not. That's exactly why it's at the Oslo Police College we're taking the cut, because then we have a greater flexibility to be able to increase the intake at a later stage, if it turns out to be necessary. In particular, there may be a specialization, a master's course, so that several of the specialists needed by the police can be brought in as police-trained persons who have first taken a bachelor's degree, and subsequently may have passed a master's degree, or have taken a different kind of specialisation. If there's anything we know, it's that we need more specialization in the police in the future. We both need to have a good response time and to deal with the new crime. Police Norway is still in a critical phase of the reform. The restructurings were completed in 2018, but there are still many adjustments and changes taking place around the police districts. There are many who have gained new roles, new police methods have to be learned, and they have to be used. Overall, the reform affects 17,500 staff. It is a difficult reform, but the criminals do not pause because of reform work in the police. This is why it becomes burdensome to implement the investments made in personnel and knowledge, while at the same time maintaining crime — and actually increasing in terms of the most serious and serious crime. In order to meet this promise, the budgets of the police with the 2020 budget proposal have been increased by 35 p.m. in total. since 2013. This is an increase of 4.4 billion. kr since the government joined, of which SEK 3.3 billion. kr is on the police operating budget. This is a real increase, i.e. the amount has been corrected for price and salary adjustment. Changes related to budgeting and VAT and pension expenditure are also included. In the period 2013–2019, the growth of police districts is actually 1.9 billion. kr. There's a lot of numbers in such a statement, but the facts are often numbers when you ask for preparedness and staffing. In the big news coming during the fall, the government will provide the Stortinget with a thorough assessment of where we are now, for a year after the last police district implemented its structural changes. There we will also point on the way forward and what the government wants to do in the future to ensure that we get an even more robust police force and even more people out on the street in police operations. We have to remember that the police's duties are quite complex, and that the police patrol is just part of the ten thousand policemen standing in the building day and night to keep us safe. As the statement shows, you can't just compare one figure from the former police Norway to the new police Norway. Security is created through both police in the street, prevention and good investigators. But for all of this to work well, we depend on all terms working well, from the notification to OPS, to the prosecution lawyer deciding on the desired form of reaction. I still feel confident that the police in their present state are able to provide the necessary security for the population. However, there is definitely a need for improvement, and that is precisely why the government has invested in the police in its draft budget. If the government had thought that everything was good, we would have come to deliver a budget proposal where we had only adjusted for wage and price growth, but in the draft budget we have delivered, there is a significant commitment to the police – actually, 350 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-24.ana.ud98e431	In accordance with Section 45 of the Storting Rules of Procedure, the President will now open for a short comment round, limited to an entry of up to 5 minutes from each party group and final submissions from the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-24.ana.ud98e436	I had two things written down on my sheet before I came up here today: Do I belong to a Minister of Justice who recognizes the actual problems that everyone knows about? Is the Minister of Justice, as the top man in the Ministry of Justice, willing now to take action to do something about the situation we know so well? There was little to the right about – although I am glad that the Minister of Justice at least acknowledges that there are major challenges associated with the response time. There's a lot of disagreement about whether one is going to achieve the goal of two per thousand to next year. And to that, I just want to encourage everyone who's interested to think about the way a number works. So the Minister of Justice talks a lot about the great challenge we have with sexual abuse and violence in close relationships. It is a social problem, it is serious crime, and those who are victims of this type of crime are now in growing queues. These are the victims we talk about when we react to the fact that the remains are growing in the police districts – that there are too few prosecutors, that there are too few investigators. That situation has not been addressed by the seven Ministers of Justice of the Progress Party. It's unlikely that little has been done with that particular situation. It also says little about where we are, when 20,000 people who live on the Nesodden – I am from the valley, where there are 1,000 people – cannot count on the police keeping the response time requirements. I think it's an overarching problem that the seven Justice Ministers from the Progress Party have not enabled the police to deal with both today's and tomorrow's crime. As the Minister of Justice quite rightly says, the criminals are not free. They have taken very little time off lately – if you see how it was here in Oslo this weekend. There were a few of us when we agreed on the close-up reform was that one should be able to carry out the important social mission at the same time as one was in a reform. The government and the seven ministers of the Progress Party have not been able to deliver on it. The Progress Party and the Minister of Justice often boast of the police work at the city. An excuse to do police work in town is that there's police in town. We have agreed that the local police should be strengthened. Why doesn't that happen? Why can one stand here one year before a reform is completed, and just say that there are still some challenges with response time? This is a lack of political power, this is a lack of political governance. Once again, the Oslo Police Association is setting off an alarm here in Oslo. Again, Kristin Aga says that her members tell about a everyday life where they more often see that the police have to retreat because of resource shortages. The Oslo Police Association says that in Oslo, law enforcement has added 100 fewer than in 2017. The Minister of Justice had a lot of numbers in his article, and that's good, they'd like us to look at it more closely. But there's a lot of uncertainty about where these cops work. Yes, there are more police officers in the police district, but what does the net figure look like? What does it look like when you look at the county boundaries? In my county, Telemark, we know that there have been considerably fewer annual police work. In the south-east police districts, as the Labour Party, the SV and the Central Party particularly highlighted in connection with the distribution, there are 200 calls to the Operation Centre per day that have not been responded to. It's over 45 minutes waiting if a ring is 02800. It's not a challenge, it's a big problem, it's very serious for those who are trying to get in touch with the police. The situation this summer we know, then it was even worse, then only in June 105 naud calls were unanswered. This isn't control, it's just not good enough, it represents a crisis for many of those who call, and for very many of those who work in the police. I had hoped that we would get a list of measures the Minister of Justice would start now to clean up some of the situation we have described. So we didn't get that. It's serious if the trust in the police was looking. It's serious if people stop reporting crime because the police don't have the capacity to investigate. It's not useful to say that if you don't, we need to strengthen research, law enforcement and law enforcement. I would like to debate this more and look more closely at the presentation, and ask that the report be sent to the Justice Committee for consideration.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-24.ana.ud98e466	I would like to thank the Minister of Justice for a useful review. This is a time of much debate and many allegations about the police, and a lot of creative use of numbers. Then it's very good to get the facts on the table -- both those who are good for the police, and those who are a little alarming for the police. This is a topic to which all in Norway have a strong relationship. We have high expectations for our police action, and when it does wrong or there are misunderstandings or misconceptions about the police, it puts the minds in the boil. We owe the police a thorough debate on the situation, and I look forward to the police report that will come from the department in less than too long. This is a debate characterized by many myths. I think everyone who's been running justice has heard the allegations that POD almost as a monster in Oslo swallows up all the resources and yearwork. People get the same paffe when you tell them that POD doesn't have 1,000 to 2,000 employees, they have 300. We also hear claims that there are fewer patrols now than before. There's also something that you can refute with hard facts. There's a lot of "silver research" going on and on. You always hear people saying, when I was young, there was a lot more police in the streets. All of this we can be involved in nuances. Then we have the sensational hunt that we often find in the headlines. There are some newspaper headlines coming back year after year: ‘You get that summer body’, ‘Now the raft’, ‘You get that kind of swearing on the rib’. What's just as firm every year is the newspaper reports that it's being cut in the police. I intend to read out the headlines I found with a Google search from 2019 onward – I stopped somewhere around 2011: «Oslo must cut up to 150 posts», «Rogaland can lose 85 posts», «40 posts must disappear from the South-West police district», «Police fears mass redundancies», «50 posts can be cut», «Police Master can cut 140 years' work», «70–170 posts can disappear in the South-East police district», «Police in Troms must cut down in annual work», «Freights 430 years of police work can be cut off». ‘Police must cut up to 500 posts’. Now we've come to 2011, and I'll put the line there. As far as I can see, after all these years of warning about cutbacks in the police, the number of annual works that have disappeared due to downgrades and cuts is almost zero. I'm not sure if it really reflects what people think out there, so we have a job to do in informing about what's right, and what's unexplained about the police. So, of course, some of the findings and some of the reports from the police are worrying. I have sometimes wondered where all the police positions are going. They disappear in a big black hole, or do they actually come out where we want them? That's why this statement is useful, which goes through that question in depth. Maybe the police have to become more visible, maybe you have to cut more office hours, courses, etc. to become more operational. There are big, unanswered questions. For example, I think it is alarming that we need to have about 18.5 years' worth of work to manning a police car for one day – 18.5 years' worth of work to manning a police car with two police officers for one day. It's sky high above other emergencies, and it's sky high above our neighboring countries. This is one of many interesting questions that I look forward to discussing when the police report comes. I also register that the chairman of the committee wants this matter to be sent to committee. I'm not rejecting it, but I would urge the committee chairman to reconsider whether it's possible to see this in the context of the police communication that's coming. If I don't respect the minority's desire to discuss this in the committee, and will not stand in the way of it. But I would encourage the chairman of the committee to think one more time about whether that might be useful.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-24.ana.ud98e485	I want to start by thanking the Minister of Justice for the presentation. There is no doubt that we are living at a time when crime is changing. The events in Oslo, but also in other cities, the last week and the last time, have caused people to be concerned. It also illustrates the need for us to have a police force capable of addressing the growing challenges we see. We know that crime is changing. It was also the Minister of Justice himself. Many of the forms of crime that have been more common, such as profit crime, go down, while other forms go up. It's very illustrative when less than 3 pst. of crime now takes over 30 pst. of the resources. Because even if we get less crime overall, we need more competence, more resources and more time to solve the forms of crime that are increasing in scope. There have been 1,700 more police years since 2013. 1,500 of these, as the Minister of Justice said, have gone to the districts. When you look at how the new jobs have been allocated to different types of problem solving in the last two years, you have over 40 pst. of the posts assigned to patrols, over 30 pst. of the posts have gone to the investigation and about 10 pst. have been involved in prevention and other tasks. Of the new posts that have arrived, more than 90 pst. went to the districts to strengthen both investigation, patrol and other. Despite this increase, I realize that people are impatient. I'm very impatient, and it's also the government parties. We should have wanted even more effort, not least when you see the media picture, with increasingly complex challenges. But the fact that we had to do more doesn't mean that we can push away from the increase that has come, because it's real, and it's made the police better able to solve the problems and the challenges that we see than if they hadn't come. These are new resources. It's not just about positions, it's also about a number of other important things that help to strengthen capacity, not least changes in laws and regulations on armaments. I think in the situation we are now in, we see how necessary it has been that the police, especially in the capital, have been given increased access to arms. Increased penalties in a number of key areas and the reduction of pay queues have also contributed to strengthening them. Not least, there has been a commitment to strengthening the capacity of our top capacities. The Delta team has got new boats, and we have got new helicopters and reinforcement of the PST. All of this, together with both the increase in posts and the strengthening of districts, has made it not only police, but the whole of Emergency Norway, which is now better able to deal with a set of challenges, whether it is traditional police work, or it is the more dangerous types of events, which unfortunately have become more and more common in Europe, and which we also see affect the level of threats in Norway. We are in the midst of a police reform – a reform that was absolutely necessary. We saw that both after July 22nd and during the evaluation after that tragedy. But it is also absolutely necessary because crime, which several others have experienced earlier today, has changed. Yesterday's police were not fit to solve today's and tomorrow's challenges, so this reform is absolutely necessary. But are we done with the reform? No, no, no. Are we on target? No, no, no. Are there still challenges that need to be solved? Absolutely. That's what we're going to do together to solve, but there's one thing that it's not possible to get away from, and it's that there's been real increases and real strengths in the number of posts, in law houses, and in different capacities and capabilities, which is good for both the police and the rest of readiness Norway today, and which makes us have a society that's better able to deal with both crime and more dangerous and more complicated events than before.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-24.ana.ud98e500	Winston Churchill had the speeches in order, and he pronounced among others: Just as it is, people stumble over the truth. Most people get back on their legs quickly, and hurry on as if nothing has happened. That's how I get the impression that it's when someone from the government party meets policemen who express real concern about the situation in the department. Then these members of the government or the government representatives from the government party stumble in a way about the truth. They have the choice between making an impression or rushing on as if nothing had happened. They probably too often have the last option. Now there is reason to commend the Minister of Justice for coming here today to give this statement that we have asked him to do. I first have to stress what is the central party's starting point to ask him for this, because the three parties behind the sent letter look different on the reform. For the Central Party, the main criticism of the government is not that they have implemented the police reform in the wrong way. Our main criticism is that the adopted police reform was wrong, that it failed already when the decision was taken in 2015. Therefore, we believe that immediate action is not sufficiently close to correct the main problem. At the same time, we recognise that the majority of the population is still behind the police reform, and we believe that all the unrest expressed by the people in the building must be followed up with action now. It is about a lack of resources and a distortion of resources that does not provide good enough police services and security neither in the city nor in the city. Actually.no indicates that the response time is rising, especially in areas where there are little people. The preparedness was something that the so-called near-police reform was supposed to improve, and the bulk of the population defended massive redundancies of LEN's offices that this would give greater resources to the remaining LEN's offices and not least the basis for many more police patrols — the police on wheels. Now, the fire and rescue service is becoming more and more frequent and is only at the forefront of events that the police are also being called to. I've asked several times about where all of the new police patrols that were promised as a result of the reform, but the government has had to admit every time that an overview of this, they don't. At the same time, the Prime Minister believes that she has a good enough overview of this to boast that there have been more police on wheels. We in the Central Party have a clear call for the Minister of Justice, and it is that he must make sure that all the remaining Länsmann offices are strengthened before the reform, as they rightly expect, and in line with how his own party actually voted in April 2018. In addition, it should be considered whether to reopen individual bilge offices. Response time requirements must be set for all urgent tasks, not just 80 pst. by occurrences, such as today. Operation centres must be able to handle incoming messages without having to wait a long time. Investigation and prosecution must be sufficiently strengthened to ensure that the increasing balances are stopped and that criminal proceedings are avoided at a rate which is not the same as the parties to which it is owed, especially in violence and assaults. I would like to remind you that what the government has set as a target for the police reform in Prop. 61 LS for 2014-2015, etc. week(s) ‘walking from empty labour offices to an bystander police station located in the community is visible and accessible and ensures citizens’ safety’. From a former gunman, who has now been downgraded to a police officer in line with the fury of the cannon seat, we are told that in the areas where there were previously small offices, slowly but surely the contact with the population disappeared. We experience that as alarming. Messages will also be smaller. Only the most serious events are reported. Every-day research and intelligence information is no longer coming to the police. We lose an overview of communities and no longer know what's going on. In addition, he said that there is still a centralisation because resources are moved more often and more often from smaller Länsmannskontoret and into the geographical units. Such honest reports from policemen who are afraid to tell us what is going on in the department make it possible for the government and the Minister of Justice to stumble over the truth. If they do so, they can choose to provide a good basis for implementing the necessary measures. Unfortunately, the will to resolve the problems is greater than the will to address them, both with the Minister of Justice today and to the highest degree with the representative Frölich. The Central Party supports the transfer of the delegation to the Judicial Committee in line with the Committee's Chairman. I believe that the Committee itself – in consultation with the chairperson of the Committee – can decide whether it can be dealt with together with the notification.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-24.ana.ud98e535	Thank you very much to the Minister of Justice, who is meeting in Stortinget to address this important matter. Thanks also for the presentation, which I think in some areas was very nuanced and gave a broad picture of the police work. He needs to be commended for that. I think it's important when we have this debate, that we don't leave the impression that the Storting's opposition here is going to hang on to the police, because we're not actually doing that. We have a very good police force in Norway, perhaps one of the world's best police officers and one of the world's best police officers. They have good values and do their job in a very good way that we'll be proud of. We face several challenges. We have a structure, a response and a geography challenge that the Center Party and the Workers' Party have set up, and I join in very much of it. But we also have some content challenges, which I'll talk more about. At the same time that this weekend, much unprovoked violence from youth was reported, a place between five and ten women in Oslo were raped. If we add violence in close relationships, the numbers are even higher. I have mentioned this with former Justice Ministers, and I am delighted to do so today. Unlike youth violence, as there was an alarm about this weekend, this is going on every day. The number of victims of this violence is quite different from all other crimes in Norway. We're talking about about about 15,000 rapes this year in Norway, and maybe as many as 30,000 abuses in close relationships. 10 pst. of these cases are notified. Is there going to be crisis meetings between the Minister of Justice, Prime Minister and the police because of these figures? No, it won't. There'll be crisis meetings when the media write about youth violence in Oslo, but there won't be crisis meetings when so many women, and maybe even children, experience this almost every day. A great many of these are based on the Minister of Justice's security concept. So they're safer out there than at home. The police tell us that they only solve approx. 30 pst. of these matters. That means that seven out of ten of the women who have been so brave to report, for example. His father, his brother, or his uncle, gets a standard letter back from the police that their case is closed, while perhaps they live with this attacker. When I talk to the police about this, they say that it is mainly about lack of capacity. I would like to make the claim that Norway's biggest judicial problem, or crisis, is that in cases where women are mainly victims, the judicial system in Norway fails. So we do not have a system in Norway that ensures the necessary protection against abuse. Despite 1,600 more policemen in Norway, as reported by the Minister of Justice, these figures are not getting any better. Then I believe we have come to some sort of turning point in the understanding of this by the Storting and the government. Traditionally, we give the police a big pot of money that they themselves can dispose of. I believe that we have come to a point now where the Storting must take responsibility and much more rule, perhaps detailed rule, what the police are going to do. When the police don't do everything, it's the Big City's duty to make sure they do the most, and the most important thing is to secure women and children against abuse. Then Stortinget has to take responsibility for doing so. SV has taken the initiative to ensure that we receive earmarked resources in the budgets to ensure the police's work against online abuse and rape. It refuses the government parties to do so. They do not give us insight into how much the police spend on weapons and cars – I have asked several times. It is a major problem that the Storting has poor access to what the police are actually using their resources. SV will have earmarked resources for exactly this. We also believe that we should guide the police in detail so that we even want a measurement of how much they are working on exactly this kind of matter. In one area, this government and the majority of the government are willing to address the police with figures, and it is in terms of throwing out illegal asylum seekers who are in the country. Then the police have very detailed instructions. We believe that it is more important that they be guided in detail in terms of the protection of women and children than in terms of disposing of asylum seekers. It is absolutely essential that we get a change of approach from the police to this, and it must be done by the Storting taking responsibility for this situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-24.ana.ud98e556	Thank you to the Council of State for a good, thorough and nuanced arrangement. Looking at the eyeglasses of the watch, there is little doubt that the police reform was both right and necessary. The question today is also whether the changes should have been initiated earlier by the parties who today boldly criticise the reform of hard laws, a party that has suddenly found the answer to problems they were not in the vicinity of answering when they themselves put in power. Being humble is sometimes an underestimated value in this room. The police have had a high priority in all six years of the Left Party and the other government parties have had a plurality on the Stortinget, with an historic lift in both the media and the crew. However, without plaguing the assembly with too many numbers, it should also be pointed out from me that there has been an increase of 19 pst. Several policemen since we took over the plural in 2013, after eight years with the same red-green parties that are now quite strong in their criticism. All police districts have increased numbers, and next year we will reach the target of two policemen per thousand inhabitants — a long-term goal, a milestone we are proud to achieve. That the police reform did not come too early one day is underlined by a crime scene that has changed very quickly. The changes are dramatic. Even if the total crime goes down, for which the Council of State did well, we have a strong growth in issues like power and sexual law, where we've seen an increase of 23 pst. and 75 pst. only between 2014 and 2018. It is very serious and concerns me and the Left deeply. The issues relating to children, such as sexual intercourse with children under 14 years of age, and Internet abuse, are increasing explosively. Between 2014 and 2018, assault material, pornography involving young people, has been reported to increase by a total of 350 pst. – almost unimaginable and completely cruel to the people involved. And to anyone who criticises the police reform, who opposed the reform, who has fallen off the reform or will reverse it: how could we have avoided this development without the reform? Fortunately, several of these issues are now being identified because of the reform, although there are very complex and resource-intensive issues. There's a reason to stress what the state council also did, that the most serious issues the police are dealing with, is just 2.9 pst. of the cases, but take the entire 32.5 pst. of resources. Serious cases require considerable resource use, and an increase in the most serious cases challenges the capacity of the criminal justice chain. Although the crime scene has changed, we are not only dependent on having the police out there among people, but also on people having great confidence in the police, and that the police are there when we need the police. I confess that it impresses me when I, as a grocer, visit a smaller loner's office where they do not have a conscience to spare and know the bad conscience of the holiday because they know that the burden is even greater for those who are left in the office – offices that are not in the vicinity of the target of two per thousand inhabitants, but are at a very low level of 0.7 to 0.8, offices that have neither the desire nor the need to approach two per thousand, but which can offer a completely different offer if they approach or pass one per thousand. This is primarily about ensuring good services and accessible police throughout the country, and people have confidence in the police, but it is also about those who work in the first-line service having jobs that make them enthusiastic, proud representatives of such an important social institution as the police are. Therefore, Left is pleased that the government party has chosen to earmark 100 million. SEK to attract new police students, and that in revised 2019 we adopted an extra grant of more than 150 million. NOK 83 million. kr extra to strengthen the research capacity, measures to improve response time, which have already given coverage in the form of new positions at the smaller Länsmannskontor – a development Left with the other government parties, as has been said, to continue in 2020, by meeting the target of two police officers per thousand inhabitants. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-24.ana.ud98e575	Then you're out of time.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-24.ana.ud98e581	Thank you for a good debate. I think there have been many good views. To the Workers' Party, which calls for immediate action: with this statement, I would like to remind you that the government has for a long time said that we are delivering a big message on how to deal with the police reform in the future, and how we should also increase the police patrol. Perhaps the most important immediate measure has already been promoted, namely a budget proposal to increase police appropriations, and the revised figure was 150 million. kr in increase to the police. This is a recognition from the government that not everything is rosy, and that there was a need to strengthen the police. If we hadn't come up with these bet proposals and the increased appropriations, it would have been a recognition that everything was fine. As I said, we do not think so. It's always the case that there are some statements out there and going, but I can't see that they're very well documented. One of the claims is that there are 100 fewer in the Oslo police patrol. When we ask the police officer Beate Gangås about the number of votes, we get the answer that it probably isn't exactly right. It's probably a little bit like a comparison between apples and pears. But as the police chief says, there's enough reason to try to turn even more resources over to the police patrol because you see that the picture is changing. When youth crime rises, as it has done in Oslo, there is reason to invest more resources there from areas where crime has fallen. For example, among crime that has gone down are: personran and pocket theft, which was a major problem for the Oslo Police a few years ago. This is how police officers must be allowed to prioritise within their police district. We cannot have delinquency treatment every time we see changes in crime trends. Then I'm going to promise that Police Norway had come to fall behind in all the new trends. The central party believes that this is the reform that is the problem. If we had the same quality increase that we got in the police, with the old structure, we would have to have used a disproportionate amount of resources. If we were to have the same quality of the French police services as we have today, with police work on the ground, a power station through the Ålesund Police Chamber, which can help when the French police are out and have to deal with difficult matters, then we had to have a completely different funding of the police. When we then compare the Central Party's own alternative budget proposals with what they really want – to have the same quality as we get now, but with the old structure – the Central Party has underfunded the police in the last three years of 16 billion. kr. So to SV, which I think had quite good reflections: first I want to stress that I and the mayor did not have a crisis meeting. We had a half-yearly scheduled meeting that happened to be just on Monday after this weekend. The reason why we have half-yearly meetings with the City Council leader in Oslo is that we have a good cooperation between the municipality and the police, where we put a great deal of emphasis on prevention. We also focus a lot on family violence and child abuse. That's what I'm worried about: when we get 162 pst. increase in abuse against children under 16 years of age, then perhaps some of the most important things we need to address. Why has this increase come? Is it because it's become more of it? Yes, a lot is because it's become more of it, because the attack material is more available, but it's also that the darkness numbers are now being taken. Every time you've asked a person on the record or someone in child protection, it's often the same story of having grown up in a home marked by violence and abuse. I want to say that the grips we are now dealing with the police reform give us a historic chance to finally address those problems. We are sure that we have to deal with this, and that is why the government continues to bet on the police.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-24.ana.ud98e602	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox The President will propose that the Minister of Justice and Immigration’s statement on the situation of police personnel and emergency be sent to the Judicial Committee. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-24.ana.ud98e622	This year we celebrate the year of the wild. The 2019 international wild season is a year to convey joy and interest related to salmon and to teach us what the wild axis means to us. Norway aims to maintain stocks and ensure a natural harvestable surplus. The Director of the Environment Directorate introduced the year of the wild species as follows: ‘Our axis has a unique value as nature and natural resource, which gives rise to outdoor experiences, business and culture. We are now inviting all interested parties to celebrate the King of the Rivers in 2019.» Vänern-Laksen, or more specifically the ‘clare eel’, is a genetically unique and protective salmon strain that originates from Sweden’s largest lake, Vänern. It migrates naturally from there through Klarälven in Sweden, across the Swedish border and into what is on the Norwegian side Trysilelva and Femundselva. Trysil- and Femundvastret and Klarälven were once one of the most salmon-rich rivers in Scandinavia. In the 1700s, up to 50,000 salmon caught were reported only in the Swedish part of the watercourse, while documented catches in the lower part of the Klarälven in the 1800s were 8 000 to 30000 salmon per year. Some years more than 200 tonnes were fished annually throughout the watercourse system, and by comparison the total catch of salmon in Norwegian rivers is currently between 200 and 400 tonnes. Extensive fishing and power development through the 1800s and 1900s eventually made it impossible for salmon to migrate between their spawning grounds in the river and the growing areas of Vänern. Trysileva was then empty for salmon. In the year of the wild, it is very good to discuss how to get this genetically unique salmon back into free migration and restore the natural biodiversity of the Trysil and Femund rivers. The salmon that used to roam Trysileva is a real quality salmon. I've already mentioned that it's about a genetically unique strain, one of the few surviving worldwide. But it is also probably the largest freshwater salmon in Norway. It has a normal weight of between two and four kilograms, and specimens of up to ten kilograms have been found. It has natural good health and is genetically intact. It can best be described as unique and irreplaceable, and it is a major loss that the Trysil and Femund watercourse have lost this important resident and resource. Without blockades in the hiking pattern, the salmon would have walked up to 400 kilometres, from Vänern in Sweden to Femunden in Norway. It may also be that free routes for the salmon would have provided better living conditions for other species in the watercourse system. The watercourse was built over the last century with nine power plants on the Swedish side and two on the Norwegian side. In 1906 the first power plants were built on the Swedish side. There were salmon escalators until the 1930s, but salmon migration was limited especially after 1938, when the large Höljesdammen was built. Today, the power stations provide little or no means for the salmon to pass. There is no survival after passing one or more power plant turbines. This means that the salmon are not able to reach spawning areas on the Norwegian side, in the Trysil and Femund rivers. Many attempts have been made to help the salmon up to the spawning grounds. Over a few decades from the 1930s and beyond the 1980s, salmon was transported to spawning areas on the Norwegian side by car, and still today there is a car transport up to the spawning areas. There are also thousands of juveniles on the Norwegian side of the 11 in later years, even after 2010. These are solutions that are not sustainable and lasting over time, because the salmon will not be able to recede in the watercourse later on in their life cycle. It must be considered as an emergency solution that has ensured survival and the unique genetic material that this salmon constitutes, but is therefore not a permanent solution. Salmon back in free circulation is an important environmental issue. It would have meant the conservation of species diversity and natural native species in Norwegian fauna, and it would have been very positive for some of Norway which currently has major challenges in other areas related to nature and the environment, as they have in Trysil and Engerdal. It is also an important issue for local culture and tradition, and not least there is an enormous potential for nutrient development in the areas along the watercourse on the Swedish and Norwegian sides – if the king of the rivers could have returned to their original extent and made the Trysil and Femund rivers once again one of Norway’s best salmon rivers. The watercourse that makes up the Klarälven, Trysileva and Femundselva is a special river because it passes through two different countries with different laws and different management systems. Most salmon rivers have rivers to the sea and salt water, while Trysileva goes to Lake Vänern and fresh water. The EU Water Directive has been implemented in both Norway and Sweden. Trysileva has poor status today, as a result of the salmon being gone. Where the condition does not reach ‘good’, the general rule is that environmental improvement measures should be implemented. It may impose an obligation to implement reasonable measures to bring the salmon back into that watercourse. In 2010, contacts at the level of the Environment Minister in Sweden and Norway started cooperation with a view to building a common salmon strain in these watercourses on both the Norwegian and Swedish sides. The project ‘Vänerlaxen’s free time’ was established in 2011 and the final report from 2015 concluded that: “The most important conclusion is that it is technically, economically and biologically possible with a high degree of hydropower production while Klarälven, Trysileva and Femundelva can be one of Scandinavia’s best salmon streams.” So the project, which was at that time with Fylkesmann and the County Board, concluded that the salmon can come back, while at the same time having a high degree of hydropower production, and that the potential is that the Trysil and Five Watercourse can become one of the largest salmon rivers in Scandinavia. The ‘free time’ project was continued in a new project. It was the Interreg project «Two countries – a river», also through the County Board of Värmland and Fylkesmannen in the Inland. That project started in 2017 and is now running until March 2020. If we are to get back a sustainable free-range salmon strain all the way from Vänern to Femunden, we are dependent on a good cooperation between the Swedish and Norwegian authorities. Several initiatives have been taken by County and Norwegian municipalities vis-à-vis the Ministry of Climate and Environment to establish commitment cooperation in the course of the process. The desire is to ensure uniform, sustainable and cross-border management practices that allow salmon to return without being threatened in the future. This should be possible. In 2019, we have more knowledge and experience than ever before about solutions for fishing passages and biology, and we have laws and environmental objectives to ensure the diversity of our nature. Then I came to the question: How does the government cooperate with the Swedish authorities to get back the salmon in Trysilelva, and what will the government do further when the ongoing Interreg project expires in 2020?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-24.ana.ud98e668	First, I have to thank you for the interpellation. Much of the Atlantic salmon belongs in Norwegian streams. The villa is therefore a species for which Norway has a special responsibility, and we do a lot to take care of the wild. It is now also important in the wild season to underline and reinforce it. But some of the special thing about the Vänern salmon is that it lives its whole life in fresh water. Originally it walked from Lake Vänern to Klarälven, Trysil and Femund to spawn. It's true that the interpellant was also saying that about 80 pst. the spawning area of the salmon was on the Norwegian side of the watercourse. The free movement of salmon is hampered today by nine hydropower plants on the Swedish side and two on the Norwegian side. The stock is now kept alive through the transport of gypsum fish past the eight lower hydropower plants, and there is no longer salmon in the watercourse on the Norwegian side. In 2011, a Norwegian-Swedish cooperation project was launched, with the aim of restoring Vänern salmon in its original distribution area. The first period of the project, called ‘Vänernlaksen’s free time’, lasted from 2011 to 2014 and was reported in 2015. The aim was to identify the conditions for the restoration of wild salmon and trout stocks in the Trysil and Five Waterways and the Klara Rivers, free routes for all migratory fish species, good ecological status, increased and sustainable sport fishing tourism and rural development. The 2015 report points out, inter alia: where necessary to provide sufficient effective passengers for fish up and down migration beyond all power plants. Furthermore, it is pointed out that the collection of fish for the transport of cars up and down past power stations is the most relevant in the short term. The costs of environmental investment in efficient upstream and downstream passages past 10 of the 11 power plants are in the report estimated at approximately 1 billion. Swedish krona. In addition, environmental investment costs at Hölje power plant amount to more than 500 million. Swedish krona. The next period of the project started in 2017 and is called ‘Two Countries — A River’. During this period, work is organised in three themes. One theme concerns increased catch and survival of upstream and downstream salmon at power stations and environmental regulation. The second theme is bioto-performance, reintroduction of fish and stock monitoring. The third theme concerns genetics and cost-benefit analyses. The project description presents expectations about what the project can contribute to in the long term. I'll mention some of these expectations. Firstly, it can be seen that the Klarälven and Trysil and Feminine rivers continue to produce high hydropower, while the watercourse has become one of Scandinavia's best salmon rivers. Secondly, 11 hydropower plants have had well-functioning upstream and downstream passages for salmon and several other fish species. Thirdly, salmon stocks are found in its original range and long-term survival is ensured. So it's ambitious expectations that lie in the work that's done before. There are also expectations that sport fishing tourism will be able to market for up to 20 million salmon. Swedish krona a year in Klarälven and up to 20 million. Norwegian kronor in Trysil and Femund watercourse. However, the Environment Directorate has also pointed to some challenges of the Vänern salmon project. One of the challenges is the risk of infection of the salmon parasite Gyrodactylus salaris in Norwegian regions. This parasite was detected on the Vänern salmon in 2013. The Vänern salmon may have developed a high resistance to the parasite, but in Norway this parasite is a threat to wildax populations, and it is used as a known major resource to combat the parasite in Norwegian watercourses. So this is a problem that will have to be addressed. The Norwegian-Swedish cooperation project is now within its second period. This period ends in 2020, and I look forward to reporting from the second period of the project. At the same time, I am considering the way further as the second period of the project now goes to the end. As an important part of this, I want to discuss the matter with the Swedish authorities. On March 12, this year, I met with Trysil and Engerdal municipalities about the Vänern salmon. In that meeting, I also gave a statement to that effect. After the meeting with the two municipalities this spring, there is established contact with the Swedish Ministry of the Environment. The contact takes place primarily at administrative level, but I have also brought up the Vänern salmon with my Swedish colleague, Lövin, in connection with other meetings and other themes that we have had. I would also like to point out that cooperation is ongoing between the Maritime and Water Authorities and the Environment Directorate on the implementation of the EU Water Directives in the Norwegian-Swedish border waterways. In 2018, these authorities concluded a two-year agreement on cooperation in water management under the Water Directive. The aim of this cooperation is to create common assumptions and principles and mutual understanding and to exploit synergies in the work of the two authorities. In addition, a common strategy paper was developed in 2012 for the management of Norwegian-Swedish border crossings. The Environment Directorate informs that they are planning a meeting with the Maritime and Water Authority during the first quarter of 2020. At the meeting, it will be assessed whether this strategy paper needs to be updated. At the meeting, the two authorities will also discuss the possibilities for a bilateral agreement between Norway and Sweden on border management. The development of this cooperation between the Marine and Water Authorities and the Environment Directorate is also important in order to assess whether work on improving the situation of the Vänern salmon should be put into a wider bilateral context.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-24.ana.ud98e706	I thank the Minister for the climate and environment for coming to Stortinget to inform us about this matter, and have also taken the initiative of the Swedish authorities to cooperate. I think we're totally dependent on that if we're going to be able to move on. He said that in the current INTERREG project, it is an ambitious goal for what to achieve. I think that's absolutely right. It's ambitious goals because the situation that has evolved in the last hundred years is quite serious for the entire salmon population, and it's serious that we have lost an entire genetically unique salmon strain in a completely watercourse on the Norwegian side. I understand why the minister highlighted in his reply that it is a long way to go to get it back. The biggest obstacle is maybe these salmon traps, which will cost a lot to build out if you're going to get free passage past all eleven power plants, which you really have to get if it's going to be a natural hike. So I want to ask the minister if he can elaborate on a little bit of two things. One is if the government itself thinks it's too ambitious to realize that you're going to get a free pass. The second is whether you can be sure that there will be a new project that will extend the existing one, so you don't have to stop working on this important matter. Now it has been working on it for quite a long time, from the start of the first project in 2011. The Council of State was in on that, but I would like to see an even clearer signal that this matter will continue without interruption after March 2020, when the current project expires.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-24.ana.ud98e717	I can be very clear that I think we should continue this cooperation. Now it has been over two periods, and my goal of contacting the Swedish authorities is to continue. But that's not something I can decide alone; then we must also have a cooperation with Sweden. That's why I also mention the slightly broader cooperation on the border rivers, which we must at least look at in the context of what is going on just on the Klarälven and Trysil and the Fifth Watercourse. That's my goal and something I've been working on this year, and will continue until next year. But I can't say right when that consensus will be there, I have to come back to that. So I think it's important to say that there are very ambitious targets that are described, and that I was also in, but you have to look it up against the meaning of the watercourse. It was a significant fish, and 80 pst. of the spawning areas is on the Norwegian side. As mentioned earlier, 10 000–30000 fish were caught back to the beginning of the last century. So this is important. The importance must be viewed against both the costs and the size of the project. So I don't think of it as a problem when it comes to going on. It's more that this is big projects, you have to accept that it's going to take time. But then you have to break it down to something that is manageable, and do it in cooperation with Sweden, and look at how the gradual development can be. What is a concern in the Environment Directorate and, as I said, also needs to be addressed, is the question of Gyrodactylus salaris, because it is in this population, in the Vänern salmon, and when it is going to go up in the river, and especially when it is free migration, if we look so far forward, it is clear that it needs to be addressed. Because you will then get a parasite into Norwegian watercourses that we do not have today, and with which we have major problems in other watercourses. So it's not possible to take it easy. It must be absolutely fundamental to the work to be carried out. This is the case with important and big things: you have to have a lot of will over a long time. But there's no other approach to it than starting at one end, and the first task I have is to keep in touch with the Swedish authorities and look at what's going to be the next phase of cooperation, where we've now gone through two phases.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-24.ana.ud98e730	I think it is a great pleasure for many in Trysil and other areas of the watercourse, that the minister can be so clear that the project will continue, because this is something of great importance for local culture and for potential nutritional development in an area that needs jobs and needs positive development. I very much appreciate that we have received such a clear signal in Stortinget now, and that the minister is doing that work. It's quite true, as he says, this has been a salmon fairy of great importance, and I'm glad he acknowledges that you have to look it up against the costs of getting the eleven back in their original state, because it's clear that it will be expensive. With a salmon population of 80 pst. on the Norwegian side of the spawning area, that cost may be appropriate. In conclusion, I would like to thank the Minister again for coming. He was in on the Gyrodactylus salaris parasite and said there was a concern from the Environment Directorate. I wonder how concrete they are in their recommendations on how to deal with this. Is there something you have an answer to or have enough knowledge of today? Could the Minister explain how he could possibly meet that challenge — if there is any answer to it now?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-24.ana.ud98e739	Unfortunately, I think it is difficult to be more specific about it. Obviously, Gyrodactylus salaris has been a huge problem. We've got the salmon back in place in Wefsna. We're using a lot of resources in Driva on a salmon barge. We still have projects in Drammenselva that we will have to implement. Luckily, I'm going to be in on Rauma in a short time. This has been a problem in Norway. It has been a big problem and a costly problem. Of course, it is a concern that the Vänern salmon has it, and how we can limit it, if we get so far as to get the free walk. I don't think I can answer any more about it than it has to be handled – simply. There would then be a risk assessment that would have to be based. Is there a risk of developing a risk of infection that could be far more negative than the positive one can get locally? There must be a central part of the assessments carried out as this project is to be carried out in the future. But the Vänern salmon was historically important, and it is important. This is a responsibility that both we and Sweden have to maintain biodiversity. The left-wing salmon, like the freshwater salmon it is, is unique in itself. I can't say anything but that this has to be one of the themes we're coming back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-24.ana.ud98e748	The interaction debate was closed.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-24.ana.ud98e760	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-24.ana.ud98e790	Case No. 2 and 3 were distributions. In Case No. 4 introduces no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-24.ana.ud98e804	There is no record available. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
