ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e100	The representatives Sigbjørn Gülsvik, Kent Gudmundsen, Eva Kristin Hansen and Alexander Stokkebø, who have been licensed, have once again taken their seats. Two permit applications are available: from the representative of Une Bastholm on welfare leave for the period from 26 March to 29 March from the Workers' Group on the Permit of the Representative Eirik Sivertsen from 27 March to 29 March to take part in the meeting of the Arctic Parliamentary Committee in Murmansk These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of Oslo, Per Espen Stoknes, there is an application for exemption from meeting in Stortinget under the leave of the representative of Une Bastholm due to illness. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the period of leave as follows: For Oslo: Kristoffer Robin Haug 26–28. March For the county of Nordland: Kjell-Idar Juvik 27-28. March
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e161	Kristoffer Robin Haug is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e172	From the Prime Minister's office there is the following letter to Stortinget, dated 15 March 2019: «Temporary transfer of responsibility for justice and immigration matters. In the Council of State on 15 March 2019, it was decided that Jon Georg Dale will assume responsibility for justice and immigration matters in the Ministry of Justice and Defence of the time when the Council of State of Tor Mikkel Wara is on leave.’ The President proposed that the referenced letter be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e199	The President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group, that there be no repetitions, and that those who have to sign on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e206	The Presidency has promoted a proposal for regulations that provides a new and better basis for good governance of the future construction projects of the Storting. In the summer of 2017, the Presidency set up a working group to propose the follow-up of the Riksrevision’s criticism of the Stortinget construction project – the Prince’s Gate 26, the tunnel and the postal and goods offices. The working group proposed inter alia: amendments to Storting’s Rules of Procedure and the establishment of a new regulation for the Storting’s handling of construction and rentals, which would also regulate the use of state buildings. Amendments to the Rules of Procedure were adopted before the summer of last year. The proposal on rules for the construction and rental of Storting is a follow-up to the Innst. S 406 for 2017-2018, where the Presidency recommended that State Building should as a general rule be the builder of major construction projects, numerically fixed in this setting for projects over 300 million. kr. The rules of procedure shall, inter alia, apply to: the main criteria to be used for the use of State buildings in future construction projects. The rules of procedure shall also ensure the proper preparation and management of the construction and lease matters of the Storting and shall describe the allocation of roles and responsibilities in such cases. The Presidency proposes, as stated, that State Building should, as a general rule, be the builder of the Stortinget in the case of large-scale construction projects. In the preparation of the Regulation, we have been guided by the State instructions on the handling of construction and leased goods. It has been necessary to make some regulatory adjustments on the basis of purely constitutional considerations, but also on the basis of the nature of the Storting. The main thing in the proposed regulation is that Stortinget receives the same assessment and quality assurance requirements as the rest of the civil sector. Such legislation has not been addressed to Stortinget in the past. The State instructions regulate the responsibilities between the government and the departments. This is regulated in the proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council in such a way that tasks added to the Ministry of Mission in the instructions of the State are added to the Director of the Stortinge in our Rules of Procedure. The decision-making levels added to the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and the Ministry of Modernisation or the Government in the State instructions are added to the Presidency of the Stortinge, except for the decision to start pre-projects for projects with an estimated value of more than 150 million. kr. This shall be submitted to the plenary assembly for decision. This means that, in the future, the plenary session will be more involved in decision-making for construction projects. I believe that the Stortinget in plenary should be involved early in new construction projects. Storing representatives are users of the building and should be involved in the assessments of key planning assumptions. Therefore, the Presidency proposes involving Stortinget in the start-up of construction projects with a cost framework of 150 million. kr. When a construction project is ready for the project, the presidency will present a case to the Stortinget, among others. say something about estimates of cost and measure of time and quality, environmental ambition and overall space and functional programme. The Presidency also proposes, as mentioned at the outset, that the State Building should be the builder of large construction projects. In concrete terms, the use of State Building is proposed when the cost framework of the construction project is 300 million. kr or more. We also suggest that Stortinget can request State Building to assume the building owner's responsibility for projects below 300 million. kr. There must be a concrete assessment of the size of the project, the complexity of the project, the requirements for administrative competence and administrative capacity. State buildings have professional resources from which it may be reasonable to take advantage, including in projects with a cost base lower than 300 million. kr. Finally, I would like to stress that this does not change the budgetary procedure for Stortinget. All projects requiring appropriations in addition to the ordinary operating budget will still be normally promoted in the annual budgets. This means that the Stortinget will have budget cases for all construction projects and other major investments requiring increased allocation, i.e. costs less than 150 million. kr. However, the rules on construction and leasing impose additional requirements on the early involvement of the Storting in major construction projects, i.e. with an estimated cost of more than 150 million. kr., where the Storting will decide on the start-up of pre-projects, i.e. before the money for the implementation itself is to be allocated. I recommend the Stortinget to adopt the presented regulations for the construction and rental business of Stortinget, and believe that it will contribute to better implementation of future construction projects and better anchoring of decisions in Stortinget in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e227	SV is not in the presidency, and that's why we need to express some point of view now. We are very pleased that there will be legislation – that state buildings will be responsible for large projects and could also be involved in smaller projects, and that rules will now be established for this. That's very good. Then the President-in-Office also says that we should set the same requirements as State Building sets. That's at the point we need to make some additional comments. We will also support the proposals promoted by the Red Group today. So this is the country's legislative assembly. This means that we have to go ahead in view of some of the important development requirements that we have in the future. This applies, for example: the project in the course of its follow-up and its outcome. It's about the fact that during the project you have to insure yourself against the crime of working life, as Red mentions in his proposals today, and we support that. It is absolutely necessary for the whole state to do so, but the Storting must take special responsibility for it. It also applies to climate, environment, energy efficiency and universal design. There's a lot in this house that's not universally designed, and everything we do next, must be it, for this house should be the people's house. The second point that we in SV for a while considered whether we should actually vote against in relation to these rules is about the land standards that the state has now set for its buildings. In the Municipal Committee, SV has opposed the land standards set by the State, precisely because they are too small. Too little space is set aside for workers, and excessive emphasis is placed on activity-based movements – as it is called – during the working day rather than on safe workplaces. Now there's a lot of talk about inclusion in the workplace. The government has even taken the initiative to include people with holes in the CV and a bit of poor health, and the jam thinks that people are going to work until they are both 67 and 70 years old – and maybe even longer. I guess you have to create jobs in the future where you don't have your own work force, your own chair, you have to hunt for a PC every day in a long working life, where you might also be encouraged to be able to stand up a little bit about healthier things. But it won't last. What we're going to build in the future is going to be good jobs for employees in this house who are going to be able to have their work day here, sail around the heels a little bit, and sail if you start to go a little bit in the years. It's not like this is something SV has found out. If you go in and look at the Health Council, no. 16/17, Jan Vilhelm Bakke, head of the Labour Inspectorate, and Knut Inge Fostervold, Dr. Psychol. and first amanuensis at the Psychological Institute of the University of Oslo, documented significant loss of efficiency, increased sick leave, impaired cooperation and poor working environment associated with these job concepts. Increased concentration and dissatisfaction over time are also reported. Therefore, SV will reserve itself against this way of thinking the planned working environment forward for those who need to have their work in this house – in addition to, of course, ensuring universal design at all points. I'm glad the president says that it's now going to be early involvement of the Storting in all of these cases, because it's important now that we take into account the actual expertise that's in this, and not blindly staring at the fact that there's going to be as few square meters as possible, but creating a working environment that makes it possible to meet the strict requirements we're now setting for people who are actually going to be able to stand in the workplace both for a long time and well and be able to go on the job while they're doing good. I also think there is reason to point out that when labour market experts say that the way to organise job concepts contributes to lower efficiency and poorer performance, Stortinget should listen. It should also apply to the rest of State activities.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e246	This case has a serious rear carpet. One of the first things I got the dubious honour of experiencing in close proximity was the building scandals of Storting, where a scandalous management of a building project in many stages and rounds applied a billion-dollar bill to the community. This has been dealt with in many rounds in the last year, and Red has in the process promoted more proposals for more transparency and savings in both the pay of politicians and the budget of the Stortinge, on which we did not get the majority. But the grip has been taken. The Presidency was required to increase the flow of information to the rest of the Stortinget. The administration gradually went through the economy to find current savings from this year on, and the then prime minister had to go off. What was said a little bit more disrespectful out there is that the builder Thommessen's tunnel was Olemic's doom. But the rug here is serious. It is about putting power politicians at the forefront of responsibility, and that mistakes must have consequences, including for politicians, not just for ordinary people, and not least that a functioning political system depends on confidence in the population. Trust can be a renewable resource, but it doesn't come of itself, it deserves trust. That's why we're constantly working for more transparency and more democracy and for the Storting to go ahead. That is why it is good that Stortinget has taken hold of it. Today we are dealing with the rules for the construction and rental business of Storting, but if we now adopt some clear leads for this, we should not believe that for that reason everything is in order. Let me mention 4.5.1 about cutting in the project as an example. The point says that there is to be a cut-off list in construction projects before it starts, that it is to be used to cover unforeseen costs. In the famous construction project, the presidency presented concrete proposals on savings, but the large parties on the Stortinget said no to these restrictions six times. This means that good structures and good regulation are important, but most importantly, it is followed up in practice by the parties on the Stortinget. In one more field, Red will want the Stortinget to go ahead. It's about a clean working life. We know that the construction sector is heavily affected by social dumping. Last year, the Stortinget strengthened, thanks to the opposition and the Christian People's Party, the rules of the Working Environment Act on hiring labour, and we imposed a ban on so-called zero-hour contracts. It was right and important. But then we see the misuse of unprofessional part-time contracts and job shares of 3, 5, 10 or 20 pst. Manning agencies are systematic, based on what we can see so far, and the problems are obviously greatest in the construction industry around the Oslofjord. It was recently a case of dubious rentals under the direction of the Storting. We're not going to have it like that. There was even the Progress Party out there and criticised, even though both the Advance Party and the rest of the bourgeois parties are at best on their backs in terms of temporaryity, recruitment agencies, rentals and a serious working life. Statsbygg's revised rules on seriousness state that the main weight of the work is to be made by permanent staff for at least 80 pst. position. Borrowed labour is not regarded as a permanent employee. Similar requirements are made in the so-called Oslo model for suppliers to the municipality. In addition, State-building requires the coverage of travel expenses, expenses and lodging for workers on average working hours. This will enter into force in the projects where the Stortinget uses State Building as a builder, but the Stortinget's own regulations are not as clear and lean on less effective regulations. Therefore, Red will propose that construction projects where the Stortinget is a builder should also have equivalent minimum requirements for permanent employees and for travel, diet and lodging. We also propose that rentals be included in the number of sub-contractors. We hope a majority will be with us on these proposals, so that the Storting will take the lead in the fight for a serious working life and against social dumping.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e267	The President then considers that the representative Bjørn Moxnes has taken up the proposals he referred to. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e274	The presentation we received from Grand President Wilhelmsen Troeen is in and on his own well and well, but it can also lead some people to believe that there is a lack of legislation that has been the big problem in connection with the construction case that lies as a back ground for this matter. It is quite simply that the then presidency was not fully aware of the Constitutional system that the Grand Duchy is granting authority, and that it had also not taken time to present the project it saw as a final project, which is a prerequisite for any successful construction project, namely that one knows where to go from a to, and not only between the annual budgetary procedures, which the Committee was allowed to process on a very economical basis, to say it very carefully. So this case for me -- yeah, it's probably a nice scratch in the Fernissen, and what you want now, but it doesn't answer the basics, namely, whether the presidency understands that it's the Storting that is granting authority, and that the Storting cannot and should not be able to delegate constitutional tasks of this kind. So I get a little worried when I hear words like that, like involving the Parliament, as if there's something that's almost happening at a ball, a reasonable liberalism on the part of the presidency, which is precisely because it's a six-man committee, to a lesser extent than the usual committees represent the Storting and reflect it. I have one specific question, and that is: have you thought that in this case, where you are asking for powers – and some of them are certainly in order, if there are implementing powers on the basis of authorizations given to the Stortinget – you are presenting the matter to the Financial Committee, which is now supposed to be a committee on budgetary matters? Nor is it satisfactory to say that only the usual budgetary procedures are referred to. The size is a decision-making machine for 1 400 billion. kr, and it is clear that we cannot have a personal view of all projects. But as far as what is happening here in the house is concerned, we demand more – I think it is quite reasonable that we are informed and get a case report that respects Storting's task as a granting authority also between the budgetary procedures. It's some of it that failed in its time. That's more to say about this matter. I would also like to ask how things are going with the other matters that Stortinget asked for when dealing with this matter in June 2017, where we also asked for a full review and also for a building account with two lines below.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e287	The history of what we are discussing today is very demanding. The future follow-up of the Stortinget and presidency is Document 18 for 2017-2018, which had a clear review with clear learning points on how the Stortinget in future construction projects should ensure both better pre-work and better anchoring. Changes to the Rules of Procedure were made before the summer, it was shown that State-building will be involved in projects worth more than 300 million. kr, but the presidency is very clear that this could also apply in projects below 300 million. kr. It has been clear that we now want a regulation on construction and rental matters, and that regulation is what we are dealing with today. It follows the State civil sector, with some exceptions. Among other things, we have in the position and in the regulation we are proposing today, we have been very clear that we want a much lower sum before the Stortinget is involved, that the Stortinget should be involved before the start of the project. It's just to assure us, as the representative Tetzschner was very clear, that the Storting needs to be involved early in this type of project. The Presidency believes that with this legislation, we are now getting more clarity about how we will deal with processes in the future, and there must also be reason to say that we have had considerable learning from what we have been through with the construction project. I believe that this legislation, along with the changes that have already been adopted, and the awareness that it is in the Storting around how we work on this kind of thing, with early anchoring, should guarantee that in the future we are better equipped to do this type of big project. So it's the way the Finance Committee gets all the budgets. The budgets of the Trustee and the Administrative Budget of the Trustee are dealt with in the Financial Committee, and through this the Financial Committee will also be transparent in all the smaller investment projects that the Trustee may launch.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e298	This post was not quite suitable for calming down, while saying that you have learned from the building scandal. Some of the things that were the learning moments there were just that they had not involved the Storting, and notice the expression ‘involves’. It's not a matter of involving the country's national assembly as a granting authority, but it's a matter of respecting the country's national assembly as a granting authority, and then the country's national assembly, the Stortinget, has to know what they're agreeing to. And then Stortinget can't give up an authorization to start a pre-project up to 150 million. kr. People who have things to do with successful construction projects know it's not about the project; it's about the project you're about to put on the water. Then you have to know where to – and not really have involved the Stortinget – and then you come up with these modern expressions as ‘an anchor’. That's another expression to sell in after the real decision has been made elsewhere, at least in my ears. So I ask again: have these changes in the rules – and many of them are certainly sensible, so this is not where the problem lies – been aired with the Committee on Budgets? Has the Committee on Budgets been addressed to the Storting, other than the major events, such as the presentation of the budget once a year, so that the Stortinge – the 169 – can have more concrete views of what is happening in our environment here? It's a governance scandal, as well as everything else. It's just to take into account the national audit report, which I think this legislation is not very relevant in relation to, because we've had rules before, too. It's just a matter of operating with respect for Storting's integrity. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e311	To this last exchange that has taken place here now, I can say that we do not perceive that this is a change in decision-making systems – where the Storting will make final decisions on the basis of documents that are credible and reflect both the cost and the content of the entire project. What I see as being now being said is that the process of moving towards decisions should involve broader – the mainstreaming groups, I assume, as well as the employees' organisations and structures – so that all the needs and views and the questions that had to be asked along the way are brought forward. So I can see that it's not part of the formalized process that's being mentioned here. It is clear that it is important that it is neat and proper, and that the Storting as a body makes decisions on the basis of documents that are not kind of negotiated consensus that it might be going well, but that there are actual figures, and that there is accountability behind it. I would like the President-in-Office to comment on the proposals to ensure that construction projects under the direction of Stortingen are not necessarily contributing to the crime of working life and to an unpaid working life. It's very important, because there have been examples where it's missed, even here, and there are examples where it's missing in the state. We have to go ahead. The second is whether the President-in-Office could comment on my post that was about a future working environment that should be inclusive, and where it should be possible to stand in the labour market if you have poor health, have some bad days, or start to go on years. Then it's necessary to have areas and spaces and arrangements that make it actually possible, and that now you don't rely on any work concepts that make it impossible to implement in the future. There are many such hips and modern theories coming, but it usually turns out that it works for a little while, for those who are young and spoken, but it rarely works in length. At least one must not have built something that cannot be changed to meet the needs of our employees in the future – and then the Storting must also be an inclusive workplace.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e320	I am very pleased that the presidency has come to the conclusion that State Building will be the builder of large projects. It's liberating that we've got yours. Thank you! With regard to what the representative Michael Tetzschner is addressing, I know that discussion well from the control committee, and I agree that the Stortinget must know what a yes to, and that the Stortinget must take the real decision. I interpret it this way: to make the real decision before expenses from outside are incurred by Stortinget. That's what's at the heart of it. The presidency is not an overarching one, the presidency is an administrative organisation that is equivalent and equal in relation to us as representatives. As regards proposal No: 1, from the Bears of Moxnes, Red, I want to comment on it. It is clear that the Storting must make demands on the person who carries out a job for the Storing, that is, the one who chooses to be a builder. To require that the main gravity of the work, including in construction projects where the Stortinget is the builder, be carried out by permanent employees for at least 80 pst. position, there is no strict requirement, because that is just that more than 50 pst. of those working, shall have permanent employment for at least 80 pst. position. Furthermore, it states that contracted labour is not regarded as a permanent employee. I expect that it means that there are no permanent employees of the contractor who have been commissioned. If the hired labour force is from a manning company, we know after the law of the day that everyone who is employed by a manning company will be employed in a permanent position. That's our understanding of it. As regards proposal No: 3 and the last sentence where – «Consent shall only be given if the employer covers travel expenses to/from the employee’s actual home and provides food and shelter.» – it is clear that the Stortinge as a builder can impose such requirements on those who are to carry out the work. When we are familiar with what happened in the workshop agreement, this is not the case after the workshop agreement as it was after ESA's over-control of the Supreme Court, but in our opinion, Stortinget can make such a claim for its construction projects. With regard to the first sentence, ‘The Presidency is asked to require the average calculation of working time to be applied for by the builder.’ So crew members can only hire permanent staff, and the fixed contract must state when to work, if it is a part-time job. Wages and salaries are payable for each month. One must have predictability of when to work, and one must have a monthly salary. If one then has more time, get an extra income. If you have overtime, you get overtime. That's the law, so it should be okay.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e336	To answer the question asked by the representative Karin Andersen, the Presidency does not implement the State's land standard in the Stortinge Code, precisely because we believe that Stortinge's premises will need to be adapted to the parliamentary activities, even if some areas are the administrative offices and the party groups' offices. There is also a need for proximity to the landfill building and for flexibility to re-disposal premises between the different groupings. So it turns out from the setting that we don't implement the country's land standard. In this respect, with seriousity requirements: There are major social dumping and labour crime challenges, especially in the construction industry, and a means of meeting them, to make demands that contribute to ensuring the seriousness of construction contracts. These are the seriousness requirements, or the seriousness provisions, which contribute to ensuring the seriousness of construction contracts and, in order to prevent unprofessional actors in Stortingen’s projects, the Stortingen Administration has decided to use the agreed safety provisions in the construction contracts applicable to the Stortingen. When State Building acts as a builder of the Stortingen building projects, State Building will conclude contracts and base its own rules of seriousness, and these provisions are already well established and well known in the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e343	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e348	It's right in these points that we're now being invited to adopt, to base these land standards as far as they fit. And then – until proven otherwise – I get to interpret the President positively – not only for the sake of parliamentarians and political groups, but also because the general working environment for all employees in this house is to be taken into account. That is what we are concerned about when we say that the work concept in the long term is not good for the working environment, for inclusion and for efficiency. That's why we want to get back to it in the individual projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e353	The representative Michael Tetzschner has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e358	I noticed that I did not get an answer to them – I think – fairly specific questions that were asked, and I can only take note of the fact that you are not prepared to do so. You can interpret it positively and say that there may be problems that are not entirely considered in their full consequence, but I think the Stortinget would be well served not to say that it is finally done with the regulation, but that one looks very carefully through how we can connect the right budgetary committee into these considerations. Because it's not satisfactory, as a representative, I think, to get these matters directly in plenary from the presidency. And with the history of sub-information, in order to use a mild expression, I think we need to get to a system where you respect Storting's appropriations. That means that you know what you're giving money to, and that everyone understands the basis on which money you've provided.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e365	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e381	The President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no loopholes, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e401	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e410	There is a cross-political consensus that the community must set up through solidarity mechanisms in order to create a society with a place for all and to facilitate everyday life for families with high needs for care and for children with serious illness or disabilities. A democratic, equal and fair society offers equal opportunities and is organized so that we can all live free and independent lives. Providing universal design for societal development provides a better and more equal environment for people with temporary and long-term disabilities. Even I was very happy that I could use the armchair here on the floor when I met in Stortinget for a month with my broken leg. A universally designed society is not an action for the few, but it facilitates all of us. With that in mind, we are creating a good foundation for them with more need for organization. The family shall be met by public services which work with them, guide and support them and provide relief where necessary. Today's legislation gives municipalities an obligation to assess help for families with special needs, but reality shows that this often does not work well enough in practice. A new obligation collates and clarifies the responsibilities of municipalities towards those with special care. The provision of services by municipalities should help relatives to provide good care for their loved ones, but also for themselves. So far, the Committee agrees – before we are separated and have a little different devices for solutions. The majority of the Committee, the Right, the Party of Advances, the Left and the Christian People's Party, recommends that the proposals not be adopted – not because we do not support the intention behind more of them, but because we believe that something has already been done, but needs to be better implemented, and that something is already under way, such as this. the Universal Design Action Plan. This shall be evaluated in the year before it is further developed in order to follow up the government’s gender equality strategy for persons with disabilities for the period 2020-2030. The government platform states that all families should be able to create a secure framework around their lives. In particular, families with a high level of care needs shall be provided with the assistance they require, so that everyday life becomes just a safe environment for the family and around the individual. Strengthening and safer families with freedom of choice and flexibility to choose solutions that are best for themselves and their children shall be facilitated. The Government shall implement an equivalence reform in order to make it easier for families with children with special needs. This will ensure equal opportunities for personal development, participation and life development for all. The authorities shall ensure proper coordination in order to ensure the rights of disabled persons. We know that the system can be perceived as demanding, despite the fact that the right to the coordinator is statutory. Work must be done for a comprehensive and coherent offer tailored to individual needs, an individual plan, and the responsibilities of municipalities to ensure user and family involvement must be clarified. Parents waiting for children with special needs shall be entitled to a legal right to the coordinator already during pregnancy, including entitlement to comprehensive guidance and organisation. The government will introduce a coordinator guarantee to ensure families a qualified coordinator who can contribute to the development of an individual plan and ensure access to existing assistance services. There is no doubt that dependants are an important resource in healthcare. For this reason, the government is required to present its own family strategy, whereby the right to parental training for all parents of disabled children is to be legislated – on the basis of parental training as parents of children with hearing impairment and diabetes. This has been developed by Statped and the rehabilitation service in cooperation with user organisations. The Government shall also investigate a system of housewives in case of short-term illness in relatives of children with high needs for care. However, we recall that the municipalities are already obliged to provide practical assistance at home, including for older people, disabled people, families with children and others who need it. In addition, a user-guided relief shall be developed and tested according to the user-guided personal assistance model, currently used in the municipality of Sola. The majority want to look at alternative maternity leave schemes for parents with multiple births or children with special needs, in order to support these families at first, as the need is often greater. Finally, the majority point to Norway’s commitment to comply with the UN Convention on People with Disabilities, regardless of its implementation in Norwegian law. In the past, the majority of the majority of the population have concluded that Norway should not accede to the optional protocols, among others. because, in some areas, the UN CRPD Committee appears to interpret the Convention in a way that is not in accordance with the understanding of Norway and the other States. That is why we believe that rights are better protected as they are managed today, and that we should stick to the implementation of the Stortinget opted for the Convention in spring 2013. I thank the Cooperation Committee and look forward to the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e433	Thanks to the case rapporteur, but allow me to say that when representatives of the government parties start their posts by saying ‘we all agree on this’, there is reason to tighten up the senses, because then there is usually something between the lines. In this case, I also believe that the biggest thanks have been earned by the proposers, because they highlight the situation of families with great care needs. Especially vulnerable are parents of disabled children. Nevertheless, we are constantly seeing examples of how these parents have to spend a lot of time managing their everyday life and fighting the systems to secure children’s rights in school, in leisure and at home – and that should not be the case. These families deserve our attention. They really deserve to be seen and heard. But unfortunately, this is not always the case, even in the case we have to deal with today. The majority argue that minority proposals are not adopted. The government parties, the Right, the Party of Advancement, the Left and the Christian People's Party, are pleased to point out fine wording in the Granavolden platform that families with great care and care needs will experience the help they need, but do not promote a single proposal here today on how they think it should happen – on the contrary. It's beginning to be a feature of the Solberg government that every year they find new places where they can cut into the social welfare schemes of these families. The craziest way is the lack of price adjustment of the rates in the public interest. The last time we asked, these cuts represented almost 300 million. kr. It was in 2017. And the corresponding cut has happened every year since that. There has also been a cut in the auxiliary equipment intended to assist these families, of the same size, and the entire system has been removed with a pen stroke, such as the car support system for group 1 cars. Improvements in the care allowance system were far behind. It was not until after long-standing pressure from the opposition, but above all from representatives of the parent group themselves, that something happened, but not all decisions from the Stortinget have yet been fulfilled in that case either. Fortunately, the majority of the population has been able to stop a weakening of the facility. The government was given a stop order when it came to taking responsibility for aid out of popular concern and transferring responsibility to the municipalities. That's what we got before the Christian People's Party joined the government. What it's like now is not good to say. Basic and auxiliary benefits are cut, even though we know that it costs to be disabled. In addition, increased excesses in the health system are related to physiotherapy, cut into the blue prescription system, cut into children’s supplements and tightened up the possibilities for a second year at public high school for people with developmental disabilities, even though the Storting has put its foot down and said it should not happen. Fortunately, before the last government enlargement, the Stortinget managed to decide that we should have a big message about human rights for people with developmental disabilities. Otherwise it wouldn't be any of them either. The Stoltenberg II government provided a plan for a universally designed Norway by 2025. That deadline has been removed by the Solberg administration. We suggest that we repair that damage. A lot of time is unfortunately lost. So the proposal from the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party is that we have an accessible Norway in 2025 and a universal society by 2035, it will facilitate the everyday life of many of the families we're talking about here, but it'll once again be voted down here today. The rights attaching of user-controlled personal assistant is a matter of government often boasts, but the scheme does not function as intended. It is time for the planned review of the scheme to begin, and it is obvious that the organisations of the disabled are involved in the sample for the investigation. Unfortunately, it has been difficult for organisations to reach out with demands to be involved in matters relating to them. It has become better, correct, but only after strong pressure, both from the organisations themselves and from the staging opposition. The opposition believes that there is a need for a comprehensive review of the arrangements for parents with sick children and children with special needs, including the development of the family week scheme, as these parents themselves ask, but we are therefore also encouraged to do so. Finally, we propose that the House Bank's arrangements for the accommodation of families with high needs for care should be proportionate to the needs of families. Some people need major conversions due to space-consuming aids such as: wheelchairs, but no, even here we're going to be downgraded. Instead, the government has also worked there with the idea of transferring more of the responsibility to the municipalities. I refer to the proposals we are on, plus signals that we also support SV's solution proposal No. 12, which we consider to be in practice the same thing as in proposal No. Four, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e456	Then the representative Lise Christoffersen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e461	I would like to begin by welcoming the Council of State to his first debate with the Labour and Social Committee. The proposers in the case today are concerned with caring for families with major care challenges, and they are drawing up different situations to illustrate the idea behind them. There is no disagreement that families with high needs should receive public assistance and support. On the contrary: there is a great deal of agreement on this, and it is therefore gratifying that all these proposals have already been implemented. Municipalities are already obliged under the Health and Welfare Services Act to provide practical assistance. This practical assistance includes both home help and other support services for the elderly, disabled, families with children and others who need help and provides assistance for practical domestic tasks. We know, however, that many relatives are struggling with heavy care tasks, which is why the government has already taken care of. As stated in the letter of reply from the Council of State, the government has chosen to ensure that the care personnel are given a clear place in healthcare through a new obligation that brings together and clarifies the responsibilities of the municipality towards those who have a heavy care job. Parents waiting for children with special needs shall be given a statutory right to the coordinator already during pregnancy. This includes a comprehensive guide. In addition, the government has said that a guarantee should be introduced for these families, so that they can be safe to obtain a qualified coordinator when the need arises. Also housewives or family vicars are already determined to be investigated. For example, a family vicar may be a member of the family. act as a relief and assistance in the event of a short-term illness in relatives of seriously ill children. To the question of whether BPA should be added to the population's privacy, it seems to me that it is natural to wait for the investigation already announced. The system shall be reviewed to see whether it is functioning as it intends to do, and the Minister for Older People and Public Health will present the way in which such an investigation is to be conducted. In such an investigation, it would also be natural for other questions about what should be added to the population's fear. With regard to the proposal to incorporate the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, the CRPD, and to give them priority, Norway is already obliged to comply with the Convention, regardless of how it is implemented in Norwegian law. The proposers further call for an action plan for an accessible Norway. Also this is to turn open doors. There is already a strategy for gender equality for people with disabilities for the period 2020-2030, where universal design is an important part. The government has also presented an action plan on universal design 2015–2019, which is now to be evaluated and laid the basis for further work. So there is no disagreement about the intentions of the proposal, but it already opens doors.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e484	I would like to thank the proposers for proposing measures for families with high care needs. For the Central Party, it is an important part of family policy that the community assists families in vulnerable situations. The centre party suggests that family care is generally referred to as the ‘invisible care’, which is hardly recorded in statistics, processing, national accounts or public investigations, despite the fact that it has an annual work effort of the size of the public care service. The approx. Today’s 100,000 year-olds are crucial for our health care as a whole and contribute to shared well-being and value creation. However, many relatives today struggle between job obligations and family care and experience that care obligations go beyond their own work situation and vice versa. From studies of relatives we know that up to 50 pst. seas develop health problems. The centre party points to the fact that, in its country-wide study in 2010, the health authorities found that the municipalities were consistently not carteling and assessing the care burdens, the situation and the need for de-loading of their dependants. There is little reason to believe that this has become much better today. We also refer to the National Audit Office’s survey on the availability and quality of care for the elderly, Document 3:5 for 2018–2019, which showed that the elderly are being provided with health and care services without properly addressing their needs and wishes. The needs of family members were not characteristically covered by the study. The central party notes that the government will present a related strategy, but without the government anchoring in the Stortinget what a new and modern policy will actually contain, and what this will require financially. We point out that the municipality has a new obligation that brings together and makes clear its responsibilities to those who have a particularly burdensome care job, but at the same time we want to make it clear that, by introducing this new obligation, the government assumed that there would be no financial or administrative consequences. The new obligation was mainly a continuation of existing family support, combined in a new provision, where the care pay scheme changed its name to care assistance. We believe that the new obligation provision is not sufficient to strengthen the situation of relatives, and we believe that there is a great need to strengthen the care aid scheme. We also believe that the government should follow up the proposals of the Kaasa Committee to establish a system of statutory family support, which always assesses its users and relatives, and on this basis a related contract is concluded – an agreement between the municipality and the relative. We agree with the proposers that multiple families need stronger support from society than most other families, because the burden is greater. At the same time, we believe that other families with children may also need support for shorter or longer periods of time, if for example: one or both parents become ill, in families with children, or in the case of one or more children. It is a public responsibility to assist such families of children when they need it. It follows from today's law to organise practical assistance at home, but the Central Party believes that today's provisions for this need to be clarified. Therefore, we believe that municipalities should be given a statutory obligation to provide family vicars for young children’s parents who have a specific need for assistance in emergency and special situations, and we propose this. I therefore refer to proposal No. 5, which is the proposal of the Centre Party. Furthermore, the Central Party agrees with the Workers' Party on proposal No. 4, i.e. that the loans and guarantees of the House Bank and grant schemes for the adaptation of the dwelling are strengthened and that the responsibility for this field lies with the House Bank. As a result of our agreement to proposal No. 4, I can't see that there is a need for SV's loose proposals that have been distributed. It is an unnecessary proposal, and we therefore see no reason to support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e505	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e510	This proposal has been submitted to demonstrate the need for a holistic plan, review and improvement for families with extra large and burdensome care tasks. When a family has a child with more care and care than usual, this often reverses family life. The same applies when, for example: have twins or vibrations, or when a parent of a large family becomes seriously ill. There are many conditions in a family that can make the situation more stressful, and we are lucky in Norway, which has a community that sets up in most situations. We need to develop this community further so that it can ultimately apply to all. SV believes that it is time to provide better facilities for the families who get a seriously ill parent, with some kind of family vicar scheme, a person who can help a family in a demanding everyday life. In the design of this proposal, we have been in close dialogue with several of the organizations involved, which are made up of people who know well where the shoe is printed, among other things. Handcuffing their parents, the lions' mothers, and the children of Uloba. There are several suggestions from SV in the configuration. When it comes to the support scheme from the House Bank for adapting housing for families with special needs, we have made a loose proposal that is something different from that of the Center Party and the Labour Party, simply because we think that this must be a system that should apply to all, not just to those with particularly poor advice. Adapting the housing of a child with a wheelchair can be an unimaginable expense for families with average income or a little above it. In the case of a user-controlled personal assistant, this should initially be a mechanism to enable an equal participation in the community of people with disabilities. We are told from several quarters that it is quite different both how the system works and not least how it is measured for hours. With our proposal to include this right in public opinion, it will be possible to become more standardised and fair allocation of user-driven personal assistant. At the same time, we see that this system is used differently, and can also be extended in its scope to serve different needs. It could be e.g. help with household washing, easier medical assistance, participation in leisure activities or a combination thereof. We have submitted proposals on how this can be done in practice, but we also see that we need to investigate something more before SV can decide how such an extended BPA scheme could be of the best benefit to families with sick children, for example, in addition. On this basis, we draw proposal No. 9th@item: inlistbox Finally, SV proposes to incorporate the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities into the Human Rights Act in their Health. This is a matter of course for us to do. People are people. When it comes to ILO conventions dealing with workers' rights, the Labour Party is always involved. I think there's good reason to be disappointed that the Labour Party is voting against this today. I also take up the other suggestions from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e529	The representative of Solfrid Lerbreck has addressed the proposals to which she referred, and also stated that proposal No. 9 is drawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e534	This is a good thing. I like the case because it is so well known in the Christian People's Party. When the Christian People's Party negotiated the government platform, it was just to create a society with room for everyone – it was a main effort – we know this reality from people we're in contact with. As a society, we have a responsibility to create a simpler everyday life for families with high care needs and children with severe illness or disabilities. That is why we have fought many good actions in this area, with which the government is now coming back to the Storting. The government will implement an equivalency reform that will make it easier for families with children with special needs. Through this we shall ensure equal opportunities for personal development, participation and life for all. Yes, people are different, and so the reform is going to show that all people have equal value. We've gotten a lot of these relationships into the Granavolden platform. The Government will introduce a coordination guarantee to ensure that families with children with special needs are secured by a qualified coordinator, who can contribute to the development of an individual plan and ensure access to the necessary facilities. The Government shall present its own related strategy, including the legalisation of the right to parental training for all parents of disabled children, on the basis of parental training as parents of children with hearing impairment and diabetes, developed by Statped and the rehabilitation service. User organisations shall be included. The Government shall further establish a scheme of housewives in the case of short-term illness in relatives of children with high needs for care. Municipalities are already obliged, under the Health and Welfare Act, to provide practical assistance and assistance at home. I would also like to mention alternative maternity leave schemes for parents who have multiples or children with special needs. The BPA scheme shall be defined as an equality tool for participation in society in line with others, and a user-driven relief shall be developed and tested, following the model of the right to user-driven personal assistance. In the Granavolden platform, we have also agreed that a NOU will be implemented to ensure that the BPA system works as intended. Yeah, that's nice words, but that's where we have to start, because just as Lundtigen also says, we can't start a project without having quality assurance and knowing what the need is. That's why a NOW is very important. I hear criticism from the Workers' Party, but I remember that – I have been in a local government for many periods – all the reforms that were started and not funded, started in the way that we planned and planned, and the hope of funding, which sometimes came, or unfortunately was lacking. These matters will stand behind the Christian People's Party and assist as far as it goes in order for all this to be followed up. The Government’s Universal Design Action Plan 2015–2019 will be evaluated in 2019, precisely to find the status, where the path continues for a universally designed society. It will form the basis for the work of the government to come back with. Furthermore, the government will develop a model to ensure that there is a housing offer for people with disabilities and will require municipalities to facilitate the transition from childhood homes to owner-occupied housing. That's how I could keep going. But I am sure that this was negotiated and taken well into the Granavolden platform, and it takes care of the intention that has come up here today. Therefore, the Christian People's Party will vote against the proposals and stand for what the government does.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e563	I want to pay tribute to the proposers to raise issues to create a society with room for everyone, a society where families with great care needs get a simpler everyday life with a safe environment. It includes both multiple families and families with children with disabilities or severe illness. This is an engagement the government shares. That is why the government's policy is offensive in this area. And that is why, as many have mentioned, we are going to carry out the equivalency reform. I will briefly review the proposals and explain what the government is doing and plans to do for families with great care needs. ‘Family vicar’ is not a term used anymore. The term ‘practical assistance’ is used at home in the Health and Welfare Act. It includes home help and other assistance for the elderly, families with children, people with disabilities and others who need help. This is far more than that of a formerly called family and housewife, and what it could offer. The government will implement an equivalency reform and introduce a coordinator's guarantee. These measures shall ensure that families with a high level of care are helped to draw up an individual plan, that these families have access to existing assistance services and that there is a coordinator who takes the fight for them. The second proposal in the proposal for a representative concerns the system of user-led personal assistant, BPA, and its inclusion in the public interest. In the Granavolden platform, we state that BPA should become a gender equality tool. The BPA scheme shall contribute to the contribution and participation of people with disabilities in society in the same way as others. The BPA scheme shall be investigated in a separate NOU, and the investigation will also look at participation in leisure activities, not only on assistance to the practical tasks of daily life in households and personal care, as is the case today. The proposers ask for rapid and effective help from the families concerned, including financial support to adapt their housing. It is the municipalities that are closest to families both daily and when the need for help arises. In my opinion, therefore, the municipalities are also well suited to seeing the need for care and care in connection with other assistance, such as: adapted housing, the need for facilities, loans and grants of different varieties. The government is concerned about providing good housing for people with disabilities, and municipalities should help to facilitate good transitions from the childhood home to an owner-occupied dwelling. The proposers also request that the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities be incorporated into the Human Rights Act and given precedence in Norwegian law, and that the government submit a new action plan for a universally designed society by 2035. In the Granavolden platform, we say that we will present a new action plan for a universally designed society in 2020. We are now evaluating the current plan, so that we can have the best possible starting point for creating a good and accurate new plan. The new plan will also build on the experience of the current action plan. In 2013, the majority addressed the possible incorporation of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities into the Human Rights Act. At that time, the majority of the population concluded that Norway would not join the UN optional protocols. This Decision shall continue to apply. The Granavolden platform states that all families should be able to create secure frames around their own lives. Safe and predictable frameworks are particularly important for families with high care needs. For this reason, the government is to carry out the equivalency reform, so that these families are given the help they need, and to be sure that society stands up for them when the life situation requires it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e584	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e589	Like the committee chairman, I would like to welcome the Council of State to his first exchange of views with our committee. I thought I was going to grab hold of what the Council of State said in its statement, that one should now evaluate the action plan for a universally designed Norway, and see how one should go further. Then I want to go back a few years in time, more specifically on 21 March 2017. Then the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre promoted a proposal to ‘propose an action plan for an accessible Norway in 2025 and a universally designed society by 2035’. It was voted down by the Right, the Advance Party and the Left. The Christian People's Party and the Green Party voted in favour of a new time celebration. The Christian People's Party will vote against today. Does the Council of State think it's okay?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e596	First: Thank you for your greetings and welcome to Stortinget. It is such that when one comes to the government, one feels that there are things one would like to see implemented, which are not implemented. But the total of the Christian People's Party has been created in the negotiations is – as the representative Tuskedal explained well in his speech – very good. That's why I'm proud of what to do, including in terms of universal design. I think it is important that a person should go through the action plan that has been, in a good way, and that a teacher of it, get good experience, so that one can make an even better action plan in the future. After looking at the problem that lies ahead of us, one sees that it is very demanding. It will require great efforts — economically, but also practical — to implement what is needed to achieve a universally designed society, but we have a clear ambition that we will succeed in doing so. We're supposed to be offensive, even if we're not voting for a time-fortification today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e607	I thank you for your answer. The council said the total was good. With regard to the timing of universal design, it is not the only matter in which the Christian People's Party votes differently after they came into government. There are some who pay the price of the Christian People's Party's entry into government, and the disabled are obviously one of those groups. Is there any of the families with great care needs that will benefit from the Christian People's Party coming into government? If so, who is it?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e614	If there is one field that was clearly raised, and that was given a separate chapter in the platform, it is the field of equivalency and the creation of a society with space for all. So I want to say that both those who have children who want special needs, and those who have them today, will be lifted through the work that the government is doing, and what we're going to do. Take the BPA scheme, which is incredibly important to so many people to be able to participate in society. It was this government that introduced in 2015, and it probably also gave over 0.5 billion. SEK in grants to municipalities in 2015 and 2016, just to give more people the opportunity to participate in the same line – or participate more – in society. It shall now be attached as an equal status scheme. I believe that the coordinator’s guarantee – which is to enter both during pregnancy in order to prepare the situation that may come, and also to take several of the fights for these families and these individuals when they are to have their rights and relief measures, which they all claim – will be very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e621	Governments have a positive attitude towards action against families with a high level of care needs. We have heard here many times that the Solberg government has a different attitude to the opposition's proposal than the red-green government had. It has been stressed very strongly that you should not vote down everything that comes from the opposition. Now we are in a situation where the Centre Party has made a proposal where a ‘calls on the government to propose a statutory obligation for municipalities to offer family vicars to families with special needs for assistance in acute and special situations’ – i.e. a targeted action. It is a statutory obligation to offer. My question is: What does the Council of State disagree with in that proposal, proposal No. 5, which makes one, by the government parties, want to vote it down?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e628	Thank you for an important question. As I said in my post, the arrangement that was, and the terms «housewife» or «family weeks», are out of date. What's in it today is much more extensive. We're going to investigate it and look at it, and I believe that whatever the case, that work should be done before a law is passed. The centre party is well aware that it can be demanding for the municipalities when a person adopts just a lot of these different laws. I also said that we are working on our own family strategy. It's not ready, but when a person is working on it, I think it's important that one looks at how a person as a society can give the relatives the best possible help. We'll get back to that. So as far as that proposal is concerned, it's important to get it well established before you decide.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e635	When people hear the word ‘strategy’ and in this case the word ‘related strategy’, there is nothing you can do, as the Council of State keeps it there. One doesn't know what that is. Now, when the Council of State says that the term ‘practical assistance at home’ includes something more than a family vicar can do, I cannot, with my life experience, understand what is in that expression. This is a game of words and concepts. Realities are the same. We know what needs to be done for those people and families who come up in such acute situations. My question is: Had the government been able to support proposal No. 5, from the Center Party, if we had replaced «family vicars» with «practical assistance at home»?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e644	No, and whatever the representatives here in Stortinget have to make an opinion about it. However, the point is, as the representative Lundtägen pointed out in his contribution, that there is an obligation in the Health and Welfare Services Act that clarifies the responsibilities of the municipalities. I am concerned that the relatives will receive the best possible help, and the government platform is offensive. There's a lot of space devoted to the relatives in the new government platform. It is also a part of this in the process of equal opportunities reform. That work is well done by the government, but that work has to be completed before you know exactly what it's like. If one calls it one thing or the other, it's not the big thing – I agree with the representative Lundtägen in – but my point was just that when it comes to one often thinking about the concept of housewives, today's situation and what we're thinking about is better and more than what was.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e651	Today, people from Norway happen to be in Geneva to get an assessment of how Norway manages human rights for people with disabilities. Of course, we have a lot of criticism, and they say in a letter I received today that the UN CRPD Committee is shocked that Norway will not incorporate the entire CRPD Convention into Norwegian legislation. Norway also gets criticism that disability is referred to more as a patient than a full human being. Is it not the government's objective that Norway should assert itself internationally in this area as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e659	Yes, absolutely, and Norway is – I would say – very far ahead in terms of the human rights situation. As I said in my post, this matter was dealt with in 2013, and then it was well – as far as I know – only SV and perhaps the Left who voted for one to incorporate the entire convention. Whether one does so in one way or another, the Storting is very clear that the human rights and the rights of disabled people must be fulfilled. It does one in today's law, and it does one in a good way. I believe that when it comes to what the Storting decided at the time, and what I understand is that the Storting is today going to vote against by a large majority, it is not contrary that a person wants to fulfil the rights of people with disabilities. On the contrary, I am experiencing an offensive boom and a good debate even today, where all parties are committed to finding good solutions for how to make society even better and create a society with room for all.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e666	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e673	I also wish the Council of State to welcome Ropstad, but he is wrong. He's wrong when he says it doesn't matter if Norway implements the CRPD into the law on human rights, as we've done with the other laws on the Women's Convention and the Children's Convention. Unfortunately, Ropstad is not alone either. There is a large majority here who are wrong, and there is a large majority who are afraid, for no reason, to put in place some mechanisms in Norway that deal with complaints systems for individuals. This is about equalising the human rights of people with disabilities with the human rights of the others. I hear the Christian People's Party talk a lot about equivalency and value. It'll cost you nothing. It's equality that costs, and that's the government and more in the majority backs. I heard the representative from the Progress Party were up and said that this proposal was about closing open doors. I sincerely hope that none of the families living in this situation heard that post, because it's embarrassing when we know how big a problem many of these families have just with lack of offer, lack of coordination and lack of help in the critical situations where they themselves have to stand on, 24 hours a day, to get this together. This is one of the reasons why SV has granted more money to municipalities in general, more money for particularly resource-intensive services, more money for several of these areas, and that we have proposed, unlike the government, that user-driven personal assistance must be part of the facility and funded by the public interest. Then it becomes a equality tool, and that's what it should be. So there might be different ways to organise it in practice, and it's right that the government has this legalized. But what happened afterwards? The scheme has become worse, it has been examined. For this reason, it is necessary to have a regulatory attachment, which means how this is to be interpreted. But even so, you can vote against it. And I think I have to say it: this isn't about people with special needs, this is about people who need exactly the same thing as all of us who are here. They just need a little help to get their family life and their everyday lives to go around. Then we have to deal with this as a gender equality theme. This is about being able to get up and go to work and do all the usual things with a little more help than what they get today. So the Universal Design Action Plan: it has to have an end point, and I think the Council of State now spoke up and said that you should have an end point by 2020 – it's very ambitious, but it's coming. But it has to be an end point, but you don't get to any goal you don't sit down.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e688	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e704	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is the rapporteur on the matter, Mr Nordby Lunde.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e715	Shall I have posts now?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e720	It is in the position that Heidi Nordby Lunde is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e725	I'm sorry for the confusion there for a little while. The Code on Professional Indemnity is something that has been tried to change for a long time, without any agreement being possible. The social partners have been working on a professional injury reform for more than 15 years, where a public body has submitted proposals for a fundamental reform of the current system, as well as the Ministry has over the years explored several possible alternatives. Everyone agrees that today's system is not perfect, but the parties have failed to agree on instruments that can relieve today's inadequacies. During the consultation on the proposal, neither the employer nor the employee side was clearly in favour of the proposal... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e736	The President will draw attention to the fact that the representative is making statements on the wrong case. She makes the following observations on the case No. 5, while we're on case number. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e741	I am sorry, I have to get the correct post and fix it that caused the confusion.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e746	Heidi Nordby Lunde has the floor for case No. 4
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e751	Despite the fact that the committee shares already after the reference to the proposal itself in the vote, I think I should take the opportunity to say that there is nevertheless a cross-political objective of a well-organised working life with tidy pay and working conditions. The opposition would not support the sentence ‘fixed and direct employment is and should be the general rule of Norwegian working life, as expressly stated in Section 14-9 of the Working Environment Act.’. However, the first sentence of Section 14-9 of the Working Environment Act is: «Worker must be employed permanently.» Furthermore, it was not possible to bring together the Committee to write that from 1 January this year the law also contains a definition of what it means to be employed permanently, and that other forms of employment are exceptions requiring specific conditions to be met, despite the fact that the proposal to clarify the concept of workers in the Working Environment Act was adopted by the Stortingen last year. It is no surprise that it was not possible to bring together the Committee behind the reference to Fafo Report 2018:38, which shows that fixed employment in practice is also the general rule in Norwegian working life. Only 11 pst. by persons employed are temporarily employed, hired or self-employed without employees. On the other hand, what we agree, if not in the form of a common note, is that it should not be possible for employers to organise themselves away from employer responsibility. With new forms of organisation and digital platforms for mission and activity, we as politicians should be very much aware that this does not happen. There are differences in more efficient ways of connecting needs and resources to missions, such as going from offering services on a patch of cork boards in the nearby store to using a digital platform, and organising business away from regular employees. The first creates opportunities, the second can undermine them. We'll be on guard against that. However, the majority believe that today’s work environment law is a good and preventive vaccine against an unprofessional labour market none of us wants. However, changes and trends in the labour market may over time lead to the need for changes to existing legislation to ensure that it confers the rights and protection of Norwegian workers according to the intention of the law. This was also tried at the Supreme Court in the case between Norwegian Air Shuttle ASA and Norwegian employees, who were represented by the YS-Association Parat. The employer is defined in the Working Environment Act as ‘any person who has employed an employee to do work in his/her service’. Usually, the legal entity of the employer will coincide with the activities of the employer. An extension of the concept of employer, inter alia: to group companies and other dominant companies, inter alia. assessed in the preparatory work of the current work environment law. The Ministry then found that an extension was not desirable, among other things. because, in the vast majority of cases, the law and the case law are binding on the location of the effective decision-making authority. Under the law in force, there is also a certain opening for employers' responsibilities to be placed with more people after a specific assessment if there is a specific basis for doing so. This may affect employee participation and participation, which proposers wish to strengthen. The Government has launched a research project to examine precisely how participation and participation are being practised in Norwegian working life today, including whether fundamental rights and arrangements are affected by changes in working life. The mission has been allocated to Fafo and the final report shall be delivered by the end of 2020. As regards the enforcement of rentals, it was notified in Prop. 73 L for 2017-2018 that the Ministry is examining how, through official controls, the authorities can strengthen the enforcement of the rental rules, including non-discrimination rules. At the same time, this work follows up several requests decisions from Stortinget. The government has set up a selection of Norwegian aviation, such as: shall assess the impact on aviation workers of new business models and changes in employee relationships. We therefore believe that the proposals we are discussing today are either taken care of by existing legislation and legal work, or that the government is now gaining a very good background in order to assess whether or what changes are necessary to ensure a safe and well-organised working life with clean pay and working conditions. The majority therefore recommend that the proposals are not adopted as they stand today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e787	If we are to have a society with little differences and high trust, it is absolutely vital to have a safe and fair working life, with full, permanent jobs and a wage you can live on. It is then essential that we have an organised working life, with responsible parties, where the authorities set up with safe economic governance, with the well-being and legislation that ensures security, and where employers set up by contributing to a serious working life and cooperation. It has been crucial for Norway to have succeeded in the outstanding results we have in working life, and not least in major changes, such as: through the solidarity option in the 1990s, when Norway managed to deal with massive unemployment with strong and committed tripartite cooperation in order to get social machinery going. If this cohesion, trust and adaptability are weakened, Norway’s opportunities will also be weakened in the future. It's enough to see what's happening in other countries, for example. in French streets, where workers have experienced a working life that is ruined, that you may be poor even if you are in full employment, and have to have more jobs to get the ends to meet, where you are out of competition by cheap foreign labour, and where politicians have forgotten them, and save the banks and the financial industry, but cuts in social benefits. These are challenges that may seem far away, but every time the right-hand side comes to power in Norway, we see that they implement weakened rights for workers in the legislation, that they cut social benefits and impose higher taxes on ordinary workers, and that they weaken the trade movement through, among other things. to make it more expensive to be organised — in Norway, in Scandinavian countries, in European countries. Therefore, it is clearly not a cross-political objective to have a well-organised working life, with neat pay and working conditions, as Heidi Nordby Lunde just claimed. I think it would have been neat if the Right dared to admit that they would actually have a different social model and a different working life, but they dare not, because they know that then they are thrown out of government offices immediately. As a result, more and more employers act more irresponsiblely. More people start renting over fixed employment. Many run part-time over full-time, and we see too many people trying to get away with responsibility. Right-wing policies, together with aggressive employers, are today the biggest threat facing Norwegian working life. It brings out the worst in capitalism and the ambitions of free movement, where power gathers on few hands and workers have to compete for ever worse pay and working conditions. Regulation is therefore absolutely necessary. In the Free Trade Movement today, Norwegian-pilot Oddbjørn Holsether tells: ‘By being transferred to one of the three Norwegian Pilot Services companies in Scandinavia, the group has managed to disconnect us from the values and operations. Now we are only employed in a staff agency that only leases out to the group and has no other customers." He also says, ‘Norway is on its way to a labour society.’ That's the core of this discussion. That is what we are discussing today. In fact, there are a number of other employers who organise operations in ways that avoid taking responsibility for their employees. If this remains, it will get stuck in Norwegian working life and become impossible to get rid of. It will spread like weeds to several parts of the world of work. That is why, as legislator, we need to do what we can to ensure a safe and fair working life, which is also stated in the Supreme Court judgment, namely that this is a task for the legislator. Now it is time for the Storting to take responsibility for ensuring a safe and fair working life in the future. With this, I address the proposals that the Workers' Party – together with others – is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e813	The representative of Arild Grande has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e818	Before I go to the post I had originally planned, I just have to make a few comments on the previous post. Had it not been unparliamentary to say, I would say that this was heard as an article scheduled for the National Labour Party meeting, completely disconnected from the realities of what the matter was about. The representative draws up the yellow vests in France. I remember that there was an uprising that started with an increase in fuel charges, which the representative of the Grande Party would like to see. I also think it is a downgrading of the voters to say that the voters did not know what they did when they chose the government they have today, both in 2013 and 2017. I think we should respect the voters' choices, and I think the voters know very well what they're doing. So to the matter: regular employment is and will be the general rule in Norwegian working life, and we have also recently clarified in the Working Environment Act what it means to be a permanent employee. There may also be a need for other forms of employment, such as temporary employment and rental, which are initially agreed upon by all the lots in this room, but for the derogations to then require specific conditions to be met in order to make use of them. The size has tightened these rules in several areas in recent years and has also strengthened the rights of those who have forms of association other than the traditional general rule, which are fixed employment. Norwegian working life works mostly well, most people are doing well at work. In most cases, the relationship between the employer and the employee works well. The whole nine out of ten thrive at work. But that does not mean that we need to rest, because every day we have to fight on to ensure that employment in Norway continues to be safe, serious, innovative and competitive, and to open up the unprofessional players, who have no place in Norwegian working life. They shall not be destroyed by the great, great majority. But if we're going to make it, it's also important that we don't create a wrong picture of what the employment situation in Norway is like. It has to end that we suspect business, which actually creates the values we can distribute for good. There are many legitimate reasons why temporary employment or hiring and staffing are needed in some cases. These are also schemes that can be good for more workers and, in some cases, are also desirable among employees. The representative proposal also appears to be a consequence of the Norwegian Supreme Court ruling. Otherwise, there was a verdict of several representatives in this Chamber before they had read the verdict, and they had bombastic views on the verdict and notified the proposal we made, among other things. treats today. On the basis of the proposal and the arguments, it may seem that the wish of some is for employees to have two different employers to deal with, and that it is believed that all the challenges will be solved by shifting employers' responsibilities at the very top and farthest from the employee. I do not believe that a fragmented employer model is for the benefit of the employees. On the contrary, I think it is good that the employee has one employer to deal with, that it is also the employer who is close, who knows your job, a single person can contact without a large bureaucratic – and unclear – system, which I believe also relates to the proposal and the argument. The fact that business has different forms of organisation is actually a good thing, because no business is the same, no employee is the same. Then we have to ensure that we have systems and variations that are tailored to the needs of employers and employees, and then we have to ensure that you have good rights, regardless of the type of organisation or type of employment you have. This government has been clear: we're going to have a good, safe and serious working life, based on the fact that regular employment is the main rule, but we have to stop suspecting that there are people who have other needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e837	This does not apply to suspicion. That is, our business life should have conditions that are such that we get a fair competition. It should not be the case that those who are in the forefront and are constantly making ends meet are those who will have the opportunity to make the most of the money. It is the serious ones that follow the Norwegian model, the Norwegian custom, who have to make the most money. This is an important proposal, because what was previously recognised as a rule of play and behaviour in Norwegian working life is now being challenged by new and unbridled forms of organisation. It is therefore important that the Storting tightens up in order to ensure this fair competition and secure conditions for those employed. When the representative Nordby Lunde says that it is a cross-political goal of a good working life with clean pay and working conditions, it is unfortunately not true. Right brakes and prevents the necessary changes to the law to be at the height of reality. Systematic prevents one from being at the height of creativity and the reality that now causes one to get uncertainty and different competitive conditions in Norwegian business. The policy for which the opposition, led by the Left and the Centre parties, stands, has broad support in the employee organisations, from LO to the Academics – seafaringly because it now affects not only those who have the worst pay but also those who have good pay. These new and unbridled forms of organisation may include the transfer of employer responsibility internally in the structure of the company, the conclusion of long contract chains and the establishment of recruitment agencies that hire personnel to parent and subsidiary companies. It was exactly what the Supreme Court was asked about in the question of the Norwegian Air Shuttle ASA. That is the background to this case – the employer’s responsibility, which the pilots thought the airline should have, while the Supreme Court accepted that Norwegian’s model, where flight personnel operate the airline’s flights while they are employed in their own internal crew companies in the group, was fine. The Supreme Court came to nothing but that they gave Norwegian right. But what's special, and what's special, and what's especially clear, is that in the judgment of Borgarting, first-voting judge, Henrik Bull, makes it clear: ‘Get the clear legislative opinions relating to the current concept of employer, however, it must be up to the legislator’ – i.e. us – ‘to decide whether such a rule should be given to which the employee side has argued.’ A very, very clear message. The judgment gives undertakings the opportunity to organise themselves so that they can retain all influence over employment, but without having the necessary responsibilities for the employees. And workers must, in our opinion, know who they are going to do with their wishes, demands or negotiations. When employees are organised away and removed from the activities they are actually associated with, the real and formal position of employees is weakened. The government says it has set up a selection of Norwegian aviation. Yes, there's one part of this. But the challenges we face have consequences for many industries other than aviation. It is therefore important that these challenges are seen from a general employee perspective and not limited to one industry. The centre party is therefore in agreement with the Workers' Party and SV on the proposals No. 1 and 2. What is to be drawn up in proposal No. 1, in the last indent: ‘ – prevent the employer from organizing away from the employer’s responsibilities by dividing into sub-companies which are not engaged in self-economic activity.’ I am reasonably sure that there is a wording that is fully agreed by broad groups in the Norwegian people, including a number of employers. In proposal No 2 it says that we ask for proposals that ‘maintain the balance between the social partners by ensuring that the responsibilities of employers are always the responsibility of the activities of which the employees are subject to a relationship of dependence and subordination’. It should have been seaworthy – at least it should have been seaworthy Christian People's Party policy. Finally, for aviation, I would like to say that the rules have to be changed, so that the company authorised by the Air Safety Authority to fly in Norway also has the employer's responsibility for those on board the aircraft. The right shall comply with obligations.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e871	The result of legal proceedings between Norwegian Air Shuttle ASA and the trade union Parat was what made us in SV present this proposal. It was a little before this made other proposals in Stortinget that pointed to the same problem. What I mean by itself shows the extent of the problem, and I have to say that I am disappointed that the government will not act on the assignment from the Supreme Court of Justice that the legislator is responsible here. They added the speakers in an open hearing about how they have been organized away from the influence that has been common in Norwegian working life. Norwegian pilot Oddbjørn Holsether today tells the Free Trade Movement about how he and his colleagues work in a company within the Norwegian system that is in practice a manning company with only Norwegian as a customer. In this way, they have been disconnected from negotiating the real value creation of the company. There is nothing to suggest that creative corporate structures that are about organizing themselves away from employer responsibility exist only in Norwegian – or in aviation, for that matter. We are fully aware that the government has reduced a selection of Norwegian aviation to assess the impact on aviation workers as a result of new business models and creative corporate structures. But if, for that matter, Statoil had really wanted to disconnect himself from the employer's responsibility, they would have done so with a little bit of inspiration from Norwegian. There is no hokuspocus. We are facing a new era in which workers are being pushed harder on the margins, and where people on the other side of the table have too much power. This makes it absolutely necessary to update the Working Environment Act, so that it takes its height. It's exciting to see what the government's selection is, but it's pretty much as interesting as it should have been when you first have such a selection. One should be dealing with the entire working life and looking at all kinds of corporate structures in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e882	The Norwegian working life model is based on cleanliness and propriety. It is a cross-political objective of a well-organised working life with clean pay and working conditions. Permanent and direct employment is, and must be, the general rule of Norwegian working life. This is already explicitly stated in the first paragraph of Section 14-9 of the Working Environment Act. With effect from 1 January of this year, it also includes a definition of what it means to be a permanent employee. Other forms of employment, such as temporary employment and rental, are exemptions which always require specific conditions to be met. The issue of the enforcement of employee hiring is a recurring issue in this room. The Christian People's Party has been, and is, concerned that renting will take place in line with current laws and regulations, and only in the specific cases to which the law opens. We are not going to have a slip from permanent to temporary jobs, but at the same time we are going to provide the necessary flexibility. It was notified in Prop. 73 L for 2017-2018 that the Ministry is examining how, through official controls, the authorities can strengthen the enforcement of the rental rules, including non-discrimination rules. At the same time, this work follows up several requests decisions from Stortinget. It is important for regulatory enforcement to be necessary to ensure compliance. Furthermore, the government has launched a research project to examine how participation and participation are practised in Norwegian working life today, including whether fundamental rights and arrangements are affected by changes in working life. This task has been assigned to Fafo and the final report shall be delivered by the end of 2020. The employer is defined in the Working Environment Act as ‘any person who has employed an employee to do work in his/her service’. Usually, the legal entity ‘employee’ will coincide with the activities of the employer. An extension of the concept of an employer, including: to group companies and other dominant companies, among others. assessed in the preparatory work of the current work environment law. The Ministry then found that an extension was not desirable, among other things. because, in the vast majority of cases, the law and the case law are binding on the location of the effective decision-making authority. Under the law in force, there is also a certain opening for employers' responsibilities to be placed with more people after a specific assessment if there is a specific basis for doing so. Changes and trends in the labour market over time may lead to the need to amend existing legislation to ensure that it confers the rights and protection of Norwegian workers according to the intention of the law. The government has reduced a selection of Norwegian aviation such as: shall assess the impact on aviation workers of new business models and changes in employee relationships. This believes the Christian People's Party is both important and correct. It is necessary to examine the impact of changes in the labour market and it is important to gather knowledge that makes it possible to make good and correct decisions. The Christian People's Party therefore looks forward to seeing what comes out of this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e895	The Norwegian pilots have been fighting hard for years to become directly employed in the company. It should have been completely unnecessary, since the pilots fly for Norwegian every day, but Bjørn Kjos exploits the grey zones of the Norwegian law to avoid taking responsibility for the employees. Instead, the pilots have been transferred to a manning company that is rented to Norwegian. Norwegian is not alone in missing a responsibility that most employers take. Now we are approaching the end of the trial against the welfare profitor Aleris, where consultants who work continuously for the company have sued for direct and permanent employment – which should have been a matter of course. There have recently been a number of examples of manning companies that evade the law and employ people down to 5 percent contracts, and the franchise industry is growing, where the owners at the top do not hire themselves, but instead place the employees at the franchisee. It is a business model that gives the real employer zero risk, and all the risks of the employees and the franchisee. These examples – Norwegian, Aleris, franchise – have something in common, namely that they are loose and unsafe employment. We in Red do not accept developments where more and more people in the labour market are deprived of a real opportunity to organise themselves and to negotiate with their real employer. Now there is a large growth in the number of companies that make a living in an enterprise that goes beyond the intention of the Norwegian Labour Environment Act. Then the law must be strengthened so that the progressive law we have from 1977 does not lose its value. The right-hand parties argue that the issue of employer responsibility was up for assessment in 2005 and therefore does not need new treatment. Then the Progress Party, the Right, the Left and the Christian People's Party forget that much has happened in the last 15 years. Firstly, there has been massive and unregulated labour migration from the whole EEA area to a number of industries, where cynical employers take advantage of the opportunity to obtain cheap labour through the use of rentals and other creative business models. Only there is a strong need to tighten up the regulatory framework. Of course, Red supports the proposal to ensure that the employee's right to control is also the responsibility of the employer. We record that the bourgeois parties will not do anything about this development. We've seen that over and over again. It is disappointing that the bourgeois parties protect about the unprofessional employers, almost no matter what problem we face. So it's a pattern of government policy. We see it in the government statement, where they stress that it should be as nice to be unorganized as being organized. At the Court’s national meeting, the discussion was about defending – or so-called recognising – the unorganised working life. This shows that the counterclaims against the Norwegian model also strengthen in the government, and that the bourgeois parties reveal themselves as drivers of an unorganised working life on the outside of the Norwegian model. At the same time, in these days the government boasts of its efforts against occupational crime. The problem and fact is that an increasing proportion of working life has been grayed out — characterised by unemployment and social dumping. And there's little help in taking the worst of the bad guys, when you allow an increasingly large part of the working life to operate in the edge zone of the law. The pilots became known for their fight for regular employment. They have fought a battle for all workers, which we are today trying to continue in the staging room. Unfortunately, the counter-cancers are strong. Unfortunately, sensible proposals will be voted down by the citizens. It is therefore essential that the trade union movement and opposition in the Grand Duchy continue the fight for safe employment, a struggle where unfortunately we have to note that the government considers it more important to protect the unprofessional employers than to vote for sensible proposals, which may to some extent counteract some of the unprofessional, and to some extent make it a little more tidy for the workers in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e912	The government wants orderly pay and working conditions and an organised working life. This is important and something we constantly pay attention to and stand together across the political divide. Representatives want to clarify that fixed and direct working conditions are the general rule in Norwegian working life. However, this is already the general rule in Norwegian working life. First, it follows the law. With effect from 1 January of this year, the concept of permanent employment has been defined so as to indicate what it means to be permanently employed. Secondly, practice shows that fixed employment is the general rule. A 2018 Fafo report shows that only 11 pst. by persons employed are temporarily employed, hired or self-employed without employees. We continue to focus on rental. The Ministry is in the final phase investigating how we can strengthen the enforcement of the rental and non-discrimination rules. We announced this in connection with the changes to the law on rental last year, and this follows up several request decisions from Stortinget. Here we aim to send a proposal to the hearing during the spring. In the case of employee participation, the government has launched a research project to examine how participation and participation are practised in Norwegian working life today, including whether fundamental rights and arrangements are affected by changes in working life. As mentioned by several in the Chamber, the mission has been allocated to Fafo and the final report has to be delivered by the end of 2020. Representatives want changes to the law to ensure that the framework is clear on who is responsible for employers. I believe that the legislation we have today is initially good and provides flexibility to meet different forms of organisation in the workplace. At the same time, we must have our eyes open to change in the labour market. Choice of the form of organisation and employment may affect who has the rights, opportunities and obligations. This is all reason to be aware of. Fortunately, my impression is that most businesses are serious and take their responsibilities seriously, including those who need to streamline and reorganize themselves. And it is absolutely legitimate for business to use the space for action in the law. Research shows that the use of atypical employment in Norway does not substantially increase. There are no large warning lights. Despite this, there may be good reasons to be aware of trends in the labour market. This applies both to the organisation of work and activities, to the relationship between the provider of work and the performer of work, and to the consequences of different organisation. In my opinion, it makes sense to see these questions in context, including: in the light of the research and not least in consultation with the parties. I discussed this topic with the social partners in the Employment and Pension Policy Council in February, where I briefed – and also asked – whether it could now be justified in consultation with the parties to consider how our framework is adapted to the working life of the future. We'll also come back to that later.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e927	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e932	I hear a Minister of Labour who, with his intervention, blesses the form of organisation that Norwegian has implemented, as a completely legitimate exploitation of the law. But this case is not unique. We see examples of similar phenomena, through the Aleris cases, through some franchisors and in the transport industry, all of which are about getting rid of employers' responsibilities. Therefore, the left-hand side has made a number of proposals in the Stortinget to clarify the responsibilities of employers. If, as the Council of State claims, the government wants an organized working life, why are they always against the proposals we are making, which will clarify employers' responsibilities and strengthen employees' rights?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e939	Today the employer's responsibility is already clarified in the law, and I believe that initially it is also flexible and good enough. But it's clear that when you get more judges like the ones we've seen now, and you also see trends in the workplace, there's also reason to see if there's a need to make adjustments. So even though there are few changes at macro level, there's a reason to see if there's any changes at micro-level, i.e. industry, that you should look at. In connection with the Norwegian judgment, I met with both the employee and employer sides. The Aleris judgment hasn't fallen yet, so we'll be careful there. The Ministry of Transport has already reduced a sample looking at pay and working conditions in aviation. They will, as far as I know, have a job now towards the end of the year. We are now investigating various issues related to franchisors, and I have taken the initiative with the social partners to see whether we are now also looking at developments in the labour market in the light of, among other things. the judgment that fell before Christmas, but then look more at the working life in general. We take this very seriously, and we also involve the parties in the work.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e948	It is obvious to all who can read that the legislation is flexible and is exploited by employers who want to get rid of employers' responsibilities. That is why we have this matter under consideration today. So the government claims that you want to look at things -- at micro-level, obviously -- and that you evaluate things through investigations, samples and at all. But while the government sits and evaluates, investigates and has samples, there are changes in the working life that require our attention, and that require change and a clearer law. Does the government, and the Council of State, have a single example of where the government has made proposals for the Storting that will clarify the responsibilities of employers?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e956	The representative of Grande would like to criticise the fact that the legislation is too flexible, but I think it is difficult to deal with absolutely all the problems without the regulatory rigour being so rigid that it can be demanding to do business. We also see that most employers are serious and proper. The vast majority of employees thrive at work, and we have a good and health-promoting working life. I would like to mention more examples of what the government is doing to promote a safe and serious working life. We made our own bill proposal last year that addressed different elements of the rental problem, and it was after long discussions with the parties that we made that bill proposal. We have developed three strategies against labour crime, together with the parties and the supervisory authorities. Now we also see that the crime of working life is falling, the supervisory authorities are able to take more, and the working life is safer now than it was before. But we're not done with the work. We're going to continue the fight for a serious and safe working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e965	This is about the employer's responsibility, as we see that more and more employers are trying to get away. The Aleris case is an example. We've seen transport operators being forced to set up individual companies to get a job. We have seen in some franchisors that organisational forms are found that allow you to sit with all the power of the parent company, but no responsibility towards the employees. That's what I'm asking: Has the government made a single proposal for the Storting that makes employers' responsibilities clear, so that employees in Norway can be sure that they can relate to their real employer?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e970	We have initially believed that employers' responsibility is well clarified in the law today, but we have also seen different trends in the labour market now that we think it is worth looking at. What we see in Norwegian working life in general is that there are very few changes. It is very stable in terms of temporary employment, it is very stable in terms of rent, and there are very few changes over time when you look at the statistics at the overall level. But at the same time, we are also open to change now that we should go into more detail. And then I just want to mention again: the Aleris judgment is not fallen, and I think we should be careful in this room by proselytizing what's coming there. But I agree with the representative that we do not want a working life where employers do not take responsibility for employers. We want permanent, secure employment in an organised working life, where the employer is also known. Now we've taken an initiative towards the parties to look at some of these questions. The Ministry of Transport already has a sample working on aviation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e977	The Council of State said that it is entirely legitimate for an employer to use the space for action in the law. I agree with that. But what's the point of this case is that the Storting did not anticipate circumvention of the employer's responsibility, as we see it for example. in the Norwegian case. This is not the case in these cases, which are now increasingly taking place in more and more parts of Norwegian employment and business. This is a demanding matter. The longer we wait, the more demanding it becomes. We're going to have a law in place that will apply to a very different work and business. In the proposal from the minority, we write: ‘prevent employers from being able to organise themselves away from employers’ responsibilities by dividing them into sub-companies which are not self-employed.’ My question is, does the Council of State agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e989	As I have discussed both in my main post and also in several answers to questions, the government has put down a sample that looks at, among other things. pay and working conditions in aviation. They shall make their recommendation at the end of this year. That's the aviation we're looking at. But as the representative Lundtigen also says, there are several sectors where you can see examples of a different organisation, and it can be legitimate to organise itself like that. The question is whether that is desirable. That is why, in February, I took up with the parties to the Employment and Pension Policy Council whether we should now set up a party-based selection to look at the legislation more generally – not sector-specific but more generally. I felt that the parties were positive about it, but in that case I will come back to it. It is legitimate to use the room for action, but I agree with the questioner that we want a working life where it is clear who is responsible for the employer and where permanent employment should of course be the general rule. But it is also important that we have some flexibility in the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e996	It is important to reduce sample sizes, but one of the most important things is that those who reduce the sample exercise management responsibilities and define the attitudes to be taken into account for what needs to be investigated. If it's free for what's to be investigated, it's both expensive and bad. One must be pointed, one must put his opinions into what must be investigated to move on, to take the bull by the horns. It is a practical experience from private business at least. We say in proposal No. Article 2 is replaced by the following: ‘The committee shall make proposals for legislative changes which ensure the balance between the social partners by ensuring that the responsibilities of employers are always the responsibility of the activities of which employees are subject to a relationship of dependence and subordination.’;» Doesn't that make any sense?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1006	The employer's responsibility is already defined in the law. I just want to say that I don't see any reason to doubt the attitudes and values of them like that. sits in the Body of the Parties under the Ministry of Transport. Nor do I see any reason to doubt the attitudes and values of the parties who might be in the party sample that I have addressed. And I also see no reason to doubt the values and attitudes of the Fafo researchers, who are now sitting and looking at, among other things. the participation of employees. We're concerned that we're going to find out what are the real challenges, what opportunities we have, and what will be the best solutions at large. That's why we also very often invite both sides into the sample work to look at what's the challenge picture, what's the scope, and what's possible within the tripartite cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1011	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1027	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that – within the allocated speaking time – up to five lines of reply are given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1036	This is a very important matter, and I will give a great reward to the Workers' Party, who have raised the matter. As rapporteur of the case, I have gone into the historical basis of the case, while I have seen the current situation in which hundreds of occupational injuries are now at risk of not being fully compensated as a result of the bankruptcy on 8 May 2018 at the Danish insurance company Alpha Insurance AS. The setting shows that the government parties and the opposition have neither a common understanding of the serious situation of the day nor the circumstances that have led to the situation. The only thing the Committee agrees on is the fact that there are two compulsory insurance schemes in the case of occupational injury and diseases, that two schemes create unnecessary complexity for all parties, and that there will be an advantage to one insurance scheme. While the government parties reject all proposals, the opposition stands together on five proposals drawn up through comitology, on the basis of the Workers' Party's proposals in the document. I take up the suggestions on which the Centre Party, the Workers' Party and SV stand together. The centre party does not participate in the proposals. 6 and 7, as indicated by the setting, because it is more urgent to clean up the emergency situation. However, this should not be understood as opposed to the proposal No. 6 and 7, and in order not to create misunderstandings, we will subsidiaryly support the proposals No. 6 and 7, from the Workers' Party and SV. At the heart of the matter is that it is legal for Norwegian companies to take out compulsory professional indemnity insurance in companies within the EEA territory without the foreign company being a member of the Norwegian Occupational Insurers' Association and, in the current situation of the bankruptcy of the insurance company Alpha Insurance AS, the Occupational Insurers' Association and the guarantee system in the event of bankruptcy in both countries reject liability for the occupational indemnity. This is very serious. In Norway, employers are required to take out occupational indemnity insurance for their employees. All insurance companies offering professional indemnity insurance in Norway, obligations under Section 4 of the Professional Indemnity Insurance Act to be a member of the Occupational Indemnity Insurance Association, where the rights of employees are guaranteed by a guarantee scheme that enters into such situations. The Occupational Indemnity Insurance Act is a compulsory liability insurance in which one of the main objectives is always to ensure cover for the injured party. Norwegian insurance companies and non-EEA insurance companies are compulsory members of the Norwegian guarantee scheme. Non-life insurance corporations that have sold insurance from EEA countries do not have equivalent requirements. In the case of sales of insurance from EEA countries, Section 5-5 of the Financial Corporations Act provides that the company is authorised by the authorities of its home Member State. Many countries do not have guarantee schemes, and those insured in Norway are thus at risk of being left unsecured if the insurance company resident in another EEA country goes bankrupt. The Danish insurance company Alpha Insurance AS, where several thousand Norwegians were insured for professional damage, went bankrupt on 8 May 2018. The guarantee scheme in Denmark does not apply in the event of bankruptcy and the association has declared that they are not responsible for claims against the Danish company Alpha after the bankruptcy. The bankruptcy of Alpha Insurance AS has shown that the Norwegian rules on occupational injury do not provide workers with a guarantee of bankruptcy when the insurance has been sold cross-border from an EEA country. At the Committee’s hearing, the social partners LO, NHO and Working proposed that changes to the legislation be made rapidly to prevent the occurrence of a similar situation. They therefore want compulsory membership for cross-border activities in the Norwegian non-life insurance guarantee scheme. As a result of this lack of financial responsibility, a foreign EEA-located insurance company must not be chosen because it is cheaper for enterprises that have to have professional indemnity insurance. Foreign companies shall not be free-of-charge passengers at the expense of Norwegian insurance companies, but professional damage shall be permitted under current legislation to take out legal proceedings against the insurance company for the payment of insurance in the event of its general protection. Therefore, after the Alpha judgment, the injured persons have been referred to the Danish courts. In the opinion of the opposition, the injured party shall always be able to refer to the Norwegian court for the purpose of determining the amount of compensation. The opposition is in favour of a compulsory non-life insurance guarantee scheme sold through the Norwegian branch or directly through cross-border sales in Norway. This position is supported by both LO, NHO and Works. That is the opposition's position on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1059	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1064	First, let me thank the case rapporteur for a thorough work. Let me then express my great amazement and disappointment at the total disclaimer of the government and the Right, the party of the Advancement Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party, in a case where perhaps some 300-400 Norwegian workers with approved occupational injury are now in danger of losing all or part of the compensation they actually claim under Norwegian law. All employers are required by law to take out insurance against accidents at work for their employees. As an additional security, we have a guarantee system that ensures workers against unprofessional employers who give the bluff to take out insurance. The guarantee scheme also ensures professional damage in cases where the employer has done his duty but where the company does not discharge its obligations. The bankruptcy of the Danish company Alpha Insurance 8 May 2018 has shown that there is a big hole in this guarantee. All payments to the injured are stopped. The final payment may be deferred until the end of the settlement procedure. It could take years. All proceedings shall be governed by the bankruptcy settlement. After that, those insured through the Norwegian branch of Alpha will have the Norwegian guarantee scheme in their backs, but it may take time – some of the injured do not have time. One example is a person with occupational cancer. Those who have taken out professional indemnity insurance directly with Alpha Insurance in Denmark via insurance brokers do not have the right to, and therefore will not receive, cover from the Norwegian guarantee scheme, even if they are covered under Norwegian law. They evidently act as governments to let their own seas sail. It is unfair, and it is contrary to the rules adopted by the Stortinget. Turning the other cheek to might be a good trait, but in this case the opposite is the case. It's quite so shocking to witness the government's shoulder movements, applauded by the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party of the Biggest. Norwegian law doesn't count. It does not matter to these parties that 300 to 400 persons with occupational injury are left without cover. They get to be as good as they can, and had to lead their case on their own in another country, in a situation where you are either ill or injured. For them, it is of little help that the Minister of Justice expresses full understanding that they have been in a difficult situation. The Council of State claims that this is a private-law dispute in which the government cannot intervene. Of course, the government can step in here. The State can easily take over the claim of these professionals against Alpha Insurance, pay damage to what they claim, and have Alpha Insurance meet the Norwegian State with an overall claim in any legal action in Denmark. It is just to vote in favour of proposal No. 2, from the minority in this case. It will solve the acute problem for those who don't get their money. This applies to the future — preventing this from happening again, closing the gaps in the law to protect workers injured at work, ensuring that everyone is covered by the guarantee scheme, ensuring that everyone who has to go to court can do so in Norway: but neither is the government willing to act here. That is why the Right Party, the Progress Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party today will vote against the proposal for compulsory membership in the guarantee scheme for all those who sell professional indemnity insurance in Norway. What I'm asking is, how will the government then ensure that the insurance against occupational injury is real? One of the government parties likes to call itself a party of law and order. If the law and order are not to apply to workers who are injured at work, for whom is that applicable? Prior to the 2013 elections, the Stoltenberg II Government promoted a proposal for updating the Code of Occupational Damage. It was pulled by the Solberg administration with notice that there would be a new proposal, but there has never been. We've wanted it every year. The last thing that was said is that today's legislation is good enough. The alpha case shows the opposite. But our proposals, the proposals no. 3 and 4, which can seal this hole, is likely to be downgraded today. Finally, a few comments on the proposal No. 6 and 7 from the Working Party and SV, which I take up. They relate to another vulnerable group: non-resident workers injured in employment in Norway. They are vulnerable to occupational crime, they are at greater risk of occupational injury at work than their Norwegian counterparts. The Labour Inspectorate has shown that risky jobs, language problems, poor training and lack of protective equipment constitute a dangerous combination. The most important thing is, of course, prevention through training and control, but accidents will occur. Unfortunately, the reality has shown it. It's enough to mention the Ramunas Gudas case from Bærum or the death fire in the Drama a little over ten years ago. But the government and the majority of the population won't cross two sticks to ensure occupational damage in a better way than they do today. It's almost not to believe.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1085	The representative Lise Christoffersen has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1090	For a long time, the Code on Compensation for Occupational Damage — under several changing governments — has been amended without agreement being possible. The social partners have been working on a professional injury reform for more than 15 years, where a public body has submitted proposals for a fundamental reform of the current system, as well as the Ministry has over the years explored possible alternatives. I would like to stress that there is a broad consensus that today's system is not perfect. But the reason we're where we are is that the parties have failed to agree on the new instruments that could possibly relieve today's inadequacies. There is also little evidence to suggest that at least some agreed solution has come very much closer to being supported by the parties in this matter. This disagreement was also apparent at the hearing on 31 January of this year, where none of the hearing bodies agreed to support the proposals in the case. All the hearing bodies had their own proposals for adjustments, examples of parts of the proposals they were in favour of, or against, or alternative texts, which were not necessarily compatible with each other either. Unfortunately, it illustrates, I would say, the complexity of this matter, because there are several aspects of the proposals that have been put forward that raise both important questions of principle and practicality. It concerns issues of EEA law, such as: related to the nature of the requirements that can be imposed by the Norwegian authorities in order to be able to conduct insurance business in Norway, all the time during which an insurance company’s ability to operate within the EU/EEA territory otherwise depends on the general principle that an authorisation in one Member State applies to all. There are also challenges to ensure that no changes are made that in practice will give foreign companies a suction tube into payments to the Norwegian guarantee scheme from Norwegian companies. It is a development that I assume no one wants, and that also those who have been up here on the platform earlier in the case have expressed that you do not want it. In the case of statutory claims for legal expenses insurance, for example, there will be something completely new in Norwegian law. It also raises several fundamental issues, such as: related to the fact that compulsory legal expenses insurance as part of professional indemnity insurance would imply that the insurance undertaking would be obliged to cover the costs incurred by the insured person against the undertaking. It is difficult to imagine that it should be possible to do so without leading to a higher level of premiums and increased costs for Norwegian enterprises, including in particular: The NHO and Active warned against this at the hearing. At all, there are too many issues in this proposal that have not been resolved, so that we can vote in favour of it. I would like to reiterate that there is a broad consensus that today's system is not perfect, but it is our opinion that any changes to the Code of Professional Compensation must be based on greater agreement between the parties, if we are to actually resume a work that has been in progress for more than 15 years, but where we have not succeeded in bringing about any solution that will reap agreement between the parties. Therefore, we recommend that this proposal be rejected – not adopted – today, but we would like to see a situation in which there is a different starting point, with a greater consensus between the parties than it is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1105	This representative proposal from the Labour Party contains eight original proposals. It is about professional damages and the work that has been done by several, who have been going on for 15 years. It is also about the special situation that has arisen in the wake of the bankruptcy of the company Alpha Insurance based in Denmark. First of all, it is important for me to stress that we have a great understanding that it is a difficult matter for those to whom this bankruptcy comes from. They have come into a situation that they have not had the ability to influence themselves. I note that both the case spokesperson and the representative from the Labour Party are very critical of the government's handling of this, so I feel that it is necessary to go through proposals to tell you why there are not as simple solutions as what is presented in document 8 of the Workers' Party's proposal and the proposals in the vote. I note that the concepts of the various proposals have a slightly different numbering in the original proposal that is in the setting, so it is possible that I refer to other numbers than what was done by previous speakers. In paragraph 1 of the Labour Party's proposal for a representative, the Stortinget asks the Government to contribute to the fulfilment of its rights to those affected by the bankruptcy. It is challenging, as the government writes, to enter into a private-law dispute between private parties. This process is still in progress, and it is now too early to predict the outcome. If the case is not resolved, a quick trial may take place. Point 2 of the proposal for a representative is aimed at ensuring the same requirements for foreign and Norwegian companies offering professional indemnity insurance to Norwegian workers. Here are some EEA legal rules playing. It is challenging to impose a concession in Norway, even for companies established in an EEA country. We must be careful to give foreign companies the right to benefit from a guarantee scheme to which they may not contribute financially. Paragraph 3 of the draft representative refers to the need for the government to submit legislative proposals guaranteeing the right to bring an action before the Norwegian Court for damages. Here the government in the letter answers that this is protected by the current law, and I refer to the reply from the Minister of Justice to the Committee. In paragraph 4, the Labour Party proposes that legal expenses insurance should always be triggered in cases of debt acquisition, including professional damage. If we extend that insurance to cover this too, one knows that there will be more expensive insurance, and there is a cost that employers have to take. The ministry also has no overview of what this will cost, and we think it is irresponsible to go for a proposal without it being illuminated. Point 5 is about the government going through all the insurance against accidents at work to see if there are several cases like Alpha Insurance. Here the government answers that there are twelve foreign companies offering the service without being a member of the non-life insurance guarantee scheme. Five of these offer professional indemnity insurance. Paragraph 6 refers to the fact that the Labour Party is asking the government to bring matters to the attention of a new Collective Labour Damage Act as a matter of urgency. This is the work that has been carried out by many, which is that today there are two schemes – one in the public interest and also a statutory insurance scheme. A public selection gave a NOU in 2004 about this, so one has been working for 15 years under different governments to follow up this work. Only in recent years have there been three hearings about the problems, but despite extensive and thorough work, the social partners have not succeeded in reaching agreement on a solution that can solve the current system in a good and appropriate way. Paragraph 7 of the draft representative refers to the fact that foreign workers must also be assured, and that the government must propose amendments to that effect. The Minister of Justice, in his reply, points out that the legislation in force already contains provisions. Point 8 refers to resources made available to the Labour Inspectorate and the police. It's natural to remember that it's the Storting that's the running authority, so asking the government to increase the budget may not want to do the Storing. Then a rather increased budget should be if one thinks it is right. Here the Minister of Justice answers that there is a major focus on this area in the Labour Inspectorate, and that good cooperation between the police and the Labour Inspectorate means that this has a high focus within the current budgetary framework that one has. This is why the Progress Party, like the other government parties, is behind the option, where we reject the proposal. But we have a lot of understanding of the situation that many have come into, based on a bankruptcy in a private company.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1135	Professional injury is a demanding area of concern with serious consequences for those affected. Therefore, it is a little sad to record that such a reform has been working for more than 15 years without results. I also read that a public body has put forward proposals with a fundamental change to the current system, and in addition, over the years, the ministry has explored possible alternatives. Nevertheless, we have not got a good solution. Despite the broad consensus that today's schemes contain several weaknesses, it remains to be agreed on instruments that could have solved this. I came to Stortinget in January and was able to hear at the first hearing on 31 January that none of the participants had agreed on a solution. All participants had their own proposals for adjustments or alternative proposals. It is regrettable that it has not been possible to get this reform ashore after such a long time. We've read what the state council writes in its letter, and it's too early to say anything about the case between Alpha Insurance AS and the injured, because the bankruptcy is a private dispute. Nor is it clear whether established schemes in Denmark ensure insurance requirements for Norwegian workers, and it would therefore be premature to conclude whether the Alpha case has revealed the need for regulatory changes in this way. Otherwise, the points in the proposal for a representative do not work very well or solidly, we think, and the Council's letter of reply brings forward good counter-arguments to which we relate. That is why the Christian People's Party will not support the proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1148	First of all, as many others have also said, I understand that this is of course a very difficult situation for people with occupational diseases who have our occupational health insurance in Alpha Insurance. I am pleased that the guarantee scheme for non-life insurance has taken the initiative to advance payments to those who are insured in the Norwegian branch of the company. At the same time, I understand how hopeless the situation must be for those who were insured through the cross-border operation of Alpha Insurance. It is important to bear in mind that none of these groups themselves have had any opportunity to influence the situation in which they have arisen. As a result, although this is an unlikelyly demanding case for those involved, there is still a private-law dispute. It limits the country's ability to intervene directly. I believe that the state should not enter into a dispute between private parties. However, if one looks forward, this case may illustrate the need to consider more closely the rules applicable to professional indemnity insurance and bankruptcy in insurance companies. The fact that we have a system of professional indemnity insurance in Norway, which guarantees workers a high level of protection under the law, has in fact led those who are insured to receive the compensation they are entitled to. If changes are needed in the future, there are several different issues that need to be resolved, and several different solutions that need to be addressed. It is important that employees who believe that they have a right to compensation have the possibility to have their claims tried before the courts. In actions against insurance companies, Norwegian courts will have the competence to deal with the dispute. This may be different if you have to sue a foreign bankruptcy bank. As several representatives have been in the past, I assume that there are issues related to EEA law. The draft representative also spends a lot of time talking about the crime of working life. The government agrees that it is important to manage him better than we have traditionally done. One has worked well on such crime, among others. with control and cooperation between the administrative authorities and the social partners. I would also like to remind the Committee that the government presented its revised strategy on labour crime as late as February this year. Once we have concluded that we should not intervene directly in this matter, it does not mean that it is not necessary to look at the legislation in the future in time for new cases. At the same time, as several representatives have already pointed out, there is very little agreement between the social partners on what is the right solution to these issues. It may be natural for the opposition to think about when, so far, they have painted two lines under the suggestions they themselves have made, while the hearing rounds that the committee actually carried out showed that the parties in the Norwegian working life also have different approaches to this issue. It doesn't sound like that when the opposition is talking today, but it definitely sounds like that during the hearing.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1163	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1169	I hear that a lot of time says, and I see that for a long time the case in the wake of the Alpha bankruptcy in Denmark is a private-law dispute. We know that, so no one has to tell us. But what I'm wondering is why the government is so far to the degrees of helping these people in the best way one can, namely, by the state of Norway at government going in and taking over the demand, so that people get what they're entitled to, and then Alpha Insurance lets themselves be broken on the Norwegian state in an overall settlement, when that time comes. Why, then, does the government object to assisting these victims in this way?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1174	The government is not opposed to helping people with occupational injuries, but the government is opposed to directly intervening in what is, by date, a private-law dispute. It's about the state acting clean. We act consistent, and we don't interfere with that kind of thing. They are in the utmost consequence tried before the courts. This is what the Norwegian Government has done. This is how we will continue to act, unless it comes to completely different information from what we have today, which is naturally always subject to concrete assessments. But the starting point here is that the Labour Party in its proposal does not take into account that this has been a major disagreement between the social partners, including on how to deal with it. When the Labour Party today proposes what they themselves present as the ultimate solution, very few of the social partners place great emphasis on it. The government has also noticed.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1179	Thank you for the answer, but the Council of State is talking away from what was the question. That's what makes the government have so much against going in and taking over the demands of the people we're talking about here. We can divide that group into two, and the very largest group is people who have already been admitted to a professional injury and who have even been calculated the amount they are going to have. Could the Council of State imagine going in and assisting them, at least?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1184	I also answered the previous question. It's not safe the representative liked the answer, but that doesn't mean I didn't answer. I replied that we act in principle in this matter, as we do in several other cases. I have a lot of understanding that this is demanding for those who are in the situation. Difor has said that one can handle this, including the part that falls under the Norwegian branch. What I mean is a good way to deal with this in the future. But I don't agree that we don't see the potential for improvement in these systems. On the contrary, I also say that I do not exclude that it is possible to look at it in the future, but we need to achieve greater coordination between the social partners if we are to address this issue well in time. Of course, it puts the government up to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1191	Thank you again for your answer. It's quite right that the Council of State says, I don't like the answer. I think it's badly done to those people who needed a handshake right now. I have sailed in my time as rapporteur doing exactly the same, then towards the State Road Service, but on behalf of our citizens who were not to be harmed because things did not work exactly as they were supposed to. But forget it. The next question will then be: What measures will the government take to prevent the recurrence of the Alpha bankruptcy? The letter of reply from the Council of State states that there are at least five active companies in the Norwegian market now, where the rights of employees are not guaranteed by a guarantee scheme, either here or elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1198	As I also said in my previous post, we need to find out whether there is a need to make other legal assessments of either one or the other proposal, which is also addressed by the Labour Party in paragraph 3 and paragraph 4 of the vote. Whether you want to go about professional harm legislation, or if you want to take a good look at it through financial legislation, we have to assess it. I don't have the final conclusion to it. It is also worth remembering that if we are going to get a solution that says so, the parties in the Norwegian working life are also forced to try to find common solutions to this. So far, we see that even where it cracks in every direction, and if we make changes that actually stand, it makes the parties in the Norwegian working life have a lot of work to do with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1205	It is a fact that Alpha Insurance has sold professional indemnity insurance to employers in Norway, both through the Norwegian branch, i.e. a NUF company, and directly through cross-border business. Why are they clear? Yes, because it was cheaper for the employer. The bankruptcy situation is not governed by the Professional Insurers Act. The Occupational Insurers Act dates from 1990, while the EEA Agreement entered into force from 1 January 1994. Governments of different colors have been working on it for 15 years. It is clear that the government has been aware of what could happen. So the Council of State says that here a person must act in principle, act in such a way that there is a private-law dispute. What the Council of State says is that there is no responsibility for the government and the Storting. Obviously, the government and Stortinget have a responsibility, for one has understood that if there was a bankruptcy, these people would be in the saxa. My question is, isn't it reasonably arrogant to call this a private-law responsibility?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1214	No, it's not, it's a fact that this is a private-law dispute that can be tried before the courts. I am not surprised that the representative Lundtigen's criticism as usual frames previous governments, including those in which the Zenterpartie itself was put. That's what he's been doing. But it shows in this case the complexity of these matters. Neither the social partners nor the changing governments have come to a solution that completely eliminates the risk of this kind of conclusion of agreements between two private parties, precisely on the basis that one has not found a solution that one think will be better than today's legislation. It looks as if the Centre Party has found out when they are in opposition. The social partners showed in their hearing that they are not unique. The government says we have to look at different assessments of how we handle this forward in time, but the criticism from Lundtigen frames as usual at least as much the Center Party as today's government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1219	When you have a long life in this hall, it's an advantage that one says the same thing in the opposition as in the position. I'm proud to do that. The thing here is that one has to light up and carry on the discussion we now have. My next question is to look at the legislation in the future. Requirements for the approval of the Financial Supervision under the second sentence of Section 4-1 of the Act on Occupational Insurers’ Insurance ‘not applicable to insurers whose head office is in another Member State falling within the scope of the European Economic Area authorised in their home Member State’. This is due to EEA law rules. If you have a concession in one country, you also have a concession in another country. We're in that case, because the law is different. The question is: does the Council agree that the EEA Agreement is the main cause of the problems of those occupational injuries that are not compensated?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1228	In this case, there are also issues relating to EEA law, which I agree with the representative. But it is too easy to conclude that if we had not had the EEA agreement, we would have solved this problem. It's not given. The second is that if we had not had the EEA agreement, very many people who are currently in Norwegian working life would suddenly have been standing without a job, because it is the most important trade agreement with our largest market, and that leads to growth and well-being across the country. Using the EEA Agreement as a breaker in this matter, I do not think that is a basis for doing so. However, there are also EEA legal complications in the management of national legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1235	Replicate cord shift complete. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1243	Now we've got a new expression, "EAST-Legal Complications". It's very special that it's not possible to call a spade a spade, that it's not possible to tell that what's at the heart of this is that it's the EEA Agreement that has created the really big problems for one after the other government after 1994. We have a professional indemnity insurance law from 1990, which did not take account of the situation that we are now facing, and that law is allowed to apply further. It is a law that imposes an obligation on every employer to insure their employees against injury, and then it is a very loophole in the law that, if the company – in this case Alpha Insurance – goes conceivably, the people who are occupationally injured are involved. It is said here that there is a private-law dispute, but those people have no way of getting out of that case. This is strong. It's strong that you can't go in and say what's the reason why it's so problematic. I could document this by showing which paragraphs are such that they create these problems for the government, but the Council of State is constantly using new words to say what is the matter. The representative Tonning Riise said that there are EEA legal issues. It means in practical language that it is contrary to the EEA Agreement. Toning Riise also said that there had to be greater agreement between the parties. It's no wonder that there's disagreement between the parties, because there's someone who pays and someone who gets. I have never heard that there has been a consensus on it, but then there is a need for leadership. Then there is a need for leadership from a government to clear up the conflict that is here. The representative, Mr Njåstad, referred to the Labour Party's proposal. I would like to draw his attention to the fact that it is not the proposals that have been put forward. The proposals that have been promoted have been processed on the basis of the Workers' Party's proposals for representatives. They have been clarified and pointed out so that they appear better than what was the starting point. Such shall be the case for committee proceedings.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1256	There were a little too few lines in the loop that I got an answer to everything I was wondering about, so I thought I would take the opportunity to ask a few additional questions to the Council of State. I would like to comment first – quite quickly – that there are some strange roller blinds that the government is hiding behind in this case, as a reason not to do anything. The first is that there were various proposals during the Storting hearing in the case. Is it a criterion for what we are going to address here in the Storting, that all hearing bodies come up with exactly the same proposal? I've never heard of that before. There are issues of EEA law related to this, but this is the first time I have heard that this is an argument that we are not going to work on a matter. That's what they say. The representative Tuskedal said from the pulpit that there are some things that you should wait for, among other things. clarification of whether established schemes in Denmark ensure insurance requirements for Norwegian workers. It was already clear before the Council of State replied in its letter to Stortinget, and it is strange that the government did not know that new rules, which cover only risks in Denmark, would enter into force in Denmark from 1 January 2019. There the Storting might have been a little bit barely informed, to say it in a nice way. I was going to ask the Council of State what he would do to ensure that foreign workers have as good rights as Norwegian workers in the matter of occupational injury. The need is actually bigger if you look at the statistics together. There are four factors that the Labour Inspectorate uses to explain why foreign workers have a higher accident risk than Norwegian workers, because they actually have: more risky tasks other safety culture low age, limited experience and unemployment lack of language control; Unfortunately, we know that when the accident is over, these employees are often sent home without having a penny, whether they are entitled to it or not. I was going to ask another question. In fact, today’s professional harm legislation also has a gender impact side. Seven out of ten with approved occupational injury are men. Also where one compares men and women of the same age, with the same education, in the same industry and with the same diagnosis, the chance of obtaining an occupational injury benefit is consistently lower for women. Does the Council of State feel that there is a problem that is worth addressing? It would have been nice to get an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1286	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1302	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that there be a replacement of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1311	Housing speculators earn a lot in today's rental market, this at the expense of young people who want to enter the housing market and buy their first apartment, or good adults who have rented an apartment in a long life, and who have an opportunity to buy the apartment they have rented for so long. We want changes both in laws and in practice to make it easier for tenants to become owner-occupiers. A number of reports in Today's Business have shown that a housing speculator has circumvented the provisions of the Rent Farm Act and has failed to report the purchase of a tenancy to the Municipality of Oslo. Circumvention of these provisions may result in substantial economic gains at the expense of tenants with limited financial resources. The housing speculator Ivar Tollefsen and his company have been building up their portfolio of tenements in Oslo in recent years. The magazine Capital has proclaimed him the king of Norway, and through the listed Swedish company Heimstaden he owns more than 39 000 apartments in Norway, Sweden, Denmark, Germany and the Netherlands at a book value of SEK 76 billion. Since last fall, the company has had to respond to allegations of a breach of the municipal law on pre-purchase rights and the owner's section law in the event of a failure to notify the owner of a rental yard in Oslo. The company has admitted that in several cases they have forgotten to report a property purchase, contrary to the law. Now we want violation of the law to lead to penalties for those who break the law. We want to impose fines, prisons and corporate sanctions on those who break this law. The right-wing rule does not appear to be necessary. Do you think it's right that we have housing speculators operating on such a large scale in Oslo? We also propose several changes to the law that are necessary to achieve the goal of more people going from renting to owning a dwelling. We want to give the House Bank the opportunity to provide a guarantee or to provide loans for the entire purchase price. Why is the government not willing to bet on the House Bank as an actor in the housing market, giving the House Bank a greater role, new societal tasks? We want to increase the lending framework of the House Bank. The government reduced the lending framework of the House Bank from 17 billion. NOK 16 billion. kr in the year's budget, and with it the Government of the House Bank weakens as a housing policy tool. The Labour Party does not support the reduction of the Husbanken, and in our alternative budget for 2019 we increased the mortgage framework from 16 billion. DKK to 25 billion kr. This helps to give the state bank financial muscles to, among other things. to contribute for tenure farms taken on municipal pre-purchase. Furthermore, we suggest that farmers should not be able to throw out tenants during the pre-purchase process. We suggest that residents be given the opportunity to purchase the tenancy even when the tenancy is part of a larger transaction, for example. as part of a real estate company, and not just the tenancy itself. We propose that the time limit for decisions to exercise the pre-emptive right of the municipality should be increased from four months to between six and eight months. And we suggest that the community's obligation to provide guidance and information needs to be clarified in the law. With this, I address the proposals of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1332	Then the representative Siri Gåsemyr Staalese has drawn up the proposals to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1337	For the Right, it's a goal that all people should have a safe and good place to live. The Norwegian self-reliance democracy, where 80 pst. of us living in a dwelling owned by the household itself, just helps to create good living environments, but also to spread power and give the individual the self-respect that comes from owning a home. It is the Right and Government's goal that we should stick to self-ownership democracy and work so that everyone who wants it can own their own home. The Leiegårdsgesetz was adopted in the 1970s, and the aim was to facilitate more people to own their own housing, but also that the municipality should have access to suitable farms for use, such as: student housing. But since then, the housing market has changed – and for the better. We have a deregulated housing and credit market, we have an EEA agreement that ensures equal treatment between public and private actors, and the private housing sector has become more modern and professional and also ensures a wide range of housing on the free market. When the committee had a hearing on the matter, it became clear that there were other matters of the tenancy law that had expired, other than a lack of notification when the tenancy was transferred. It is clear that this housing law has not been amended in line with the other housing market. Therefore, the Right and Government parties believe that the law should be reviewed, precisely to see whether there is a need for some changes, and what changes need to be made to achieve the purpose of people having the opportunity to own their own housing. Such a thorough review of the law we know that the government will start. The law should be reviewed with a much wider perspective than the question of punishing those who choose not to follow the law. Today's Business has revealed in an article series how market players deliberately or unconsciously circumvent the law, and thus can also gain a large profit. I will not comment on those matters in particular, but in general it is very critical whether actors choose not to comply with the laws and regulations adopted by the Stortinget. But the premise of the Red Party and the Workers' Party is that these offences cannot be enforced today. That's not true. One retains the right to pre-emption for a long time, even if the notice has not been sent, and if the law is broken, it can be prosecuted in civil proceedings, and those who have the right to purchase the dwelling they rent will also be able to avail themselves of that right. But the Right also listens and sees that there are many who have challenges, that the law appears difficult to practice, and therefore the solution for even more people to own their own homes is a further review than the adoption of criminal sanctions. It is not certain that there is punishment in itself that is the right instrument, for printing a fine to an actor would not necessarily have made a tenant use of his right to purchase the dwelling. In contrast, for example, simpler and clearer rules of procedure and an up-to-date law could help. However, in the overall review, it could also be natural to assess the appropriateness of criminal mechanisms. The housing bank is a social housing tool that also needs to be given priority to those who need it the most. There is nothing new for me that especially SV and the Workers' Party will spend more of the House Bank's funds on people who could have received a loan through private banks. It'll be able to replace those who need it the most, and we'll see that again in this case. For the Right and Government Parties, it would be more important to give priority to more people receiving full funding for new housing through the Husbank, or several rental-to-own projects. With that, I'm going to deal with what the right proposal has with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1354	The representative Mari Holm Lønseth has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1359	As the Committee emphasises in the vote, we are not dealing today with the issues that today's business has revealed in its series of articles. Law on municipal right of pre-emption for tenure farms, which entered into force on 29 April 1977, has no criminal provisions. The first paragraph of Section 5 of the Act states that: «The transferor and the transferee of the tenancy covered by the pre-emptive right of the municipality shall notify the municipality in writing without delay.» Thus, a breach of this provision can give a significant gain to the purchaser. The gain may be foregone by subsequent sectioning and resale of the sections. Today, this is an income obtained as a result of an unlawful act that is not punished. At the same time, tenants who are completely innocent third parties are being significantly injured. This may include both direct financial losses and not least losses of owner-occupied dwellings. The centre batch is therefore positively positioned to introduce reaction forms beyond what is currently possible. We are concerned that those who want to do so should be able to own their own dwelling as far as possible. Self-proprietary democracy helps to spread economic power, to provide predictability for individuals and to create safe, attractive and good living environments. There's a broad uprising about in this hall. I would like to stress that it is not acceptable not to comply with the laws and regulations. It is very serious if market actors — especially professionals — fail to comply with the law. During the Committee's proceedings, a number of issues related to the Law on Rentals were raised in general, which did not refer to a failure to notify sales or proposals for criminal provisions. Norwegian Housing Construction Teams took part, among others: the fact that the law does not apply to sections of apartments. This makes it easy to get ready for the law by sectioning the yard before the sale. It also pointed to factors that the actors consider relevant to the low level of law practice. It's alarming. Among other things, it was shown that urban farms are often owned by a limited company today. This often leads to a dispute over the purchase price if the pre-purchase right is exercised, since the sales value of the tenancy is not necessarily the same as the agreed purchase price of the shares. For example, an entire farm may have a higher purchase price than each of the apartments is worth it. The Committee feels, and also stresses in its comments, that the law is not adapted to the new form of ownership and the way in which urban sites are sold. Several have also reported that the law is difficult to practice. Very complex legal issues arise that lead to long-term disputes. The whole Committee therefore considers in its observations that it is appropriate for the government to carry out an overall review of the Land Rental Act and assess whether there is a need for revision of all or part of the law. It is therefore more than just the government and the Right-wing representatives who believe that this is a need. I therefore expect everyone to support the Centre Party and the SV's proposals: ‘The government is asked to carry out an overall review of the municipal pre-emption law for tenure farms and to assess whether there is a need for revision of all or part of the law.’ Something else would have been a little special after the signals that the representative Holm Lönseth here expressed. Furthermore, the Central Party believes that even if we are to have a comprehensive review, there is no need to wait for a conclusion on whether more severe criminal provisions are needed. We are therefore part of the proposers in terms of the proposal for a decision that the Stortinget asks the government to prepare and submit to the Stortinget a proposal to introduce criminal provisions into the law on municipal right of lease for tenancy. With that, I'm going to deal with the proposal that the Senterpartiet has with SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1389	The representative Willfred Nordlund has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1394	A home should be primarily a home for people. There is also a very large oral consensus in this Chamber that we want to strengthen the maritime leased line of housing policy. The representative from the Right was in this context also up and down words like spreading power. I very much agree with that. That's why it's very strange that the Right doesn't agree with the proposals that are in this case, because it's just about ensuring that more people will be able to experience being a sea lodger, with all the benefits it gives in Norway, and about spreading power. So the representative from the Right says that crime is critical. Yes, is it all it is going to cost to make transactions that are illegal, and that are motivating the ability of quite a number of people to get this own home? I think it is completely unreasonable, and this is about quite large sums. Housing and property are among those areas where it is very profitable to invest – there is probably a reason to keep on doing so – and when offences are not considered as anything other than critical, it is clear that you are allowed to continue. I also hear that the representative from the Right recommends civil proceedings in such cases. Well, then you don't know much about the private economy of many of the people that this is about. These are people who, often for many years, have paid what they have of room in their own private economy, in rent and other expenses. So going to a private lawsuit against a large, professional property company I think maybe is a chance island that many of them will consider, sail if they will in principle be right. There is a need for punishment in these cases, because it must cost something to break the law when you have so much profit from it, and when it comes to some of the societal tasks that we all say we agree on, namely, that more people should own their own home and spread power. Then we must actually take at least the steps in the proposals from the SV, the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. There is one comment that SV has dropped out of this setting, and I will only mention it now. It is the comment that points out that the law on tenancy is intended to allow several residents to take over the dwellings in which they live. That's the whole starting point for this case. Why we have fallen out of that note, I have no explanation for it, but we should at least be in it. To realize this, you have to see the reality in your eyes. There's a crime going on here, and it has to have a consequence. And then you have to put in place rules and arrangements that allow municipalities to exercise their right of pre-emption better than they do today. Then the House Bank is important. The House Bank shall not be a bank just for the most socially disadvantaged, as the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Government will. The House Bank is a social housing tool to bring about a social development that is desired, and it must then be able to provide loans to municipalities that will enter into such pre-emptions, for example. to help the residents. It must be able to contribute more to differentiated housing and that more than those most disadvantaged will be helped to live safely – for the housing market does not provide housing to all, nor to those who have a small income and who do not have the parent bank in order. So the House Bank should be used more actively than today, and therefore there is no reason for the right parties to say that this will affect the disadvantaged and increase the role of the House Bank in politics. No, it won't. The funds of the house bank can be increased – the house bank will largely recover all the funds it lends; it is 0.008 pst. loss or something like that in the House Bank. It will promote a social development where differences are decreasing. It's very important for SV, because the housing market is becoming maybe the biggest difference machine we have in our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1411	Some property barons have seriously enriched themselves in breaking the law and cheating hundreds of tenants for their statutory right to purchase the dwelling that they have rented for years. This has mainly happened on the Right Guard in the capital. They have allowed these house sharks to hold on for years and not lift a finger to make sure that the people who have paid rent for years were allowed to use their statutory right to buy the apartment they have lived in, and thus could be homeowners and not tenants given up these billionaires. It's been happening mainly on the Right Guard, and in the Grand Council today, Right chooses to take the Party of House sharks, as they have done in Oslo for decades, by voting down proposals on something so logical that if you break the law, it will have consequences, even if you are a billionaire. That should be of course, but to the right it is obvious to call about the house sharks rather than to ensure that the intention of the law is followed. Sometimes the Right calls itself a law-and-order party. The progress party does the same when you're driving with self-confidence. When it comes to the hard facts in the main hall, we see the fasitium – it is extremely clear to all who will see: the richest and their crimes in order to enrich themselves further are being protected by the bourgeois majority. It's a pretty ugly sight, but it's a very honest and clear view of what these parties are entering the main hall today. We have a simple proposal, namely that it will be punishable to break the law on municipal pre-emption rights. We have to put an end to the impunity for financial crime. It's going to be a punishment if you deprive the tenants of their statutory right to become owner-occupiers. That's what's going on in the main hall today: are we going to have continued impunity for the house sharks and the property barons, or are we going to impose punishment for those who break the law? That's the question. It should have been very easy for an overall big deal to say that there will of course be consequences if the law is broken, but we see what interests it's going to be ringing from the majority. It's quite clear who they're prioritizing, and it's not the people in Oslo who have lost the opportunity to own the home they've rented for very many decades. The law has no exceptions. It states that the transferor and transferee of the tenancy covered by the pre-emptive right of the municipality must notify the municipality in writing without delay. If the Storting adopts the Red's proposal, it will be up to the government to submit proposals on how the criminal code should be. When we get there, there are probably different views of what kind of punishment is most appropriate. The right in Oslo has provided support for economic criminal reactions, not prison sentences. There's something we can discuss in the Storting, but then the Storting must be to impose sanctions when the law is broken, and don't call about people like Ivar Tollefsen, who are good for 20 billion. kr, which owns 36 500 apartments, and which are likely to have systematically bypassed the law to enrich themselves further. This should, of course, be dropped by Stortinget when the municipality asks for the Stortinget as legislator to ensure that it follows sanctions with criminal offences. So ironically, it will be voted down by the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left. It is, to put it that way, a very special day -- especially to observe how these parties ring around these billionaires and their right to continue to enrich themselves by bypassing and breaking the law, without it being followed by penalties. They should henceforth never again take into their mouth the concept of law-and-order-party, as they are doing here in the Stortinge today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1427	Stortingsrett Björnar Moxnes has promoted a proposal for a representative on the introduction of penalties in the Law on municipal pre-purchase rights for tenancy farms, i.e. the Rent Farms Act. I perceive that the proposal comes – and this has been confirmed here today – in response to a series of articles in Today's Business, where the paper has written about a major property operator who repeatedly has to break the reporting obligation under the law. Unlike Moxnes, I think I'm too good to comment on this single matter and the single actor. It is the other part of the rule of law that is to be dealt with. The main purpose of the pre-purchase law is to help the tenants to become owners instead. The right of pre-emption is therefore an instrument to achieve the objective of maximising the possibility of owning their own home. However, the municipality can also use the law to obtain rental housing for, for example: disadvantaged on the housing market. The law existed at a time when there were completely different conditions on the housing market. In some areas, there was considerable pressure in the housing market with strong demand. At the same time, there was strict house rent regulation in the largest cities. Therefore, for farmers, compartmentalising a tenancy and selling the sections could be very beneficial in relation to the regulated rental income. It has therefore not been given that the law should have the same content in today's society. The proposer considers that it should be punishable not to report on the purchase of a property for which the municipality has a right of pre-emption. He believes that criminal provisions should include detention, fines, prison sentences and corporate penalties. A legislative proposal, he believes, should also include criminal rules for infringements of the law otherwise. I understand the involvement of the proposer in the matter, and I fully support the purpose of the law that those who want to do so should be able to own their own housing as far as possible. But I don't think the solution is to impose penalties in the law on tenancy. Of course, it is serious if property actors do not comply with provisions designed to make it easier for people to enter the housing market. But – and it is very important to underline – the law on tenure can also be enforced today, without criminal sanctions. It's up to the municipality. Both municipalities and tenants may retain their rights to pre-emption, even if a long time has elapsed since the transfer. The last example is that the Municipality of Oslo has announced that they will avail themselves of the pre-purchase right for several tenants that have not previously been registered. Laws imposing any obligations do not necessarily have to be subject to criminal provisions in the event of a breach of the law. Punishment is a very intrusive reaction, which should be reserved for the most serious crimes in our society. The main purpose of the tenancy law is to help people own their own homes. In the view of the government, it is neither necessary nor appropriate for the police and the court to be given the task of persecuting infringements of the law on tenancy. We therefore do not join the draft representative and therefore agree with the majority in the case. Four other proposals from minorities have been put forward in the Committee. Let me make a brief common comment on these. In the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, it has been planned to initiate an investigation work related to the Renting Houses Act even before we received a press release on a breach of the law. It's more than 40 years old. The exercise of the right of pre-emption involves a complex and often long process. I therefore fully agree that the law is mature for revision. For this reason, I do not think that there is a need for the Storting to adopt a request decision on this either, because there is a work that has already been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1450	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1455	A number of reports in the business life of today have shown that the housing speculator Ivar Tollefsen has circumvented the provisions of the Renting Company Act and failed to report the purchase of the rental properties to the Municipality of Oslo. Circumvention of these provisions may result in substantial economic gains at the expense of tenants with limited financial resources. Does the Council of State agree that housing speculators such as Tollefsen have a good financial impact on the non-criminal nature of the law? Now the government itself has said that she is too good to comment on single actors, so then the question is, is the government calling about the house sharks?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1462	No, we don't. In fact, I am very provoked when a representative of the big business suggests that people call for house speculators because in this room they do not comment on individual cases, crimes, which are up to other authorities to settle. I don't rely on media lookups. We can have a lot of them, and we can do a lot of talking about them. I think it's serious to break the law – I think it's very serious to break any law. What the Moxnes representative gives the impression is that all laws are followed up by penalties, by criminal provisions. It's not like that. There's a difference between committing a crime and doing something about a criminal act. I believe that we have to dry in this room to prioritize what are the most serious crimes over others. The sanction in this law is good, in the sense that the right of pre-emption of the municipality is maintained. It's torn behind the mirror, and it gets them to experience, those who bypass the law, or break the law. Of course, it's not good to break the law. Then it's very good if you have a municipality that follows the law, and that follows it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1469	The Red-Green City Council in the Municipality of Oslo has now taken care of the cases where the obligation to notify has been broken and will purchase five of the tenements where the purchase has not been notified to the municipality. Tomorrow, this will be dealt with by the City Council of Oslo. How have the State Council and the Ministry of Local Affairs assisted the Municipality of Oslo in this matter, so that the outcome of these cases can be in line with the law?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1476	I don't think I understand the question. It is the municipality that enforces pre-purchase law. I've been a local politician myself, I've had a lot of issues about pre-emption rights. There is nothing to be helped or helped by the Ministry to put on the agenda. This is something you follow up as a municipality, it is the responsibility of the municipality to follow it up. You can enforce it if you want to. When Oslo Municipality wants it, they follow it up the way they should, according to the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1481	It was interesting to hear the statements of the Council of State. I notice that it is believed that a review has to be carried out. It is, of course, the government's right – and opportunity – to start an investigation and a review of existing laws, but I did not understand why it should be problematic that the Council of State got an extra order with it in the luggage, where the Storting expresses the wish to be part of that review. But what I'm really wondering, as the Council of State did not touch on in its statement, is that these pre-emptive processes can take a long time. The Council of State did not comment on what has been pointed out in the suspension, namely that it is considered that farmyards should not be able to throw out tenants during the pre-purchase process. It could be useful if the council had some thoughts about that process.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1488	It is such that in my world it is not necessary to open doors. We can get an extra order from Stortinget, but an order for something we have already decided to do, I think it is simply an unnecessary use of the resources. In 2017, the department sent a request to the five largest cities – most of which are in our urban areas – to ask how the law was practiced. We know that has been something different. We got some feedback on it, and based on that, we have considered doing a review. Then there is the question asked by the representative, also part of that assessment. We need to do an overall review of a law that is made at another time, which can still have aspects that are important and correct, but which – at least all feedback points – is enforced to a very different extent. It can be complicated both to understand and enforce, and then we have to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1493	It is impossible to grasp the government's view of serious crime in this case and its consequences – for this is about a matter where you can potentially have a million-dollar gain from breaking the law. The Council of State says that we should sort of distinguish between large and small. It's a little hard to realize that there's going to be a small case when there's a million-dollar gain. Then there is a need to ask the question: why is it that a strong player who can make millions to break a law is not to be affected by criminal law, while, for example, a strong player who can make millions to break a law? a person who has been ill and unbalanced and has made a minor mistake at Nav, should be able to end up with both reimbursement and criminal proceedings?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1498	I think I have to be even clearer, because there have been a number of accusations about what the government thinks and does not mean, and who we call about. I do not think this is a small matter. I don't think this is serious. I think it's very serious. I think I have to remind the representative that we have lots of laws and regulations – several hundred to several thousand – related to children, related to health, related to a number of aspects of life. They're not being punished, we're not criminally committing crimes. That doesn't mean we don't think it's serious, but we have to decide which rules are to be followed up by the police and the court. I don't think you should be here. The penalty for those who commit this crime, and who make a lot of money, is that the purchase is cancelled. The purchase is converted and the local authority may exercise the right of pre-purchase. I believe that is a good rice behind the mirror, and I believe that it is up to the municipalities to follow up in their municipality. As I said, I have had many things about pre-emption rights on the table in my time as a local politician because we enforced the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1505	There's no doubt about what the council does, and what the government does. They call around the house sharks in this case. They refuse to impose sanctions in the event of a breach of the law. There's obviously a big difference between what happens if someone does something wrong with their social security, what they can experience from punishment, and what crash billionaires and housing sharks can get if they break the law and deprive people of the opportunity to own their own housing, which is the consequence of these crimes. Then it's accepted from the Right. Then it's going to be rubber soles. Then there is a great deal of understanding from the Council of State that there should be no sanctions that can really lead to changes for these actors. I wonder why the Council of State disagrees with its own party in Oslo, Oslo Right, which is now in favour of punishment, financial penalties, for the domestic sharks in the event of a violation of the Law on Municipal Pre-Depensation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1513	I don't accept the premise on the question. I do not accept to be accused of turning the ring around someone who violates a law. I've said very clearly, very many times, that I don't support crimes, not in any way. But if the representative of Moxnes is now going to punish all the crimes in this society, you get a little job done. I believe that the main penalty will be a municipality that enforces the law, which follows, and to the extent that you detect a crime, you transform and cancel the purchase and promote the right to purchase. It's a very effective sanction. Therefore, fortunately, we have not seen many things of the kind that have been referred to in this case, and I do not know the result.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1518	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1525	It is easy in this room to agree that everyone should have the opportunity to own their own home, but there are some dividing lines in terms of the willingness to use tools to get it done. Owning their own home has been important in Norwegian policy. It has been particularly important since World War II and in the reconstruction of the country. We have used heavy instruments, including: heavy economic instruments, in order to help those who want them, to be able to own them. It goes on tax deductions on interest, it goes on a lighter tax on wealth when one owns a dwelling and has positive assets, and it also goes on to use the House Bank and other instruments to enable more people to own it. It is in this tradition that the law we have today to deal with, gets involved, because, as the Council of State said, it is about helping people who have not been able to own their own home, getting into the housing market and taking part in the economic benefits we are so lucky to have entered the housing market, actually have. It's about reducing the differences in society instead of maintaining them or increasing them, which some argue that the practices we've seen in Oslo have contributed to. So it's a question of redistribution in society. I am recording the debate that arose here whether it is critical to break a law. No, I think it's much more serious than critical, it's very serious to break a law. So the question is, is it serious enough to punish it – with fines, with imprisonment for those who have personal responsibilities, or with corporate sanctions? I am willing to assess all three, because I believe this is a serious crime. I'm not necessarily so concerned, although I think it's serious enough, that someone enriches. The problem is who they're enriching at the expense of, and it's those who have the worst assumptions, it's those who haven't had the prerequisites to get into a crowded housing market. And if you do that consciously, it's true that the Council of State says, if you're discovered, the purchase is cancelled. But that's if you're discovered. If you don't, there's no punishment. That's a good argument, and it has a general preventive effect. Just because this is a question of increasing or reducing differences in the country, the Workers' Party has been committed to promoting more proposals in the case. We have called for punishment because it has a general preventive effect, and because this is a serious crime. We have been committed to strengthening the responsibility of the municipalities to guide those who want to buy a town hall. We have been busy modernising the law, so that even when a rental yard is part of a larger portfolio, it is possible to use pre-purchase rights, and we have been concerned that the House Bank should be a tool in this. This law should have been amended, and I am pleased to hear if the Council of State intends to come to Stortinget with a proposal for a new law.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1538	The arguments of the government parties are simply not understandable in this matter when they first say that they are concerned that more people should own their own home, and that they want to spread power through it. It's absolutely right that not everyone promises to be punished, but that's not what we're discussing right now. We are discussing whether it is reasonable that violations of a law that can bring so much benefit and so dramatic consequences for a weak party should still be punishable. I record that the government parties and the Right believe that this is quite right, and that it gets like some others to sort things out. But this has serious consequences, and it is deeply unfair. It is not a question of saying that all laws are necessarily to be sanctioned. We're talking about this law and the reason in this case so that there won't be any penalties here, and I haven't heard the Council of State give one reason for that, just a general observation that not all laws have sanctions, and that it's critical. But it doesn't hold on to such things as this. It is very strange that the Progress Party also, which should be a kind of law-and-order party, chooses not to say anything in this matter. This affects people who do not have strong economic muscles themselves, and some can get a big gain without having any consequences if it is not discovered. Then it's close to thinking: well, this is a government for those who own, for those who have, for those who see themselves to speculate, and who know they're going free of punishment. It may be that the purchase is cancelled – yes, it can happen. But it may also not happen, and then you have a big win. It's like with financial crime that if you don't get off the hook, you never get rid of it. You never get to fight it, because it pays off, it pays off many times, and you're taken too rarely. It is important to do this now, to stop this, so that the apartments or complexes can be handled with a right of pre-emption, that those living there are given the opportunity to buy their own apartments, and that it is handled in this way in the future. These are part of the important housing stock that exists in cities and that needs to be made available to those who currently hire but want to become owners.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1547	We get some useful clarifications today as to why the right parties choose to reject sanctions in the event of a breach of the tenancy law. The clearest argument I have heard from the Council of State so far is that it would not be appropriate for the police and the courts to pursue these kinds of cases. Obviously, it's not appropriate that anything like that happen to the house sharks. It is not appropriate for people like Ivar Tollefsen, who have over 36 000 apartments, and who are probably enriching themselves by bypassing and breaking the law. It is not appropriate for him that this can be punished and lead to punishment. Everybody understands that. But for those who are cheated at the possibility of owning their own home — hundreds, perhaps thousands of people in Oslo, who are not among those who like to sponsor the Right election campaign, but who, on the contrary, have poor advice — it is appropriate that these crimes be punishable. Even Oslo Right understands this, which therefore supports Redt's proposal to impose sanctions in the event of a breach of the law on tenancy. The Council of State is unable to answer my question about her view that Oslo Right actually supports Red's proposal. It's probably because the Council of State does not have a good answer to the government's going against a common desire of the parties in Oslo, which sees that the law is not good enough, and that sanctions have to be imposed in order to have a preventative effect on the economic special interests, the billionaires, who are enriching to cheat people for the possibility of owning their own housing. On the other hand, we hear the Council of State come with an exodus, a profoundly impeccable exodus, that any violation of any law cannot lead to a prison sentence. Everybody understands that. This is not the proposal that is on the table in Stortinget today. It must also soon be recognised by the Council of State – read the case papers, understand what the proposal is about, namely to sanction violations of the tenancy law, whether more or less. We can only record that the Right Lands on this matter, in addition to exodus and inaccuracies, is calling about these billionaires, rather than supporting sensible proposals to impose penalties for violations of this law.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1560	I believe that the Red, SV and Workers' Party today have woken up and argued a little on autopilot. What government parties are doing is just saying that the law is not good enough as it is today. We see that more people have major problems practicing the law, but unlike the opposition parties, our clear goal is to make it easier for people to own the property they have rented for a long time. So we'll see if there's a need to make some changes. But for those people who are today trying to assert their right of pre-emption, you can ask the question, what would help them? Does it help them that some of the actors get a big fine – not that they get a simpler regulation to deal with? Does it mean that there are several dwellings that are subject to pre-emption rights, that you have the potential to obtain a large fine? Most likely it doesn't. What would help in this matter is to have clear and clear legislation that is easier for municipalities to practice and facilitate for those who intend to exercise their right to purchase. It is also clear that SV, the Workers' Party and Red in this case are most concerned with how to punish, not by seeing the whole of the people who today want to exercise the right of pre-emption. For the Right, it's clear that we want to make it easier for people to exercise the right to buy, but then you need an overall review. Then it's too easy to resort to punishment as the solution to all the challenges we see.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1569	The representative Bears Moxnes has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1574	Are you going to cry or laugh out of the Right, as if they care about the tenants, who are being cheated on the possibility of buying their own home by refusing and saying no to impose criminal provisions on the billionaires, who are earning wealth just to cheat people at this possibility? It is absolutely incredible to hear the Right in this Chamber in this case argue – or try to argue – for their view. They know as well as we do that if the Stortinge adopts the Redt's representative's proposal, it is the government that has to put forward proposals on how the criminal provisions should be. And when we get there, there'll probably be different views of what kind of punishment is most appropriate, but it's up to the Storting to decide if the government follows the order from Stortinget. That is at the heart of our proposal – it should soon be brought to the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1579	We don't argue on autopilot. We argue on the basis of a desire to control social development and a desire that the housing market should not be a free market, but a well-regulated market, because in a free market it is the strongest that always wins. There's a reason we got all these laws, as I said in my previous post. Many of the grips we took have just a background in the fact that there were speculators who spared people's distress and lack of housing. We want to get out of that. I am pleased that the representative Holm Lønseth admits that the law is not good enough, but I disagree with the conclusion that punishment will not make it easier. I would argue heavily that (a) it is a serious breach if you break this law, and (b) it has a general preventive effect that not only the transaction is cancelled and you lose profit, but that you are also being punished, either by the company or by individuals, and that will help more people to avoid deliberately circumventing the intention of the law. It will make it easier for more people to buy the dwelling they rent. Right argues that, and it's obvious that it's only the Right who has the word in the case and defends this, this won't do it any better. What we need is a review. We have proposed much more than a review. I hear no suggestion from the Right except that they categorically reject punishment. I hear no suggestions on how to do it better than to have a review. We have proposed to strengthen the local authorities' ability to exercise the right of pre-emption. We have proposed to give Husbank permission, frameworks and opportunities to support the tenants when they are buying their own apartments. It's the right-hand side. They don't want to support that. We have said that the law has to be amended so that in modern transactions where a tenancy or more are part of a larger portfolio, we have to have rules that make it clear how the tenants, who are affected, can reach the intentions of the law that is today. There's no support from the Right to that. We have proposed to extend the time available to organise, because it can be quite demanding when there is so much money at stake for the individual – organise to take over and take this promise. There was no support for that either. The only answer we get is no, they're against punishment, and then they have to have a review. We don't even get to know when you get to Stortinget with this law. I have heard the two right-wing representatives who have spoken, argue that this law is from a different time. Yes, it was another time when the housing speculators took the most serious advantage of people. This law is an inheritance from the time we countered it, as we wanted to strengthen the individual's ability to share in the benefits of owning his own home. We also need this law, because the Right's policy has not changed in these 40 years either.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1598	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice before in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1603	I have noticed that the Right's representatives are against punishment for crimes that bring great financial gain, because it does not work and has no purpose. It's quite eye-catching from a party that also thinks they're too law and order. There is a great need to have penalties in just such cases, because it is general preventive and fair. It's not going to pay to break a law and get a big private financial gain. But the Right is very quick ahead with changes in the law that punish disadvantaged people who make a mistake in their dealings with the public. Then it's very small sums that are going to happen before it has serious consequences for people. I notice that. I also notice that neither the Left, the Christian People's Party nor the Advance Party are saying one word about that matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1611	I must also say that I am very surprised at the turn this debate has taken. It's funny that the government parties don't understand it themselves. This case is not just about penalties. It is not clear to me at all that the Right wants the most to own its own home. This is a typical example of David’s fight against Goliath. The right does not support our other proposals in this matter either. We believe that the House Bank should be much more than a housing social instrument. We want to give the House Bank a bigger role in society – the government parties say no. We want residents to be given the opportunity to purchase their rental property, even when it is part of a larger transaction, for example. as part of a property company, and not only sell the tenancy – the right and the rest of the government say no. We want the deadline for decisions to exercise this pre-emptive right to be increased from four months to between six and eight months, because those who have tried to do so have told us that they need more time – the right and the rest of the government say no. We have said that it is important for municipalities to have a duty to provide guidance and information in order to clarify what the law says. These people have come to us and said they need more help. That's what we want to give them, and we propose that today -- the right and the rest of the government say no.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1618	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1634	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that up to five lines of response be given to posts by members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1643	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee on Cooperation in the case, which is concerned with strengthening the acquisition restriction in the ownership alliances, the authorisation to charge ownership fees and changes in the ownership law and the housing law on the regulation of short-term rentals. Firstly, the government proposes to increase the acquisition limit. It is also not possible today to buy more than two housing sections in the same company, but it has proved easy to circumvent the rules through indirect purchases. That is why the government is now proposing to tighten up, so that we ensure that the indirect purchase of a section is also subject to the restriction. It will also help to make it possible for those investing in housing to do so in several communities. In this way, we ensure that dwellings in a joint enterprise are spread across several owners, there is a better living environment, and it also follows up the government platform’s measures to prevent housing speculation. Secondly, the government has proposed to introduce a new general rule that regulates the number of days of short-term rent. Short-term rental means renting for less than 30 days. The general rule is 90 days a year in the government's proposal, but it can be waived by the individual society from 60 to 120 days. For housing law, it's an extension. So you go from zero days in short-term rent to 30 days without the board's approval. The opposition parties have different proposals that they will make for themselves. The Norwegian housing model is unique. 80 pst. of us live in a dwelling we own ourselves. It helps to spread economic power, and it gives predictability to individuals around their own housing situation. The fact that so many of us own our own home also allows us to largely decide how to use it. The right is fundamental skeptical in limiting the individual’s ownership of the owner-occupied dwelling. At the same time, we must recognize that people who live in the same country also do not live in a vacuum. Here it is about people who live closely, and my use of own housing can quickly go beyond others. Therefore, there are other rules on how to take advantage of one's own share of ownership or share of housing. Until now, the rules applicable to short-term rentals have appeared unclear. With the government's proposal, they become clearer, while opening up the sharing economy. The possibilities that the sharing economy gives us are positive. This means that you can speculate about your own income if you are on holiday, and you get a better resource use of the housing stock. Private rentals also help to take off the tops of the hotel industry, and this allows tourism to flourish throughout the country — to mention something. In principle, short-term rental is not a problem in itself. And for most people, the new rules will not be considered problematic if you believe the statistics from, for example: the company Airbnb. It is the frequent, partly professional short-term rental that some people find insecure, which is problematic, and which this proposal will bring to life. Therefore, it is also essential to strike a balance between the benefits of the sharing economy and to ensure that the individual is given a good living environment and that the individual has flexibility to make local adjustments. I am also pleased to propose legislation that is similar to the whole country, which ensures a level playing field and a level playing field. The right considers that this bill has found a good balance, both for the individual and for those using the sharing economy. It is not new to me that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left believe that the housing market needs to be regulated much more than it does today. They will demonstrate this once again with this case, where they will not provide sufficient flexibility to make local adjustments and also unnecessarily restrict the possibility of using short-term rental. This is about finding a balance, and I believe that the Workers' Party, the Centre's Party and SV restrict ownership much more than necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1662	In 2014, Jan Bøhler called for an alarm on the increasing level of subletting of apartments in the joint ventures in Oslo. The newspaper wrote about property companies that bought family apartments at Vestli and Stovner in Oslo, converting them into small cabins that were rented out to work immigrants. Up to 16 people rented in renovated family apartments. Five years have passed. The situation has only worsened. Dwellings are available to live in – not to invest in. More and more people experience extensive rentals of apartments in the town yard where they live. We want to introduce different forms of ownership restrictions that counteract hyblication and housing speculation. We want the commons to be able to stop the hyblicization and the disintegration of the living environment. Flaws, lack of contributions to hard work and the general decay of living environment around rentals are an increasing problem in our cities. At least that's not how we want it. We want good, safe neighborhoods, where people know each other, take care of the outdoors in common, greets in the morning and can take in the newspaper for each other when you're traveling. We suggest that those who own an apartment be able to rent it out for up to 60 days, possibly 90, if the board agrees. We suggest limiting the possibility of renting to two households in the same apartment. We don't want states where 16 people live in a rebuilt family apartment. In addition, we propose to reintroduce the right of tenants to buy housing and property to be segmented, with a reduction in prices. In May 2017, the Stortinget decided that the government would make proposals to limit hyblication. Now, almost two years later, the government has not made any such proposals. We're starting to get impatient. Where are the suggestions? With this I address the Workers' Party and SV's proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1675	The representative Siri Gassemyr Staalese has drawn up the proposals to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1680	In connection with the treatment of the new ownership law by Stortinget in the spring of 2017, some request decisions were made such as the government with Prop. 36 L for 2018–2019 is now following up. The theme was legislation for short-term rental and to ensure that Storting’s intention was followed up with an acquisition restriction. Therefore, the main objective of the proposition is to prevent professional operators from operating apartment hotels in owner-occupiers. Running rentals should initially be quite straightforward, but we have also heard of examples of rentals that are perceived as very intense, at the border of hotel activities. Such rentals may result in unsafe living conditions and excessive wear and tear in the joint. The aim is to limit the negative impact that short-term rental may have on short-term rental without cutting off the opportunities that are also present in short-term rental. It is proposed that short-term rental should be understood as renting of the entire dwelling for up to 30 days. In defining what is considered to be short-term rental, the Committee has clarified that days are to be understood as days. The Government proposes that the general rule should be 90 days of short-term rent per year in owner’s sections, but that there will be scope to derogate from this by choosing a different limit in its statutes. That way we give some space for action for the individual. Any derogation must be adopted at the annual meeting by a two-thirds majority. A maximum limit of 120 days and a lower limit of 60 days is proposed. This is supported by several hearing bodies, including the Huseierne Landsförbund with its 225 000 members. I note that the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left want the main rule to be 60 days. The Progress Party believes it is important to put the power where it belongs, i.e. with a majority of the owners themselves, and has a desire not to restrict the freedom of action too much. In the wake of the divisional economy, we are constantly seeing new industries, and we are witnessing innovation, competition and better resource use. New ideas and new opportunities must not only be seen as a disadvantage, but also as an opportunity. It is proposed to extend access to short-term rentals in housing properties. Owners of owner-occupiers will be able to operate up to 30 days short-term rental of owner-occupiers without the consent of the board. With this amendment, it will still be possible to operate with a combination of long-term and short-term rentals, without it being free of charge. The opposition is calling for measures to be taken against hyblication. This is a point of the government's political platform. The Ministry of Local Affairs and Modernisation has held a number of stakeholder meetings to learn about the impact and scope of the action. Many suggest that this is not a major problem, but can be seen as demanding for living environments in the few places this happens. Fuzzy rules mean that there is now a legal work going on in the government. In this case, as in most other cases, it has been demanding to weigh different considerations up to each other. The Progress Party has, after meetings with different views on the matter, the country that the bill as it is adopted today balances well the different views that have emerged in our meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1705	The centre party believes that a dwelling should mainly be used for living in. Renting will initially be within the scope of what is defined as residential purposes, but if the rental becomes too intense, it may be characterised by more or less hotel activities. You'll find that you're on the frontier in a lot of places, and in some places it feels like you might have crossed that line as well. That is at least the feedback we have received. Such intensive renting can contribute to an unsafe living environment, and not least can result in greater wear and tear. Living safely is a goal. In addition, many places may experience that there are challenges for those who want to live in a society where long-term rentals will be natural, but where access to rentals is scarce. The issue today is to limit the negative consequences of short-term rental. We agree with the government's intention to regulate access to short-term rental, but do not want to go as far as the government parties. So that's where the boundary is going, there's a disagreement about whether or not to regulate the market, which you could get the impression in representative Holm Lønneth's posts. In the definition of what is considered short-term rental, the Centre Party, like the rest of the Committee, believes that days have to be understood as days, something else would be very inappropriate and could create many discussions. We have noticed that the government's proposal for short-term rental is to be defined as less than 30 days, and the proposal that short-term rental of housing should not be allowed for more than 90 days in one year, unless otherwise specified in the statutes. There's a discussion about where the limit is going to go. The government's proposal is that there should be an upper limit of 120 days and a lower limit of 60 days, i.e. market regulation. The centre party believes that there is too much and significant over what has been reported to be on average today. It is therefore seen as an unnecessary opening and excessive flexibility, which can create imbalances in some areas. We therefore believe, like several hearing bodies, that a maximum of 60 days in short-term rentals per year in ownership sections is sufficient. We also believe that short-term rental should be understood as renting entire dwellings for up to 14 days. This is due to the fact that it will continue to be restrictive in relation to intensive renting for short-stay accommodation, while not too regulatory for the part of the rental market that is important for rental to, for example, hired workers or private persons who need a temporary dwelling for shorter or longer stays. Then there is also the possibility to enter into ordinary leases. We also underlined in our proposal the possibility to derogate from the general rule by setting other limits in the statutes. In view of the above, it is reasonable to fix a limit of 90 days within the range of 60 to 90 if two thirds of the annual meeting so decides. But 60 days is our starting point, like a number of hearing opinions. The aim is to provide sufficient flexibility for the individual while respecting the need to limit short-term rentals. Furthermore, we are positive about renting out parts of the dwellings, free loans or loans for leisure dwellings in joint ventures where all the units of use used as recreational dwellings are not subject to restrictions. In fact, there are several places in Norway today. I stress that we have registered that there is a concern that the limit on the fee for change of ownership corresponding to four times the legal fee will be quickly established as a standard for which the government parties base and want to open up. The centre party believes that this is a completely unnecessary fee even if you choose many places to claim it, and that such a law firm will quickly establish the fee rate of four times the legal fee as a standard that the seller is charged. There is an unnecessary cost that does not contribute to any improvement in the housing market, rather on the contrary. With that, I take up the proposal of the Centre Party and stress that we are going to vote against the proposal for a new Section 63(a) on the change of ownership fee.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1728	Then the representative willfred Nordlund has put forward the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1733	It is good that we now have more stringent rules for acquisitions in housing pools, and that we have rules in place to regulate short-term rental and the limits on what to live with in their close neighbourhood – and not just neighbourhoods, but in the rise in which you live. So I'm glad there's a bill coming. The Stortinget has also ordered the government to come. For the concrete proposals made by the government, SV believes that in the case of short-term rental, i.e. Airbnb, what is almost hotel operations in apartments, the government's proposal goes too far. On average, the number of days on average among those renting out today is much lower than that proposed by the government. For example, NBBL, which organises many of those living in blocks and lives closely, believes that there is reason to tighten up from the government's proposal to have a maximum limit of 90 days, to have a limit of 60 days, and to go up to 90 days after co-treatment. That's what SV joins. When we last dealt with the ownership law, we had more people at the hearing who lived in places where there was a lot of short-term rental. And there were quite serious reports coming from people who felt that there was a lot of pressure on the community, that there was a lot of trouble, and also that there was a lot of pressure on the common areas because there was no one responsible for the community there. In addition, there were some stresses on the infrastructure of the buildings because they were not dimensioned for that type of use. That's why we think regulation is good, but what the government is proposing is more liberal than what is necessary, and a greater burden for those who actually live there and are going to use it for housing. It's definitely an opening for those who want to use this kind of sharing economy. But it's not just a divisional economy, it's also a hotel business, in sections and parts that are bought up to run like that, and we think that's what we need to stop. Dwellings built as dwellings shall be used as dwellings. If you are going to feed and Airbnb is going to be pure nutrition, you're going to do it in areas that are regulated for that purpose. Then we want to reintroduce the rules on tenants' pre-emption rights into dwellings where the property is to be compartmentalised. It is very important to ensure security, and to ensure that more people have the opportunity to buy the dwelling they have lived in and rented for a long time. And here again, we see that the government parties are talking about the ownership line and that it's good, but it doesn't remove rules that give rights to those who are tenants, to be able to have pre-purchase rights. If such a right of pre-emption is to be effective, it must also give rise to a discount, as the law was before. This is not a purchase that takes place in a normal negotiation situation. The section is occupied by a rental right which also represents a reduction in value. These are very often groups which today do not enjoy the same benefits as those who own a dwelling, and which today often have an uncertain housing situation. To remove the right to a reduction in prices and to purchase rights is to weaken the ownership and housing security of those who are tenants. That is why we propose that this be put back into the law. So finally this with hyblication, where the government hasn't come up with anything. There we suggest that rules should be made so that at least one can put a bomb on this when it burdens the community's common installations, because if everyone did the same thing, this would simply not work. It's not a very intrusive rule, but it's at least a first step that you should be able to agree on now, to get this tightened up. It's possible the volume of this isn't very large, but where it occurs, it's a very big problem. Finally, I am promoting proposal No. 4, from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1750	The representative, Karin Andersen, has drawn up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1755	I am pleased that these changes to the law help to clean up the driving rules for short-term rental of housing sections. As you know, it's become very popular in recent years. We're not against Airbnb, but we're too organized, so people don't feel that what they thought they moved into as a housing complex, after a while evolves into an apartment hotel. It's possible to understand the frustration over it. It drastically changes the housing environment and the living environment. This amendment limits renting of the dwelling to a maximum of 30 days and, as a general rule, to a maximum of 90 days per year. This ensures the primary purpose, namely housing. However, the owner of the dwelling is given the opportunity to have a short-term rental income, e.g. when he or she is on holiday or has been away for other reasons. The good truth that my freedom is limited by the meeting with your freedom – in short, the principle of solidarity – applies here and makes it not free for unlimited short-term rental. The proposition also addresses the phenomenon of hybridisation, which is that a housing section is divided into several bedrooms and rented to a company or others with a short-term need for lodging. The government is working on this, including in the context of the revision of the Law on Planning and Building.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1765	On 7 December last year, the government presented proposals for changes to the Ownership Act aimed at preventing professional operators from operating ‘lodging hotels’ in housing pools. The proposal is based on a consultation note sent out last year by the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, and the hearing bodies' replies to this. Let me go through the rationale of each proposal: The Ownership Act today has a rule that, with some exceptions, prohibits anyone from buying more than two dwellings in one and the same company. It has been shown that it is easy to clarify today’s ban on ‘indirect purchases’, e.g. by establishing one or more companies responsible for the purchases. The government is now proposing to extend the rule so that it prohibits indirect purchases, and we believe that this proposal could contribute to better living environments in the communities. I'm glad to see that there's also consensus in the committee related to the need to tighten up the rule. I am also pleased that there is agreement on the need to regulate short-term rental, which is the second proposal the government is included in this proposition. The sharing economy is very good, but it is also important for the sharing economy in general — and for short-term rentals of dwellings in particular — to get it more orderly. The aim of the proposal is to ensure that we are able to use the benefits of the sharing economy, while at the same time not being at the expense of safe living environments. The proposal ensures, as I see it, that the positive effects of the sharing economy in Norway are ensured by the fact that private individuals can still rent out their primary dwelling over shorter periods of time. At the same time, the proposed rule limits the negative impact of short-term rental on living environments. Many owner-occupiers have experienced a very stressful housing environment because a neighbour actually operates short-term rentals on a permanent basis. At the same time, I record that the opposition is in favour of stricter regulation than we have proposed. However, I believe that 60 days a year is too strict a regulation. I state that the general rule of the Ownership Act that the use of a dwelling should not be harmful or detrimental to other users of the property applies irrespective of these 90 days. The Governing Board will therefore be able to sanction aggravating rentals long before the 90-day ceiling is reached. In addition, the proposal provides for a limit of 90 days or less within the range of 60 to 120 days. It makes it possible to adapt the rule to meet the individual needs of the community and to provide flexibility. The rule shall not apply to loans without payment and does not limit the possibility of a section-owner to lend the dwelling to family and friends. Since the rule does not apply to the rental of parts of the dwelling, it is still possible to rent, for example. one room while living in the dwelling. Of course, the 90 - day roof will not apply to leisure homes either. The third proposal is to make changes to the law on housing. We receive regular feedback that the audience feels that it is very strict that the owner of a flat cannot borrow or rent out his dwelling for a week or two, without having to seek the consent of the board in advance. That is why we propose to open up 30 days of short-term rent in housing laws, so that residents in housing laws can also get an entry into the sharing economy. I am happy to see that there is also agreement on this in the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1786	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1791	During the Storting hearing, several hearing bodies considered that a limit of 60 days’ short-term rental in one year would provide a good balance between the living environment and the possibility of short-term rental. NBBL pointed out that legalising a 90-day limit would be an extension of access to short-term rental compared to the current situation. Does the Council agree with this, and if not, why?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1798	In particular, I have just explained why we have landed on something else, and also stated that there is flexibility in the system so that governments can adopt stricter or further access to regulation. There's no fasit with two lines below. We're trying to solve a problem that's there too few, fortunately. In most places in the country, this is not a problem, but where there is a problem, we want to tighten up. At the same time, we want to safeguard what is positive with the sharing economy, what is important, that we have respect for private property rights, that people can have flexibility, and that we use capacity. This is what we've landed on. Rules aren't cut in stone; they can change if it turns out that access here is too wide, but I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1805	In May 2017, the Stortinget decided that the government would make proposals to limit hyblication. Now, almost two years later, the government has not made any such proposals. Why has the decision of the Storting not been followed up by proposals to limit hyblication, and when can the Storting expect these proposals to come?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1810	I agree that this has taken time. It's both because we have a lot to do, and because it requires more than a change in the ownership law – it also requires a change in the planning and building law, and it's a comprehensive job. I can promise that the Stortinget will soon be presented with proposals to prevent hyblicating. We fully agree with the objective. It has taken some time, but we will soon come up with a matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1815	There has been a discussion about the so-called change of ownership fee that you wanted to open up to claim. Now, as you know, the centre party is very sceptical about this, like several of the hearing parties in this case. The reason is that the fee you're talking about is to cover the billing of common costs, you have to bring new owners into the computer system, and then you have to set up electronic payments. With four times the legal fee plus VAT, which I'm counting on the Council of State sees as new income, we're talking about a fee rate of 4,520 kroner, which most people will assume is going to be set as a standard rate. It requires an administrator to work on this for half a day at NOK 1000 an hour. It may be difficult to see that the few things to do will require such a rate. Does not the Council of State see that this is now going to be the new established standard and a new lucrative area for business executives to demand income from those who are going to sell housing at the expense of them?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1820	I can see that what we're doing here is clarifying a warrant. This is not a new fee, it is a fee that is required today, but where the permit is clarified, and where we set a maximum limit. Many people have paid more than this fee today. So I believe this is a simplification and an improvement for home buyers.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1825	I thank you for your answer. I am enough of the feeling that this is not going to lead to a simplification and a improvement. The fact that you want to set a permit is fine, but you could put yourself at a significantly lower amount than the government and the Council put forward in their proposal. So it's $4,500 plus VAT to make as simple a grip as bringing new owners into a computer system, setting up an electronic payment and making the bill for common costs. At least it's well paid. But what I'm asking is, what kind of grip is it really you think about taking on Svalbard? It has affected the ministry in its reference to the hybridisation of the proposition, such as: The local government has pointed out is a challenge you see?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1832	I see that what we're doing is simplifying and improving this home. This is a maximum limit. We're not saying that the fee should be just this, this is a maximum limit. And that's for the sake of consumers.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1837	When it comes to hyblicating, I have to get back to the matter we have notified, which has taken a little too long, and I understand the impatience, but we are going to come back to the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1841	The Council of State was concerned to the extent of the changes to limit hyblication. In SV’s view, changes to the Planning and Building Act – and not least the Ownership Act – will be needed in order to bring this about. It is perhaps where, if possible, it is even more burdensome for neighbours than renting à la hotel, for here there are very many people and loads on the communal facilities that are completely outside what they are dimensioned for. My question to the Council of State is whether she agrees that there is a need for further changes in several laws. In the past, the government has signaled that all of this can be arranged by the Planning and Building Act, and that does not think SV is sufficient.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1846	As I said, I'm going to come back to the work we do and propose changes, but precisely because it's about looking at several laws and rules, this has taken some time. Hyblicization is not one thing, hyblication can be very much. That's what makes it a little bit demanding. When you're a local politician, for example. builds a house, regulates a house, it can live one person in a house and it can live ten people in a house. You can have small families, and you can have large families – and you can hire friends and acquaintances. This is pretty difficult matter, but it's a big problem in some places, and we have to try to enforce it in a better way than what we've done, and so we're going to get back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1851	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. I'm sorry, but it was the Council's answer now that I thought was unclear. It sounds as if the Council of State believes that the issue is that someone has large families or not. That's not what it's all about. This is about dividing up a dwelling, which is one section or one dwelling, into a lot of furniture that you saw rented out. I see the council shaking her head, but what she said in an answer to me right now was that it could be about it. Then she's probably talking more about the regulation of single homes. I don't know what she really meant, but this is about sections or housing camps, which are harder to do these things with because they're more regulated. This is about professional renting largely, where you split apartments and rent them out to individuals who are not members of the same family and who often have short-term rental contracts and very little responsibility for the living environment that is created in the places where this happens. That's why it's urgent to do this. That's why I thought there was a need to clean up that very thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1868	I am sorry if I made the debate unclear. The point is, it's not just where you split up a section and make more housing units, you have hyblicization. You also have a hybridization if the neighboring house is inhabited by ten students. But the difference between ten students or a family of ten is not always as clear, and that's why I say it requires a review. That's not all you can regulate through land policy and the Planning and Building Act, because this is a very big issue that has several sides. My point was not to distort the debate, but to explain that it can be quite complicated to regulate who and how many can live in different units.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1873	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1889	I would like to thank the Committee on Good Cooperation and it is a unanimous committee that supports the government's proposal to amend the maritime law of 24 June 1994. This Decision amends the Act to allow the Maritime Directorate to continue to be able to retrieve information from the Public Register without prejudice to professional secrecy when necessary for the performance of maritime tasks. The Directorate-General for Maritime Affairs has previously been authorised by the Directorate-General for Taxation to obtain information based on the Law of 16 January 1970. When the People's Register Act was amended in 2016, it was not taken into account that the Maritime Directorate would still have access to public records. Pursuant to Section 10-2 of the 2016 Public Register Act, the law governing the disclosure of information from the public register covered by the obligation of professional secrecy requires that it be provided for in the legislation relating to the various subject areas. Therefore, if the Maritime Directorate is still to have access to this, the law of the sea must provide the basis for this. This proposed amendment of the law thus continues the legal status under the People's Register Act of 1970 and is an adaptation in line with the new People's Register Act of 9 December 2016 No. Eighty-eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1902	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1918	I would also like to thank the Cooperation Committee on this matter, which today is a unanimous committee supporting the Government's proposal for amendments to the EEA Trade Act, which concerns the handling of complaints concerning accreditation decisions. The proposed amendment implies that the Board of Appeal does not have decision-making powers but gives its recommendation to Norwegian accreditation, which determines whether the complaint should be followed. This is done with the exception of Section 34 of the Administrative Act and the competence of the Board of Appeal. Under Section 34 of the Administrative Act, the Board of Appeal shall carry out a complete retest of the individual decision. The amendment to this proposition implies that individual decisions on accreditation cannot be fully challenged in the appeal procedure but that the Board of Appeal delivers an advisory opinion and that final decisions in the appeal case are taken by Norwegian accreditation. The purpose of the proposed amendments in this proposition is to ensure that the complaint mechanism of Norwegian accreditation meets the requirements of the international accreditation standard. Accreditation is a formal recognition of the conformity of the quality systems and competences of the activities with national and/or international requirements. Accredited activities may test and approve compliance of products and services with the applicable legislation. Accreditation is an international system and is used as a tool to promote cross-border trade in goods and services. For Norwegian enterprises, accreditation means easier access to export markets by enabling product requirements to be met in Norway and to be valid in large parts of the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1929	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1945	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a change of lines of up to six lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1954	The representative proposal that we are discussing asks the government to draw up a big message on how Norway can ensure national ownership of strategically important enterprises, infrastructure and technologies. At the same time, the proposers recall how forward-looking policymakers, with Johan Castberg as the initiator and driver, adopted the concession law at the beginning of the 20th century, which ensured national right to dispose of important natural resources such as falls of the foot and mineral resources. They also show that the same long-term thinking led to the development of Norwegian oil policy from the late 1960s, a policy that ensured that the large foreign oil companies contributed to positive social developments that created jobs and wealth across the country through tax and technology transfers. When the proposers point out that Norway would be a very different country today if the values of Norwegian natural resources had not benefited the entire community, it is easy to agree. However, with regard to the question of whether there is a need for a single single notification on how Norway can ensure national ownership of strategically important enterprises, infrastructure and technologies, the majority of the Committee, consisting of the government parties, consider that it is not. The majority agree with the proposers that technological and safety developments require a continuous assessment of national security as a justification for state ownership. Nevertheless, the majority of the opinion that these considerations are taken into account in the previous ownership message is Notify. St. 27 for 2013–2014, and through the work on a new growth report on state ownership, which is scheduled to be presented in autumn 2019. In a letter from the Ministry of Economic Affairs dated 10 December, the Council of State indicates that national anchoring of important companies, including national anchoring of head offices, as justification for state ownership in corporate categories 2 and 3, and key competences, are mentioned in the previous ownership notification. He also indicates that this thematics will be incorporated as part of the ongoing work on a new biggest message of state ownership. Furthermore, the majority believe that the national security law, which entered into force on 1 January of this year, is well on the way to ensuring the security and preparedness conditions that proposers wish to highlight in their own monitoring report. The Security Act, Chapters 9 and 10, includes detailed provisions on collateralised acquisitions, security agreements with suppliers, supplier clearance, alerting obligations and reporting obligations in the event of acquisition of business. It is also important to stress that the Security Act applies to State, county and municipal bodies as well as to suppliers of goods or services in the context of security-graded acquisitions. It is explicitly stated in Section 1-2 of the Act. The majority also consider that there is some confusion in the opinion of the proposers when they refer to the importance of national ownership of capital intensive production in order to ensure the taxation of profits. If the country is to base such a broad definition on ownership policy, it would have to entail large acquisitions of shares in order to ensure control of capital-intensive enterprises in which the State does not currently have interests or is a minority shareholder. The four government parties do not want such a major change of state ownership assumptions and refer to pages 37 to 38 of the Granavolden Declaration, which states: «Norway will continue to have state ownership of selected companies. In some companies, this may be right to take care of important societal responsibilities and competences and to ensure that head office functions are located in Norway. The government will conduct a responsible and predictable ownership policy based on established principles of state ownership. The government is open to value added transactions and strategic alliances related to its ownership positions. Decisions shall be based on current business cycle, market conditions, the financial position of companies and general prospects.» And it also states that the government will ‘implement a gradual reduction in government holdings in companies with commercial returns as their main objective’. With the reasons I have explained here, the majority in the committee's position recommends that the proposal of the representatives of the tying representatives Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum, Sigbjørn Gülsvik, Geir Pollestad and Willfred Nordlund for a big message of national ownership in strategically important companies, infrastructure and technologies is not adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1976	I want to start by thanking the proposers for actually promoting a very important proposal, it is important to discuss it. Societal infrastructure or society-critical companies, or, for that matter, resources, are quite essential to discuss from time to time. The question is whether one does it in a good enough way, as it is in the different arrangements today, and in the issues that come to the Storting, or whether it is right to bring this together in a larger context. That is what I think lies in the proposal by the rapporteurs. I think there's a need for that. When I hear the rapporteur's justification that the government parties do not follow up the decision, I do not think it is good enough coverage to say that today's ownership message, in parallel with the Security Act, is sufficient to ensure that the Storting gets enough discussion of socially important infrastructure, businesses, ownership, etc. It's a lot, it's about ownership of the hydropower resources, about the water, about the electrical production and distribution infrastructure, about fibers related to the 5G discussion that has now been – who should own, who should operate – and we've had it with regard to vulnerable infrastructure related to the transport sector, etc. I think it's at a time when the vulnerability of society just increases, would have been wise that one had actually discussed it in a context, which I feel the government parties don't want to do – you think it's good enough as it is today. So I just want to stress that it's great that one will come back to this in the ownership message, but the ownership message neither by the government nor through the treatment in previous times in Stortinget has taken sufficient account of just the vulnerability and the part that lies up to the infrastructure, which may be important to own. So it's a defective piece so far. I must admit that when we see that the government parties are now united, we do not get a majority for our primary proposal, the minority proposal. Nevertheless, I would challenge the Council of States whether, to a greater extent than before, in the ownership message, he will come on themes covered by this Document 8. If he can guarantee it and assure the Storting that he gets into this in the ownership message – vulnerable infrastructure, ownership, etc. – to a small extent, the extent of social security, one might well expect the discussions related to it. But if he does not come with that confirmation and does not want to go further in the ownership message than he has done up until now, in a way, the reasons of the government parties are very weak in order not to go into the document 8 proposal that exists. I address the proposal to which the Labour Party is a co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1989	Then the representative of Terje Aasland addressed the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e1994	The centre party is concerned with securing national ownership of enterprises, infrastructure, and that is the background to this proposal. The goal in itself is not ownership, but control given by ownership. When different legislation and international obligations limit our ability to ensure national control through legislation, ownership is a good way to do so. In view of the view of the Centre Party, the Foundation must be provided, for example: for state ownership, be something more than just securing income and head office. It is also a fact that this government does not have the best history to show. We think that the Kongsberg Group was proposed for the hall in the previous magnification period. So the government had no idea who could buy a large Norwegian weapon manufacturer. The Prime Minister was in question and defended the decision. Slowly, but surely – with good help, among other things. from the Kongberg Group itself - I believe that the government was going to do what they were doing, and fortunately the proposal was not getting any more. This is an example of the lack of consciousness and spinal cord reflex that I feel today's government party has. Another example was the sale of the Flytrain. There was no one who could come with a good foundation for why the Fly train was to be sold. However, the salsa list was checked. Telenor is on the sals list today. There is no good reason either. We have examples of proposals for the Storting to liberalise the concession laws in agriculture, open to foreign ownership of Norwegian soil. Fortunately, there was also a stop in Stortinget. There is a discussion about the technology of the 5G network, where Chinese interests, or the Chinese company Huawei, are central. The rule is that you do not want to take a clear position. Another example is Oslo Børs. It's hard to understand: why is it so important that a foreign exchange group takes over Oslo Børs? Should it not be in the interest of the Storting to secure a scattered ownership of the stock exchange? The wish of the centre party is to secure national control and to think more broadly than just that contained in the ownership message. The comments from the majority party show that they do not understand the seriousness and they do not understand the meaning of ownership to ensure Norwegian control, for example. over central infrastructure. The central party wants a broad approach to use ownership to ensure social control of the infrastructure, and for ownership, we are not at the forefront of using state ownership more actively to ensure the presence of enterprises and their head office in Norway. The majority refers to the ownership message and the security law. This is a far too narrow a perspective on the problem that the Center Party wants to air. I want to go so far as to say that one is pretty naive in its approach to pretty big and important issues. And what the big deal goes wrong with saying no to this message is that one doesn't get a whole discussion, which in many ways is about the same thing, but in a number of different areas of society, and where I had hoped that the Storting could get a wide debate. That is what the government party – the Christian People’s Party, the Left, the Right and the Advance Party – today has announced that they will say no.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e2007	There's a fundamental discussion that lies under the debate we're going to have here today, and that's what kind of entrance you're going to have to have into national ownership. Kåre Willoch, who in many ways is the symbol of the Conservative Right, has for many years pointed to the importance of maintaining national control over certain key businesses. What he particularly pulled out was hydropower, petroleum, fish and finance, and he was among others. very stated above the unnecessary by the fact that Nordea in its time became Swedish. In the meantime, Nycomed has become English, the state has sold itself completely out of breeding, which is the starting point for Marine Harvest, if has become Finnish, the Kongsberg Group has been tried to sell, one should sell down to Telenor, etc. It's very difficult, with today's right-hand side, to find a principal input on these questions. The state of Norway is doomed to own. That means that when you sell out of a company in Norway and get a surplus, these money is used for ownership elsewhere. So one moves ownership, sells into companies that have their activity in Norway, and through, for example, State pension funds abroad buy up elsewhere in the world. So what is basically right about selling down in Norway and up in other countries when the state is doomed to own is very hard to understand. What Willoch was concerned about was that one had to control key industries — both to control the development of key areas of Norwegian society and business, and to maintain skills and jobs. Because we know that when things go bad, for example. industrial enterprises, they withdraw the activity of the «mothership» where they have their principal activity, where they have their head offices and their ownership. It has one, for example. set here, now, with REC Solar, which has gone to cancellation – choose to mark permits – by adding a whole range. One actually sees it in all of this area as the Council of State knows quite well, here, a half island outside Porsground. The activity formerly characterized by Statoil and Hydro. Now it is largely foreign company that operates there; one has sold out. The consequence of this policy is that we are left with enormous financial capital, but no control on each enterprise should have its activity or its jobs. For SV's part, we see this in conjunction with the ownership message that comes. We're going to put proposals there that are also related to our efforts in industry and industry in general. We believe it is entirely decisive that the state and the public increase its ownership and its investments in key industries in the future, in areas where we invest heavily. We can also help to build up industry and industry while ensuring control of the skills and workplaces that exist.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e2020	I agree that we should take care of national interests, and we should ensure national security. But then there is probably a little disagreement about which instruments should be used. I just have a slight remark first, and that's that at least sometimes it sounds as if national ownership is the same as state ownership. It's not. The most important national ownership we have in Norway is private national ownership. I'm e.g. It is very much in agreement that a disadvantage in depleting national ownership in private hands is that in the long run, it is possible to undermine the tax base. But then one must also be concerned about how we can build private Norwegian ownership, ensure local Norwegian ownership, and ensure that Norwegian companies can grow and grow here by investing money. But then it's like this discussion is about a lot different – apparently. We've got a new law on national security. It is justified by an adaptation to the current risk and threat picture. The law has an extended scope. It includes enterprises that produce goods, provide services or operate activities that are essential to our national security. This may, for example: concern producers or service providers for the overall defence, but also enterprises that contribute to the maintenance of key social infrastructure relevant to our national security. The Safety Act is cross-sectoral and each department is responsible for taking decisions against enterprises subject to the law. For the enterprises subject to the law, rules on ownership control and rules on acquisitions to the enterprise will apply. The ownership control rules provide the authorities with a tool to assess whether buying-in of holdings in the enterprise poses a safety risk. In that case, the authorities may intervene, either by stopping or laying down detailed conditions for the purchase if the purchase is considered to result in a – branded wording – not negligible risk of threat to national security interests. Furthermore, acquisitions that provide suppliers with access to information, information systems, infrastructure and features covered by the Security Act will be able to be stopped by reason of it. We therefore have mechanisms in the Security Act to take care of many of the concerns of the proposers. I believe that it is primarily through regulation that we should safeguard national security interests. The second major question is whether the country should be a major owner in strategically important parts of Norwegian business. The answer to that is yes and no. Yes – because this government also has some clear principles about where the government should own it. We're going to own where it's important to maintain our head office in Norway. We have to own where we have a purpose of ownership, for example. that it is vital national infrastructure or that kind of thing. But that you have to keep this very overall or broad approach through systematic large government purchases of shares, I think that's wrong. Firstly, other countries are able to take this kind of consideration without a high level of state ownership. We already have a large state ownership in Norway, and I do not think it is reasonable or practicable for the state to own all the companies that are important to Norway in a broad sense – in a broad sense. Nor does the State have any phase in which companies will be strategically important in the future. Therefore, it makes sense to have a ownership policy that ensures that we own where there are good reasons. But where we don't have good reasons to own it – or to sum it up very simply: where the state has no other reason to own it than returns, as any private owner – there's no reason why the state should be inside. There, this government believes that we should sell ourselves out. This applies, for example: the ownership of SAS, which historically had a strategic justification. But today the reason for the owner's entry is a little under 10 pst. nothing but collecting returns, as any private owner. In addition, it is very important to say about private ownership, and about the ability of private ownership to develop just the skills, networks and capital. It's also worth remembering that when you invest in Norway, you don't just do it as a faceless capital position, but because that's where we have the skills, the knowledge and the production environments you want. That being said, it is – and I just stress it – important that the public should own strategically important infrastructure either directly or through companies. In the ownership message, we also need to discuss whether there are new elements, new assessments of what is in national interest and related to national security, which will also affect the assessments of what we own today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e2041	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e2046	That there is a difference between the Right Party and the Working Party, for example: the state ownership, there is no doubt about it. The right-hand goal and ideology are to sell out as much as possible. They've shown it through history. One of the most strategically unwise approaches to public ownership The right has had in the last ten to fifteen years is perhaps the ownership of our hydropower resources, where in 2007 they argued strongly that it should be opened up and outsourced to the private. But that's not the state ownership that the proposal takes up. It is the national ownership related to important infrastructure, key social critical devices, etc. I thought perhaps it was more likely to get a consensus in the Storting that it is important to build up the national ownership relating to important sectors of society that it is important to maintain. In any case, I sometimes hear that the Right is concerned with the national ownership. But when I hear the Minister of Industry now, he doesn't seem so busy with it, because then he seems more concerned with polishing and creating rhetoric than with politics.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e2051	I'm a little unsure about what the question was, but it's a substitution, so you probably don't have to ask a question. These questions are important to discuss, and there are many occasions. The majority has every opportunity to ask questions both in writing and orally, to have interpellations, to promote Document 8 proposals, to discuss them – in addition to all the issues that the government comes with. What I found difficult was just that this was a very unpresis order from Stortinget. It was a broad approach, as the representative Pollestad said, but it was a very broad approach that makes it very difficult to see what it is the Storting actually order a message about. Are these the security policy aspects? Is that tax policy and how it affects a small business on Sunnmøre or in Telemark? Is it the development of overall private ownership in Norway, or is it the state ownership? That's one of the reasons why I think this order wasn't good enough, and that's where the majority of the Stortinget agrees.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e2059	It is not small businesses that this proposal is primarily about. It's about infrastructure, societal critical tasks, etc. The proposal is quite specific. He says: ‘The government is asked to draw up a big message on how Norway can ensure national ownership of strategically important enterprises, infrastructure and technologies.’ So the government parties say that there will be a return to the ownership message that will be submitted to the autumn, which deals with state ownership. Can the Council of State now confirm that the Government Party writes in the suspension is correct, that a more comprehensive discussion of national ownership related to strategically important enterprises, infrastructure and technologies will come in connection with the ownership notification?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e2069	The ownership notification is the overall overview of all the country owns, of the companies owned by the country. The current ownership notification also assessed national security in relation to, for example: Nammo and a couple of other companies, so that's of course an assessment that will come in the ownership announcement. Now the government parties at Stortinget are given a concrete answer for exactly their comments, but the point is very simple. It's that it's natural to view a lot of this as a discussion about the state ownership of the companies, and we already have a big message that deals with it. It's quite natural, I think, that the big message addresses new discussions, new issues, including assessments of whether there are changes in, for example. the international security situation which also affects why we own specific companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e2074	I don't think the Minister of Industry answers clearly enough. I have to expect the government parties to express what the government is going to come back to in the fall of the big news of state ownership. They say in the vote that the ‘themes addressed by the proposers will be affected’, i.e. that one will then have an assessment of national ownership, strategically important, etc. I assume that the Minister of Industry can confirm that the majority in the Grand Duchy, i.e. the parties which are his parliamentary support in the Grand Duchy, actually supported the Minister of Industry in order to get back to this in the context of the declaration of ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e2079	As I said in my previous answer: Of course. But I don't think the majority of the Stortinget have ordered it, is that we're going to turn the ownership message into a big message that's all about ownership in Norway. That's not what you ordered. It can't be understood that way. I think, as I read the comments of the majority, that this is essentially perceived as a matter of state ownership. There's also a good reason to think about it even when you look at the comments of the minority in the Great Britain, so I don't think there's any discrepancy between what the majority of the Great Britain is saying, what I'm saying, and what will come into the ownership message. But it's possible the representative and I get to order us an hour of par therapy to talk better together and hear each other better, because I'm not quite sure if I'm catching the question, and that's why maybe the representative doesn't get the answer he's asking.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e2084	Then the Minister of Industry will see if this party is doing better! And let me make this clear right away: in the Center Party we are very clear that there is a difference between national ownership and state ownership, and that private ownership is also a central part. So this is a proposal that actually fives a lot further than the Minister of Industry's impact field, it's just a tab. The Minister of Transport, the Minister of Justice and a number of other ministers are equally concerned. But let me grasp what is the Minister of Industry's responsibility. In Stortinget on 9 October 2018, the Council of State said that “in changed times, state ownership can also gain new reasons.” It was the Council of State within its post no. Then my very open dialogue question to the Minister for Industry: What does the Minister for Industry think about when he talks about new reasons and new moments?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e2093	The closed and boring answer is that we will come back to that in the ownership message. But since the representative asks a little openly: it is quite obvious that mobile infrastructure, digital infrastructure, has become a vital social interest today. There can be no doubt about it at all. It wasn't like that 15 to 20 years ago. It is also quite obvious – and this is not my area – that international security policy discussions are different than they were ten years ago. It may also – I stress – have implications for the assessments and justifications of the country’s ownership policy. But that's the job we're going to do, and then we're going to deliver it to Stortinget in the usual way to get the good, big and broad discussions both on how to justify the state's ownership policy and on how it should be.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e2098	I thank you for the answer, and I feel that the dialogue is going well. However, in order to challenge what was said about ownership of infrastructure: Is it to be understood that a person now makes new assessments of, for example, infrastructure ownership? the Telenor salsa authorisation, and that one sees the value of having a heavier national control over e.g. the mobile network, and to the extent that it cannot be achieved through regulation, does one consider it to be something that can be achieved through ownership?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e2103	With regard to the specific issues relating to the mobile network, 4G and 5G, the Minister for Digitalisation is responsible. Then it's like this government's policy has also been that we want to have – if you want to call it a national control or a state share in Telenor to ensure that the head office function is here. So there won't be anything new. The last answer is that in connection with the ownership message I do not notify large, extensive conversions and will not do so either. I believe it will primarily be characterised by the continuity of ownership policy, to which the Stortinget has joined. But it's also that in the job done in the department, and in the departmental communities, you go through every single company completely again. We're totally dependent on doing that. That's what ownership is supposed to be, and what the Stortinge should know that they get is a thorough professional job from the departments before it is delivered.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e2110	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e2117	I don't know if it would have helped so much on the outcome of the matter about the Minister of Economic Affairs and the undersigned had gone to a couple therapy. We might have understood each other better, but we might not have gotten a better pair for that reason. Back to the case: I think in a way the Minister of Industry reveals himself a little when we talk about Telenor. When it comes to drawing sales mandates that have been given to Telenor, based on security, he says that it is not his responsibility, but the responsibility of the Minister for Digitalisation. Is it only the Prime Minister who has full responsibility for what we are now discussing? It must in some way be an addressee of the government who can take responsibility both for state ownership and for motivating and developing national ownership in private hands. That's what this case is about. One cannot read the setting in such a way that it is only the state ownership this is all about. On the contrary, the minority comment also makes a very clear reference to what has been going on in the social debate in the last few months on the 5G network, the development and control and security associated with it. The question then is: is there a technology and device in society that is so important that one has national ownership of – not only in terms of the network and that kind of thing, but also technology, etc. – that we should have some cooperation relations that supported it more strongly with national control, not necessarily at the hand of the state, but it could also be at the hand of the state? I allow myself to ask again whether it is the government parties who have misunderstood the proposal in the vote when they refer to the ownership message in order to deepen it with national ownership, or whether it is the Minister of Industry who has not sufficiently read the instructions of the majority of the Grand Duchy. It's okay to clarify it, because now we've got a expectation that even if we don't get a majority in favour of this proposal in the Stortinget, the ownership message for the autumn will include this theme. That is what the majority in this Chamber actually says and obliges the Minister of Industry to join, while the Minister of Industry says that he does not intend to fully comply with what is the intention of the proposal. I think it's okay to get clarity in that during the day.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e2128	Now I'm convinced we don't need par therapy. We could have gone right to divorce, the representative Aasland and I. I must admit that I am not quite able to catch up with the problem. Firstly, of course, it is in Stortinget that each state council primarily responds to its responsibilities. That doesn't mean there's no cooperation between departments. This does not mean that the government, which is the body the representative of Aasland asks for, coordinates and has overall responsibility. Here in Stortingen, we can, of course, move into the responsibilities of other government councils – now that the Security Act is also the responsibility of the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries – as you sometimes do. But the main point is that each state council responds to its own. For example: Telenor, it's just an area where we have state ownership. It is true that state ownership is not justified by security policy issues, it is justified by head office functions. It's a sales agent, but it's not a sales agent. Moreover, the Workers' Party – as far as I remember, and I have to be corrected if I remember wrong – with certain conditions of strategic partnership, has also helped to reduce the state's ownership of Telenor. Back to the starting point: The majority of the Stortinget say that ownership, which is about the entire country’s ownership, also has to assess security policy issues, other relevant issues related to that part of national ownership. You can go to private ownership, but I don't understand that you're asking for a whole new big business message that is completely different from any other previous ownership message, which includes the private, national ownership on a broad basis. I didn't realize that. If I'm wrong, someone from the majority would have to correct me, because it's important for a council of states – even in a majority government – to understand what the majority believes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e2142	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e2158	At the request of the Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that up to six lines of reply are given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e2167	Families with children with special needs shall have an equivalent offer. This is about giving equal opportunities for personal development, participation and life for all. Today’s Training Act § 13-7 requires municipalities to have an offer of school leave before and after school time for 1–4 students. steps and for children with special needs from 1 to 7. steps. Proposals by the proposers for a free school leave scheme for children with disabilities after the fourth stage will require a change to current legislation. A national evaluation of the school leisure system has been highlighted on issues related to parental and families with children with special needs. In the evaluation, it may appear that parents of children with special needs are less satisfied than other parents, although the sample of parents cannot be considered representative. This applies, inter alia, to: issues related to manning, competence and type of offer. It will therefore be important to follow up the national assessment of the SFO with regard to the quality and competence of the EEAS on early and inclusive communities. The follow-up to the evaluation shall be part of the EEAS Communication on Early Efforts and Inclusive Communitys and will be submitted to the EEAS in the autumn of 2019. We're looking forward to that. Although part of the municipalities have already introduced free space or reduced parental benefit for children with special needs of 5 to 7 steps, a general system of parental exemption will result in a change in current legislation and have financial consequences that need to be addressed in the ordinary budgetary procedures. The majority agree with the proposers that the transfer of pupils between school and SFOs located in different geographical locations is unfortunate. It's about children getting in the surroundings they know, and meeting staff and participating in them are safe. Children with special needs for care after school also have such needs at school. So the majority would point out that even though colleges are not required to offer SFOs, it is positive that many fresh schools nevertheless choose to have such an offer. It may be challenging for the SFOs in fresh oils not to have the same framework conditions as those offered by the municipalities themselves, which can be subsidized from the local government budget. If regulation of parental payment is introduced in the SFO, e.g. moderation schemes for low-income families should be considered to ensure that fresh-sole pupils can participate in the same moderation schemes if the fresh-sole is offered an SFO. The minority indicates that there are differences in both the size of the parent’s own payment and whether an SFO-like offer is made even after the 7th stage. I assume that the minority presents its views and suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e2184	The centre party believes that an inclusive common school is about creating a comprehensive school day that ensures the ability of all children to learn, to succeed and to thrive on the basis of their assumptions and needs. Both the Training Act and the SFO Quality Development Indicative Framework Plan are clear that the SFO should be available to all children, and municipalities are required to provide a school leave scheme up to and including the 7th stage for children with special needs. The Norwegian Association of Devolved Persons pointed out in its consultation exercise the injustice of imposing additional costs on families with children with disabilities in order to obtain an offer from other children. The centre party believes that changes to the scheme should be considered during the work of the Training Law Committee. The cancellation message we get for the autumn is already comprehensive enough. And as Redd Barna recorded to the committee, of course, the Center Party also believes that the children and families have to be heard in the preparation of the offer. No offers and orders shall be made without any need and interest in doing so. In short, I would like to address the proposals that the Central Party has on its own, and the proposal that the Central Party shares with the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e2199	The representative Marit Knutsdatter Strand has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e2204	The size has been defined as a target for SFO to be available to all children. This case concerns children with special needs and the SFO primarily after the fourth class. My first meeting with this case was when six mothers in Stavanger started an action group against what they thought was unfair treatment. It was led by a mother named Gunn Kathrin Sjursetter, who is the mother of Hedvig who has Down syndrome. They took up this matter and took the fight for the 48 children in Stavanger who are under this scheme. Fortunately, they got through, and that is a minimum cost for the small change that Stavanger Municipality has now made to care for these children. So this is a matter that has been discussed before, and I have to say that I am optimistic about the fact that this matter will also get a good end, especially now that the Christian People's Party has entered the government. The decision, 906, was taken in connection with the treatment of Innst. 377 S for 2017-2018, where a requested government submits a call for proposals and follows up and, in particular, clears up the uncertainty and discrimination in this legislation. As the rapporteur said, we expect the Council of State to follow up on this in the notification, but also the Minister for Children and Family Affairs to follow this up. The working party seems to be wrong to unilaterally add the increased costs of this offer to parents who have children with special needs. The welfare Member State shall operate in such a way that a provider is able to do so and obtain as necessary. Clearly, here are parents with children who have a need. Then they don't have to have an increased cost. It is a challenge that this legislation is interpreted so differently in different municipalities. Some people experience getting an offer that is a mere continuation of the SFO offer. Some municipalities see this in the context of health and therefore make it a relief offer, which is then free of charge, and some municipalities have an offer in addition to the 7th grade and some do not. The Labour Party is quite clear that it is the municipalities that are responsible and have to regulate this, but the government also has a responsibility to ensure that there is good content, which exists throughout the country, and that there is good quality and competence, which the case-rapporteur was also involved in. It is unfortunate that there are differences between municipalities around the country, and we are looking forward to the government following up the decision that the Stortinget has made here.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e2219	SV believes that an inclusive common school is about creating a comprehensive school day that ensures the ability of all children to learn, succeed and thrive on the basis of their assumptions and needs. In this context, the SFO shall be available to all children. It shall strengthen the social development of children and, together with the school, contribute to the overall and coherent development of children. After the fourth year, most students do not have an offer of school leave because students have grown to such an extent that they are able to take care of themselves after school. However, students with disabilities may need post-school supervision even after the fourth year of age. A good provision of care and supervision in connection with school day and in close proximity to school is a prerequisite for many parents with disabled children to be able to work. For some disabled children and young people, the need for an SFO offer will continue throughout basic training. SV believes that children with special needs should be guaranteed an equivalent level of care and supervision in relation to the school day, and that neither the content of the offer, the size nor the expenses of the parents should depend on the municipality in which the family lives. Children with special needs need to be guaranteed an equivalent provision of care and supervision in relation to everyday school life. Those who go to the SFO after the fourth year of age are mostly disabled children only. When a parent payment is required for the SFO offer after the fourth step, parents of disabled children are charged a cost to their parents for other children. Therefore, SV agrees with the Norwegian Association for Devolved People when, in their consultation call, they believe that this school leisure provision should be free of charge. The proportion of children involved is very low. This is approximately nationally. 1 pst. of all children attending the SFO and the economic consequences for each municipality will be minimal. By introducing payment waivers after the fourth year and extending the right to a school leisure-like offer also in secondary and secondary education, it is reasonable to assume that the social benefits are greater by enabling mother/father to work. When there are so few children, it's a mystery to me that the bulk of the population can't be on these proposals. I am therefore addressing the proposals SV is behind in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e2234	The representative of Mona Fagerås has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e2239	The government works for equivalency for families who have children with special needs. We will ensure equal opportunities for personal development, participation and life for all. It is important that children and young people with disabilities or other specific needs also have good development conditions when in the SFO. Today's Training Act gives municipalities the opportunity to charge their parents for the SFO. If we are to ensure that parents of children with disabilities do not have to pay for the SFO from the fourth year of age, it will require a change in today's legislation. Proposal No. 1 will therefore have an economic impact and must then be assessed in the ordinary budgetary procedures. As regards proposal No: 2, it is a goal for the government to give its citizens a clear place in the health and care service. Those who take care of their closest shall be met by public services working with them, who guide and support them, and who provide relief where necessary. As of 1 October 2017, the municipality’s responsibility towards its relatives, who have a particularly burdensome care work, was combined and clarified in a new provision of the Health and Care Services Act. This new provision obliges the municipality to provide the necessary support to relatives, including: in the form of relief, training and guidance and care assistance. This provision clarifies the rights of the dependants. Relieving is an offer to people and families with particularly burdensome care. When assessing the relief measures in question, municipalities shall be central to the wishes and needs of their dependants. Municipalities have a great deal of freedom in setting up the relief offer, and it can be organised in different ways. Today’s legislation already allows a municipality to use SFO as a relief offer if it offers a decent offer to the child and is satisfactory for its relatives. As regards proposal No: 3, I also refer to Innst. 377 S for 2017–2018, on the relationship between the Education Act and the Health and Welfare Services Act as regards the SFO for the developmentally disabled from the 4th year to the secondary school. The Ministry of Health and Welfare and the Ministry of Knowledge are cooperating on the follow-up to this decision, and I will come back to the issue of early intervention and inclusive communities in the autumn. I think it is important to look at the follow-up to the SFO in the context of the development of kindergarten and school elsewhere, not least in the case of children and young people with special needs. Therefore, the government has decided that the follow-up to the national evaluation of the SFO will be part of the EIP and the inclusive community. The recommendations to the Training Law Committee also need to be considered and seen in the context of the implementation of the EEAS measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e2256	It is good to work on this, but there is a need to make some decisions that clearly say that you should meet the needs of these families. I notice that this Council of State also uses the term ‘equal’ when the Council of State should say equality. Policies towards people with disabilities shall be about equality. These are people and families who need to live the very same life as the rest of us. They do not have any special needs, because this is not a special need, for example. to go to school, to wear clothes, to eat or to have a leisure opportunity, etc. But someone needs a little more help to get it into, and some families need help to be able to live a normal life with their usual needs that everyone else has. Being able to have a safe offer for children with different disabilities even after school is such a necessary scheme that we must have in our society. I hear you say this should be seen in connection with your daughter and yours etc. To me, it sounds like speech, because this is a problem that we should agree that we need to find a solution. Equality for people with different types of disabilities and those families with these kinds of challenges has been discussed in another proposal earlier today. It was about an overall policy for these families, so that they could not meet their particular needs, but that they would have the opportunity to live a normal life like the rest of us. When we treat this as a question of equality, that's when it starts to cost money, and that's when you see the differences. Because it's not going well when you spend your money and the space for action you have, on those who are healthy and should be able to handle their own lives. There will be little left for those who need special arrangements to live a normal life, such as these families who need a safe offer that provides relief, but also an offer that contains the children and the young people concerned. It should have been a unanimous growth that went into order to secure this now.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e2265	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e2284	Yes, then I was so lucky that the president read out what I was going to say as my first post. Then I just repeat the very question: What does the Council of State intend to do to reduce stress and pressure that makes school students sick, and does the Council intend to address this serious problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e2289	I would first like to thank you for an important and good interpellation. Inclusion and participation in society are linked to good mental health and quality of life. Kindergartens, schools and workplaces are the main social arenas to facilitate inclusion and participation. We all need to be part of the community and to be seen, included and important to others. The school is obliged to have a systematic work to promote health, well-being and learning. A good learning environment is characterized by the fact that students are well at school, are challenged professionally and feel that they are developing and mastering. A good learning environment gives children and young people the sense of being worth something, that you do, that you belong, the opportunity to unfold without being afraid, get social support and be part of a community. However, a poor learning environment would involve risk factors for the development of good mental health. Research suggests that solitude and various mental disorders are increasing among young people and society in general. Among other things, the NOVA report Youth Data 2018 shows that the proportion of mental disorders reported in juveniles has increased in recent years. These are particularly typical symptoms of stress reported by young people. Another negative trend that is worth drawing from the same report is less future-optimism and lower school well-being. The causes of this development are complex, and research does not provide a clear answer to why we see this increase in mental distress. But it's not a sleeping cushion that we don't know exactly why. We must take this seriously and act. The school has a very important role and has great opportunities to provide a basis for good mental health by providing a good learning environment for students. In 2017, the Ministry of Knowledge ordered a systematic knowledge overview of reasons for school stress from the Knowledge Centre for Education. Stress in school is, according to the knowledge overview, a perceived imbalance between demands and expectations on the one hand and support from the school on the other. This knowledge overview provides four concrete advice on what the school can do to combat stress: provide engaging education have a good learning environment have a uniform working load; avoiding the development of ‘stress culture’ at school; This can be a good clue for the schools at work for less stress at school. The young are the future, and we have to make sure to make things right for them. The government has put this on the agenda through several initiatives and has a number of measures to better equip young people to master life and the future. The issue of mental health directly intervenes in some of the core areas of school, such as school performance, non-response and bullying. Therefore, interventions that are not directly concerned with mental health are also of major relevance in the work. Let me mention something: Good mental health needs to be promoted through good education and class management. School time is mainly teaching time – meetings between subjects, students and teachers. We have therefore focused on further increasing the competence of teachers in class management. In addition, we have just sent proposals for new curricula to be consulted, which we believe will contribute to more learning and more relevant and committed training. For example, there is a more practical and surprising approach and an active student role. A legislative change has also been made that gives the school an obligation to cooperate with relevant municipal services on the assessment and follow-up of pupils with personal, social and emotional difficulties related to training. The aim is to improve coordination and interaction for the best interests of the child by the various bodies that can and should help children who are struggling. The Ministry of Knowledge has also established committed cooperation with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality and the Ministry of Health and Welfare on vulnerable children and young people under 24 years of age. 0–24 cooperation shall identify common challenges and promote joint actions and strategies for better follow-up of vulnerable children and young people. The overall objective of cooperation is that fewer falls outside the scope of further secondary education and entry into work. Through the 0-24 collaboration, we focus on the whole human being. The lives of young people are not divided into sectors and levels of administration. They must meet with an overall effort from the auxiliary equipment. In August 2017, the government presented a strategy for mental health, Master all his life. The strategy was a pre-work for a comprehensive and obligatory escalation plan for children and young people’s mental health. This escalation plan will be presented during the spring. In the escalation plan, we focus, among other things, on: on the early efforts necessary when concerns arise for a child, for a youth or for the family. The kindergarten and school skills to see and act early, and how we can help more young people into education and work, are among the areas we need to shed light on. The representative of Fagerås raises an important question and the school will help to equip children and young people for their own and common future. However, stress and pressure also come from other parts of society. Among other things, there has just been a debate in the media about role models from social media and the impact of bloggers or influences on youth. I think we should want a debate on how we, parents, school and others can contribute to a safer, smoother and more inclusive environment both at school and where young people live. We must not forget that the vast majority of Norwegian youth are well adapted and prosperous – it also shows the study Youth Data 2018. Our efforts must help to increase the assistance and support needed. We must also remember that the years of youth are alarmingly years too many. That's normal. Psychiatric disorders are also normal. Therefore, it should also be normal for the school to care for those who need it and to do what is necessary to improve the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e2338	I would first like to complain that I was a little young with regard to the form of interpellation debate. So a young cut is what the loofot fisherman is when he controls his first season. That's my first interpellation, this. We got a lot of nice words from the Minister of Knowledge, but the evaluation of the Knowledge promise shows that the school has become for the theory and the education for the one-sided. When students, parents and teachers experience that the school’s knowledge view has become too narrow, when teachers and researchers warn of an increasing number of young people with stress-related diseases due to performance requirements and testing in school, we need to have a different device, a more practical and varied school day, which can alleviate these symptoms. I wonder what the Council of State sees fit that the subject renewal should do for exactly these students, who experience these symptoms. Further, the Ludvigsen Committee went a long way in suggesting that the school had to be renewed – far beyond simply renewing the curriculum, which unfortunately is the Minister of Knowledge's response to most of the challenges we have in school. Furthermore, curriculum research shows that new curricula alone do not create a change in school practice. SV, like Ludvigsen, wants a review not only of the curricula, but also of the professional and hourly distribution in school, and not least the examination and assessment system – the last with a mandate that could create real changes, as opposed to the very, very limited mandate that the Council of State has now given to the group he eventually set up. On the right was both a review of the professional and hourly distribution and the examination and assessment system. What does the Council of State mean now, after having received reports from the Red Cross and research results from OsloMet: Is there any further action that needs to be taken to overcome the unhealthy performance pressure and a test and test culture that makes Norwegian students sick?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e2349	I started by giving the representative Fagerås credit for travelling an important theme, but I record that the representative jumps quickly in the SV trap and goes straight into it, in what is described as pressure and test culture in the school. Let me just remind you that after the introduction of the Knowledge Promise, there are several students who complete and pass high school. Norwegian school is on the right track. We see that more students complete. There's more. The students are more at school. The results go up, and the bullying goes down. So it goes in the right direction. I also completely disagree that we should abandon the necessary screening tests at an early stage. I have never met a youth who said: I was discovered too early. I have never met a youth who has said: I got too much early effort. We must meet the students and the children at an early stage and ensure that they receive the necessary support and help. Professional renewal is one important measure, but far from the only one. It is precisely through early efforts, commitment to cooperation between kindergartens, schools and SFOs, ensuring good transitions, building a team around the students, ensuring that teachers and both adults working in kindergartens and adults working with young people have the necessary skills. This is why we also carry out historical responsibilities both in kindergarten and in school. Professional renewal will give the teacher more room to be a teacher and give the students more space to go deep. We're doing more learning through play at the lowest stages. We put greater emphasis on the practical and exploratory side of many subjects. In particular, we introduce several cross-cutting themes, such as: Lifelong learning and public health, which make these themes enter the school. I have good faith that the combination of new curricula and, not least, more competence of teachers will also contribute to the right direction. Then we must not forget that it is not just the teacher and the school that have a responsibility. We as parents have a responsibility. Everyone who is around children and youth has a responsibility to make sure that more masters, and that more people thrive at school, and not least complete and pass through high school, so that you get a good foundation for adult life as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e2364	The central part shares the interpellant’s concern that health problems among young people can be largely linked to school. Tests, pressures and stress in young people are being found in more and more young students. That is why the Central Party has addressed this issue a number of times, and I asked the Council of State as late as January in the light of the alarming results of the Young Data Survey. The findings of the researchers at NOVA and OsloMet have, when they have looked at the relationship between mental distress, school pressure, body shape and social media, are not unique and must be taken seriously. Although the causes of mental health disorders are complex, several studies now show that there is a strong link between mental health disorders, stress and the demands and pressures in schools — as the centre party has pointed out for a long time. The room for mastering and motivation is being displaced by national tests and PISA, because these are the achievements of which the government is most concerned. The councils and I probably read the Youth Data Survey differently. The centre will point out that this year’s Youth Data Survey shows a trend towards lower school well-being and an increase in mental health disorders. The students express that the sum of samples leads to increased pressure beyond what is naturally expected from a trial situation. Seven out of ten asked students experience schoolwork as stressful. Students feel powerless when the test press becomes too big, and state that it becomes difficult to perform and show what they really can. The NOVA study supports these findings. The Health Minister answered me in a question time that stress has several sides. Positive stress may be necessary to focus and achieve good results. At the same time, long-term stress can have major consequences and needs to be addressed. All pupils shall have the opportunity to experience mastering and safety, and the responsibility for doing so shall be left to the government at school. What about the framework for municipalities, schools and teachers working in, when national tests become part of the lower limit of school quality and other national quality assessment systems? What about learning-promoting tests in preference to control tests? And how does the Council of State think schools should be able to give priority to practice, mastering and motivation when this is hardly to be found in the quality assessment? The Centre Party considers it essential that both the organisation of everyday school life, the form of work and the renewal of content and forms of assessment should respect the degree of maturity, physiological development and assumptions of the students. Municipalities and teachers need to have room for action and confidence to adapt their teaching to each individual student. The right had just a national meeting and adopted a formulation to monitor children’s language development before school starts. How does it help children to mature, grow, and play? And how does this contribute to the evaluation of the 6-year reform to ensure a good transition and a good start to school for the smallest? The centre party does not want a school where students are measured according to narrow performance targets that define education, but that the work for increased quality should ensure the breadth of the school’s social mandate — including the mental health of students. The centre party will have a school adapted to the students – not students adapted to the school. Personally, I don't think the students are going to master PISA – they're going to master life.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e2387	At the Central Party national meeting, many people put the spotlight on mental health, perhaps especially among young people. One of the young girls who attended the national meeting came from Northern Ireland, and I want to share Marthe-Amalie Dahle's contributions with you. Marthe-Amalie goes to the third year of study specialization, and she said: It's great to come here at the country meeting, especially after the school week I've had. On Tuesday, I started with a presentation in peace and security policy, and then ended the day with a two-time test in history about the cold war. Luckily, after three years of written exams, homework, trades, oral hearings and exams, I am approaching the end of the school cycle. After three years of constant testing and checking, I can soon lower my shoulders and realize that all the syllabus is forgotten, and that I am standing on my own legs – without knowing anything about how to pay off a loan or pay bills. Instead of constructive feedback on how I can improve as a student or develop as a human being, I have most of the time the stress to chew the literature periods on the frame, just to forget them the second the evaluation has been made. The teachers tell me that I must not spend all my time at school, but set aside time for leisure, friends and school breaks. But how can students take a break when the next assessment waits as soon as the previous one is finished? In Norway, today’s use of tests leads to stress-related problems among students, and not least less motivation for learning. This leads to more drops out of school. At the University in 2019, the head of the Student Organisation said that there are no weak students, but a weak school system. I fully agree with that. The school shall be adapted to the pupils — the pupils shall not be adapted to the school. Today's stand, there's too much testing and too little focus on the development of each student. Instead, the focus is too strong on target management, which can lead to further centralisation when comparing results in schools. This requires a change in school organisation, and not least an increase in trust — teachers must be allowed to adapt their teaching to each individual student, thereby increasing quality, and more students will experience mastery and joy. That is why the project of the Central Party with the reform of trust is so incredibly important, including for us young people. This was said by Marthe-Amalie, and research shows that the educational value of national samples is almost absent, while the cost to students of increasing stress and pressure is worrying and increasing. That's why it's alarming that the government wants to put on more of the same stuff right away. Several tests and the publication of results at school level are a destructive combination that works against its purpose. A disproportionate amount of time is spent on control at the expense of education. This is a paradox when all research shows that the best learning takes place when students receive constructive feedback that gives direction for further work, rather than measuring learned knowledge. I hope the council remembers Marthe-Amalie's words and takes them with them in their work. Let the young experience more mastering and less testing.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e2400	The President would point out that Mr Marthe-Amalie's contribution was enough to grips with the Central Party's national meeting, but refers to Section 55 of the Rules of Procedure, which states: ‘ Citations should only be used to a limited extent. The post shall be made clear at the beginning and at the end of the quotation, and the speaker shall indicate the origin of the quotation.’;» I ask that the representative Mossleth comply with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e2410	This is an important theme and an important inter-pelling debate. It's a little polite for someone my age to hear about stress in school. The word “stress” was not invented when I was 14–15–17 years old and sometimes was a little tired and sometimes down, we were told clearly that it was part of growing up, and that it was completely natural. So first I'd like to say that I'm glad that the Council of State has also made it clear that we need to be careful about hanging around with the diagnosis of completely normal challenges that all children and young people are growing up with. It was Marit Knutsdatter Strand who made me take the floor. She said that she would not have ‘school-adapted pupils’, but ‘a school adapted to the pupils’. This was a kind of attack on the Granavolden platform and on the state council, which said we should have language testing a little earlier than at school, i.e. at the age of four or at the age of three. My view is that it is very reasonable to have a language test and a survey of children aged 3 to 4 – that they have a sound and good development in learning the Norwegian language, so that it is possible to apply relief measures to children who are in a life situation where there is no possibility that they can learn Norwegian properly before they begin school. It must actually be a kind of offense if you come to school with children in their 6-year-olds born in Norway, and they almost cannot be Norwegian. It's a hopeless situation for young children. This is not a problem in most parts of Norway, but it is used in Oslo. 250 million. kr for specific decisions and Norwegian training for children with migrant parents. Then it must be much better to move that money and the resources and use them when the children are between 3 and 4 and 5 years old, to ensure that when they start school they are able to follow the regular education properly. Of course, in order to make targeted use of these resources and resources, it is necessary to identify the children who have a life situation that makes it unlikely that they can be properly Norwegian when they start school. I am very pleased that this has entered the Granavolden platform. It was a decision in Oslo City Council to implement this before the previous municipal elections, and a scheme was under way to identify the children who did not have a life situation where they could be expected to be Norwegian when they started school, so that, in cooperation with their parents, they could put in place the necessary measures and give the necessary advice on how their parents might need to change the situation a little. These are some of them, for example: encouraging their children to watch children’s television from their country of origin and to read in the language of their country of origin instead of seeing Norwegian children’s television, reading Norwegian children’s books and singing Norwegian children’s songs – that is, making a statement for the sake of children. That's what's important. There is no need for parents to take into account the importance of all children born in our country, who are expected to be good Norwegian citizens, to have a situation where they can Norwegian before they start school, and not the disadvantage it is for these children if they are not able to follow the ordinary course of training. Unfortunately, this thing that we were doing in Oslo was stopped by the Red-Green City Council, which continues to close the eyes of the enormously negative development there are too many children if they start school without being able to Norwegian, and must use the time they should have spent on other ordinary subjects, to have special Norwegian education. I think that much more, especially those on the left, should be concerned about measures, so that every child born and going to be in Norway can be Norwegian when they start school. It's the best start in life that we can give them, and that's why I ask the representatives of the red-green parties to think about once again what they want to do to make sure that every child can Norwegian when they start school.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e2423	The centre party is, of course, fully behind the fact that it is the school that should be adapted to the individual student, and not the students who are going to adapt to a compliant school. In accordance with school, we mean a school that conducts far too much general testing and testing of children in terms of both performance and in-flight skills, from a very young age. It leads to a more compliant school. It was probably both advantages and disadvantages with the school in the past, but I have to say that I think it was a school that gave room to those who had practical skills, who gave room for a little bit less theory, and who gave room for a little less testing and placement of groups of students in different categories. That's what we mean when we talk about having to get a more diverse school, where the school adapts to the students and the students don't necessarily have to adapt to a consistent school. Starting to test kids early, at a very young age, even in kindergarten, is totally unnecessary. This does not mean that one should not be training or that one should not teach young people anything in terms of language development and language skills, as a matter of course one should do so. It also does today's kindergartens, and so does one early in school. But starting to test kids on a general basis, the Center Party is critical to. So the representative Hagen relates this very much to the children of immigrants. But the test he's talking about here is not related to a single group, it's related to the whole foundation of a child, where one then should start with the kind of testing. It seems that the centre party is unnecessary, and we also think it is unfortunate. We believe that getting a kindergarten that contributes to good language development, good language training, but then through the game that is also going to be dominant in the Norwegian kindergarten, is a much better way to go, and I think that one has largely got it confirmed through, among other things. the conference which has been held in the last few days, which has just dealt with the Nordic kindergarten system, The Nordic Way, and the quality of the Norwegian kindergarten.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e2439	I thought the SV case was something quite different than what the Minister of Knowledge insinuated in his post, and I think that exactly there is something the co-operation partners of the Government Party Right are thinking about in these days. I can assure the knowledge minister that my commitment to all students in Norwegian school will continue. My concern is about the direction Norwegian school is going in. I want to go so far as to say that the Right-Fall is that pugging, testing, goals and governance are the answer to all the challenges facing Norwegian school. The fact that the Council of State does not take these signals seriously is alarming. It's in known Right-style – now everything's going so much better. I understand that the Council of State from the Right does not want to listen to SV, but could he have sat down and listened to the Secretary-General of the Red Cross, then? In the rest of my post, I will reproduce Bernt Apeland, who is the Secretary-General of the Red Cross of Norway: Norwegian school students are so stressed that they face mental challenges. The young people themselves say that it is the school that causes them to become stressed or toiled mentally. When 35,000 children and young people contacted Red Cross last year, suicidal thoughts were the theme that was most often put on the field. The UN Children's Convention is 30 years old this year. It states that all children have the right to an education that develops their personality, talent and abilities, as far as possible. Norwegian school is at the top of the world. Norwegian students perform better than students in other countries it is natural to compare us with. But has Norway complied with the Children’s Convention when school results go up, but downwards with mental health? In the Red Cross, we don't have much experience working with school, but we have more than 150 years of experience with humanitarian needs. We see that children and young people’s health problems in Norway are developing into a humanitarian problem. A humanitarian problem – we as a society must get to the bottom of this. I hope the Minister of Knowledge takes seriously the Secretary-General of the Red Cross.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e2452	We're going to take the kids seriously, and we're going to listen to what they're saying, both through the student survey, the Young Data Study, and not least in all the conversations we're having. Obviously, there are some challenges that make us work even more systematically to help all children thrive at school, have a good time at school, master at school, because we know that children who thrive also learn better. The representative, Marit Arnstad, referred to the Nordic Children's Hospital Conference. I had the pleasure of opening it today. We have every reason to be proud of the Norwegian and Nordic kindergarten tradition. Over 40 countries are present at the conference. They look at the Nordic model and the way we build and help all children master, develop and get the best possible starting point for school, but also that children get to be children and have good room to play in kindergarten. The representative of Mona Fagerås says that she disagrees completely with the direction in which Norwegian school goes, and she believes that there will be more pugging and more testing. But Norwegian school is going in the right direction. The students learn more. They're more present. Several complete and pass. Then we have to make sure that we help those who fall outside, that they get early help, that they get professional and social support, so that the students, children and youth, thrive at school and masters. Reference is made to putting samples on. Well, look at what students spend on mandatory national tests and screening tests in 13 years, it's 15 hours. 15 hours in 13 years, SV is calling for tests to create stress and pressure for students. I believe that these tests are important because it helps both the teacher and those around the student to meet the challenges and make sure that students do not get hung up on, but get the help they need. It is quite obvious that many schools and many teachers need to coordinate the tests and homework in a better way, and there are a number of municipalities and schools that have taken care of by setting a standard for how many tests there should be, how much homework there should be, how this should be distributed, so that the students do not experience that it accumulates, but are distributed in a way that allows them to master everyday at school.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e2463	The debate on substance is closed. So 12 is going to be over. The President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. 13 to 15 is treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e2505	No one has asked to speak on the matter. 13–15.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e2517	The size is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e2526	In the course of the debate, three motions have been put forward, tabled by Mr Moxnes on behalf of Mr Red. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The size asks the Presidency to ensure that the main weight of the work is also in construction projects where the Storting is the builder and/or the tenant is to be carried out by permanent employees for at least 80 pst. position. Borrowed labour is not regarded as a permanent employee.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Presidency is asked to ensure that contracted workers count as part of the entrepreneurship chain.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Council asks the Presidency to require that the average calculation of working time be applied to the builder. Consent shall only be given if the employer covers travel expenses to/from the employee’s actual residence and provides food and shelter.» The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e2794	The President will also state that Adele Matheson Mestad is in the lodge, and she is congratulated as Director.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e2803	All in all, eleven proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, from Lise Christoffersen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 4, from Lise Christoffersen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party proposal No 5, from Per Olaf Lundtigen on behalf of the Centre Party the proposals No 6-8 and 10-12, from Solfrid Lerbreck on behalf of the Socialist Left Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 12, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government asks the Government to propose that the House Bank's schemes for grants and loans for the adaptation of housing for families with high needs of care be strengthened to a greater extent than at present, both in terms of the amount of grants and loans and the conditions for the repayment of the loans.» The Labour Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e2837	President! I voted against, I had to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e2842	The Socialist Left Party proposal was then rejected by 62 votes to 35. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6-8 and 10 and 11, of the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to submit proposals on the statutory right to family vicars for families with special care challenges, such as singles with twins, vibration families, families with children with severe illness or disabilities, or families where there is a serious illness in their parents’.» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to draw up arrangements to ensure that families who have a disabled child receive rapid and effective help, including financial support to adapt their housing to their new life situation.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose the inclusion of the rights of user-led personal assistant in public security and such rights-based BPA as an aid.’ [[BPA]] Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a regulatory support for the right to user-driven personal assistance.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to submit proposals to incorporate the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities into the Human Rights Act in order to give the Convention primacy in Norwegian law.’ [[CRPD]] The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e2884	There is a vote on proposal No. Five from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to propose a statutory obligation for municipalities to provide family victories to families with special needs for assistance in emergency and special situations.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e2903	There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government asks the Government to propose that the House Bank's schemes for grants and loans for the adaptation of housing for families with high needs of care should be more adapted than at present to the financial situation of the family, both in terms of the amount of grants and loans and in terms of the conditions for repayment of the loans.» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e2929	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and the proposals No. 1-3 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to carry out a comprehensive review of the arrangements for parents of sick children and children with special needs, with the aim of simplifying and strengthening the rights of families with children, including the development of the family week scheme for young children’s parents in particular in need of assistance in emergency and special situations.’;» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to start the announced investigation work as soon as possible in order to improve the situation around BPA while ensuring the participation of disabled people’s organisations in the investigation team/committee.’ Proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox ‘The government is asked to provide an action plan for an accessible Norway in 2025 and a universally designed society by 2035, including a concrete funding plan.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e2962	During the debate, two proposals were put forward by Mr Grande on behalf of the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to propose amendments to the Working Environment Act which ensure the purpose of the Act in terms of safe working conditions by: – clarify the concept of employers in the Working Environment Act, – clarify the general rule on fixed and direct working conditions in Norwegian working life, – ensure that the person with management rights also has responsibilities for employers, – strengthen staff participation in their own activities, – prevent employers from organising their employer’s responsibilities by dividing them into sub-companies which are not self-employed.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government requests the setting up of a Joint Committee to examine the implications of the decision in the Norwegian case for workers’ rights. The committee shall propose legislative changes to ensure the balance between the social partners by ensuring that the responsibilities of employers are always the responsibility of the activities of employees in a relationship of dependence and sub-ordination, including management carried out through parent companies and corporate structures. The purpose of this is to ensure the protection of workers by the fact that the person exercising the right of management and enjoying all the benefits of working conditions is not able to organise himself away from his responsibilities as an employer. The investigation shall not be reserved for aviation but cover the entire working life.» Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up. The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e3013	President! I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e3018	The Committee's opinion was then adopted by 51 votes to 47.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e3027	All in all, seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-5, from Per Olaf Lundtigen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 6 and 7, from Lise Christoffersen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1–5, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the Guarantee Facility is made an independent liability entity in the Alpha cases so that the dispute resolution is established in Norway.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that all victims – who are and are affected by the Alpha bankruptcy – are covered by the Professional Indemnity Insurance Act, regardless of whether the insurance is taken out directly from Denmark. [[cross-border activity]] Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to come back with proposals to amend the Act on Occupational Indemnity Insurance in order to ensure that victims are covered by bankruptcy in an insurance company.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to come back with proposals to amend financial company law so that compulsory membership of the Insurance Guarantee Scheme is also sold cross-border from EEA countries to cover insured persons’ risks in Norway.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking for an investigation into the rules of professional injury so that they are proportionate to the developments in society that have taken place in the last 30 years.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e3083	Alternatively, between the setting and the proposals No. 6 and 7 from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is requesting a review of current practices and proposing the necessary changes to ensure equal rights for non-resident workers in Norway in the event of occupational injury to Norwegian workers.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that the Labour Inspectorate and the police have sufficient competence and resources to check that the pay, employment, insurance and housing conditions of foreign workers are in accordance with Norwegian regulations and standards, so that illegal conditions can be detected before serious accidents occur, and that the accidents actually occur are properly monitored and investigated.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals. The centre party has announced subsidized support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e3111	In the course of the debate, a total of five proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Mari Holm Lønseth on behalf of Right, Advance Party and Christian People's Party the proposals No 2-4, from Siri Gåsemyr Staalese on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 5, by Willfred Nordlund on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to carry out an overall review of the municipal pre-emption law for tenure farms and to assess whether there is a need for revision of all or part of the law.’ The Labour Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e3140	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2–4, from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: «The Government asks the Government to propose to amend the Law of 29 April 1977 on municipal pre-purchase rights for leased properties § 6 so that decisions on the pre-purchase rights of the municipalities must be taken within six to eight months of the notification of the municipality under the first paragraph of Section 5 or the second paragraph of Section 10.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to ensure that the House Bank is given the opportunity to provide a guarantee or a loan for the entire purchase price when tenants want to use their legal right to pre-purchase for tenancy.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to ensure that residents are given the opportunity to purchase the tenancy even when the tenancy is involved in a major transaction, for example as part of a property company and not just the tenancy itself.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e3176	Alternatively, between the setting and proposal No. 1, from the Right, the Advance Party, and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 8:55 S [[2018–2019]] The setting is supported by the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e3197	Four proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Siri Gåsemyr Staalese on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 3, from Willfred Nordlund on behalf of the Centre Party proposal No 4, from Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide in the regulation that the price waiver for the use of the right to purchase under this law is to be set at 20 pst. of the market value.’» Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e3226	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The seventh paragraph of Section 24 of the Ownership Act is replaced by the following: Short-term rental of the entire housing section for more than 60 days per year is not permitted. Short-term rental means a continuous rental of up to 30 days. The 60-day limit may be waived in the statutes, in which case it may be set at between 60 and 90 days. Such a decision requires a majority of at least two thirds of the votes cast at the annual meeting. The first to fourth sentences shall not apply to joint ventures where all units of use are used as recreational dwellings.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The second paragraph of Section 25 of the Ownership Act, the second, third and fourth sentences, are replaced by the following: The use of the utility unit must not be modified without the consent of the management board in such a way that it would require a change of common installations or of other common areas if the use of all use units changed in the same way. The statutes may provide that housing sections cannot be reconstructed or otherwise physically arranged for the rental of more than two households within one unit of use without the consent of the board. Consent according to the second sentence may be refused only if there is a risk that such rental could be a significant disadvantage to other residents or lead to a significant deterioration of the living environment’. The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e3255	There is a vote on proposal No. Three from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The seventh paragraph of Section 24 of the Ownership Act is replaced by the following: Short-term rental of the entire housing section for more than 60 days per year is not permitted. Short-term rental refers to a continuous rental of up to 14 days. The 60-day limit may be waived in the statutes, in which case it may be set at between 60 and 90 days. Such a decision requires a majority of at least two thirds of the votes cast at the annual meeting. The first to fourth sentences shall not apply to joint ventures where all units of use are used as recreational dwellings.’ Red has announced subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e3489	It is first voted on A I new § 63 a. The central party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e3505	President! I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e3511	At that time the Committee's position was approved by 80 to 11 votes. It goes over the rest of A.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e3523	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e3535	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget. Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e3549	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e3590	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e3600	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e3644	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e3654	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e3663	During the debate, Terje Aasland put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to draw up a big message on how Norway can ensure national ownership of strategically important enterprises, infrastructure and technologies.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e3693	In the course of the debate, a total of five proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Marit Knutsdatter Strand on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 2 and 3, from Marit Knutsdatter Strand on behalf of the Center Party the proposals No 4 and 5, from Mona Fagerås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4 and 5 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up national guidelines on the recognition of the SFO offer for children with special needs as a relief offer with the rights set out in the Health and Care Services Act, if their parents so wish.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking, in the context of the notified call for early and inclusive community action, for proposals on how to ensure a SFO-like offer for pupils with special needs in upper secondary and secondary school.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e3729	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Center Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to assess, in the context of the follow-up to the work of the Training Law Committee, how pupils with special needs can be provided with a satisfactory and age-adjusted post-school offer in upper secondary and secondary education. Children and young people with special needs need to be heard in this process.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: «The government is asked by the government to ensure that additional expenditure resulting from an extended compulsory school leave scheme for pupils with disabilities is compensated through the income system.» The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals. The Socialist Left has announced support for proposal No. 3 and subsidiary support for proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e3755	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to promote the necessary legislative proposals to ensure that parents of children with disabilities do not have to pay for school leave after the fourth year’s age.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e3779	The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e3791	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e3800	Case No. 13–15 are the second time legal proceedings and refer to Acts 44, 45 and 46. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-26.ana.ud568e3884	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
