ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e117	The representatives of Ingarill Olsen, Kjersti Toppe, Eirik Sivertsen, Une Bastholm and Ulf Leirstein, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The called alternate of the West Agder County, Per Sverre Kvinlaug, now takes the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e148	From the Prime Minister's office there is the following letter to Stortinget, dated 29 March 2019: ‘Change in the composition of the Government and change among the State Secretaries State Council was held at Oslo Castle on 29 March 2019 at 9.30 p.m. 1100 under the direction of His Royal Highness The Crown Prince's Regent. The following decision was adopted: Government councilor Mikkel Wara is pardoned. Partner Jøran André Smedal Kallmyr is appointed State Council and takes over the administration of justice and immigration matters in the Ministry of Justice and Defence. State Secretary Thor Kleppen Sättem is pardoned as Secretary of State for the Government of Tor Mikkel Wara and is re-appointed State Secretary for the Council of State Jøran André Smedal Kallmyr in the Ministry of Justice and Defence. State Secretary Torkel Åmland is pardoned as State Secretary to the State Council Tor Mikkel Wara and is re-appointed State Secretary to the State Council Jøran André Smedal Kallmyr in the Ministry of Justice and Defence. All the amendments made above shall take effect on 29 March at the latest. 1330.’» The referenced letter shall be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16:00. At the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy, the President will propose that the matter be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy. 1 and 2 are treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e196	At the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes, and that speaking time be allocated as follows: the Working Party 25 minutes, the Right 25 minutes, the Progress Party 15 minutes, the Centre 10 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, the Left 5 minutes, the Christian People's Party 5 minutes, the Green Party 5 minutes and the Red 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be up to seven lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e205	I want to start by thanking the Committee for a good and thorough work on these two issues. We have dealt with the distributions – and I would like to add – of the very good statements by the Foreign Minister and the Minister for Defence, and we have addressed the representative proposal from Red, which largely addresses many of the same questions, but with some additional points. These are very important things. There are demanding questions when Norway decides to participate in international operations — yes, when Norway decides whether we should participate in war. That is why there is an important debate on how we can best ensure proper decisions, and on how our processes with maximum openness guarantee quality and hence legitimacy for the decisions being taken. There is a clear division of responsibilities between accumulation and government linked to Norwegian participation in international operations. A clear multiple thinks it's right that that division of responsibilities is fixed. It is the government that is the executive, which determines any Norwegian participation in international operations. No decision is required from the Storing page. The majority also believe it is important that a real consultation be conducted with the Stortinget, but the same plurality at the same time underlines that it does not take full responsibility from the government for the decision. However, I would like to stress the positive and long practice of different governments to ensure that a decisive emphasis on broad support is placed on key foreign and security policy issues. It was the decision of the Stortinget on 18 April 2017 that invited the government to take the initiative to carry out an evaluation in its own form of the Norwegian military and civil participation in the Libyan operation in 2011. The Committee believes that a very thorough and good job has been done in the preparation of the report – Evaluation of Norwegian participation in the Libyan operations in 2011. It's a very good and useful report the Petersen committee has delivered. The Petersen report provides a thorough review of decision-making processes and a holistic evaluation of Norwegian participation in Libya operations in 2011. The report provides important guidance and experience for future Norwegian contributions. The report contributes to a better and more informed public debate on Norwegian foreign and security policy. It is correct and important that operations of the same type as the Libya operations are evaluated and reviewed. This could lead to improvements for future operations of this type and increase confidence in the population. Although the decision on Norwegian participation in Libya operations in 2011 was taken in a very short time, consultations were conducted against Stortinget. In the subsequent public reactions, however, there was uncertainty as to whether the government had acted constructively correctly in relation to the Storting. One question in the public debate was whether the consultation was carried out in time. The Committee believes that a good consultation mechanism would provide greater confidence in the population of critical and important decisions about participation in international operations. At the same time, the Committee would stress that the selection concludes that the formal processes leading to the decision to participate with Norwegian forces met all the constitutional requirements, even though the government’s decision to participate was taken in a very short time. The Committee also points out that the selection clearly confirms that the Norwegian contribution for the strength complied with Norway’s humanitarian obligations. It is clear that the government assumed that the UN Security Council resolution was an adequate basis for international law for the use of military power in Libya. The Committee has noted that no written assessments were given to the government as to the framework of the Security Council Resolution for the use of military power. The Committee would point out that the lack of just written evidence makes the control task of the Storting difficult in retrospect and may lead to a lack of confidence in the decision-making base of the population. This will be an important debate. For my part, I will also take the word later. In the setting, there are different ratings, not least from the SV party, for which they will do well in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e226	Let me first acknowledge the work of the Petersen Committee. We have received a thorough review of the Norwegian military and civil contributions to the Libyan operation as well as the national decision-making processes underlying them. I also agree with the main conclusions of a broad majority in the position. As Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Government of Norway during the Libya operation, I had a special responsibility. As head of the Workers' Party, I wanted – and supported – to get a review of this operation. It should be the rule and not the exception that we go through military operations we've been involved in, to draw lessons from them. I read in some comments that responsible politicians have not learned from Libya. Defender Tormod Heier says in an interview to the Class Fight on March 28th: "As Jens Stoltenberg as Jonas Gahr Støre and Espen Barth Eide have said they would do the same again." It's a claim based on a basic misunderstanding that it's worth clarifying. What I've explained, in the spring of 2011, a number of times since and in my answers to the Petersen Committee, is: why we acted the way we did how we read the situation in 2011, as the conflict in Libya drew attention to the way in which we and large parts of the world society, including Libya's neighbours in Africa, considered that there was a possible acute threat of assault against civilians in Libya by a dictator's military forces the importance we attach to the various decisions of the UN Security Council until the decisive resolution, which authorized the use of all available means – read: military power to prevent abuses And I explained the experience our generation had from past situations where the world community did not act adequately, as in Srebrenica and Rwanda in the 1990s. I am in favour of what we, a collective government, have decided, with the support of an overall collapse. I believe Norwegian forces, mainly from the Air Force, carried out their mission in a good way and deserve our recognition. Then I recognize that Libya has been in a critically unstable situation after Gaddafi's fall, and that a number of critical questions can and should be asked about the follow-up of the international community after that. It's also important lessons to learn from how the operation was managed and coordinated. This is also done by the Committee in its report. I think it is important lessons that Norway brings with it when we participate in international debates, in NATO and in the UN, on how we manage international operations. The question if we would do the same thing again, doesn't make us wise, because March 2011 won't come back. It's been. But the experience we gained before, during and after the Libyan operation, we obviously draw with ourselves – the findings made by the Petersen Committee and the treatment here in Stortinget as well. The meaning of a review is, of course, to draw lessons that can make us better equipped to assess, manage and decide in a critical situation in the future. This shows the option. For the Workers' Party, decisions of the UN Security Council will always weigh heavily when considering our possible involvement. The basis of international law must be solid. When the Security Council asks the world community to take responsibility, Norway should always consider how we can contribute, because we are so dependent on a regulated world order where the United Nations plays a central role. I would warn those who say that Norway is about to refuse to participate in international operations on a principle basis. Norway has its NATO obligations. We place great emphasis on decisions in the UN Security Council. Our security depends in many respects on the willingness of other countries to engage in international operations to secure Norway and the north. As a result, Norway should be open for its part to take responsibility beyond our borders — once again, of course, on a safe basis of international law. We cannot and should not therefore provide a categorical response to where Norway should open up to engage its military forces. Of course, we have to weigh heavily what we need to ensure ongoing military preparedness for Norway’s security. It is increasingly happening here in Norway and in our neighbourhoods, in the light of the current security policy situation. When it comes to participating in international operations, we should carefully assess the areas in which we have capacities that are both relevant and available. This should be part of the ongoing debate on society, including here in the Stortinget. As for the views of the Workers' Party on the other parts of the adjustment, I leave them to other speakers from our party to refer to them.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e272	The evaluation report on Libya operations in 2011 has given us a thorough review of the decisions behind and the implementation of Norwegian participation in these operations. Subsequent evaluation reports often contain a higher dose of followed-up time. About this report I would say that it is very wise. It also contains a review and an assessment of the rules we have in our parliamentary system, which have interests far beyond the evaluation of the Libya action. In this sense, a contribution has been made to our constitutional literature of lasting value. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the rapporteur, Mr Hareide, for an open and good cooperation on the vote, and it is easy to join the presentation we have just heard. Within the limited time I have, I would like to highlight in particular two points: whether there was a basis of international law for the use of power, and how the Norwegian decision was taken and implemented. There is a clear functional distribution between collapse and government in the case of international operations. For the Right, we are committed to the fact that this division of functions must be firm – not in the interests of the government, but in the interests of effective parliamentary back-testing by the Stortinge. It is therefore quite clear that the system of consultation is an excellent ventilation of views that can be relied on and discouraged, but it is ultimately the government that has the parliamentary responsibility for the actions it is led into, and it is also one of the tasks that the Constitution adds to the executive authority. The government has a role to play, and you have to make sure, like in other cases, that the government has adhered to the Constitution. Now it is also part of the assessment – whether or not we have respected human rights with the additions we have to the constitutional review. In the course of war operations, it will also be part of the subsequent control of the Storting with the government to ensure that the Norwegian contribution has adhered to humanitarian law and the framework for the laws of the war. It is here that we are pleased to say that the review also shows that the Norwegian contribution has remained within the law of humanitarian law and the laws of war. So until what was also the subject of the previous speech – the formation of international justice. An international society that cannot enforce international law will become a paper tiger. For this reason, all countries that end up in international law also have an interest in the enforcement of the rules — if necessary with power. We are accustomed to that from our own democratic and parliamentary systems. For this reason, the ability of countries to enforce international law, otherwise it will become empty – in a cooperative and on a clear international basis, and it will go beyond the businessless civilians, who are dependent on international intervention to survive at all. That was also the situation assessment in 2011 – and that is quite correct. In the light of the tragedies in Srebrenica and Rwanda, the UN had also exercised considerable self-criticism, where the inaction of the international community was so accomplished and systematic that it began to approach passive participation. We cannot live with that if everyone who is a follower of international law is also more interested in enforcement and not just in the content of the resolutions. We also need to look at, as the report says, that the two UN Security Resolutions, as part of an escalation – I am aiming for the resolutions 1970 and 1973 of 2011 – provided a necessary, but also sufficient, international legal basis for the use of military power. The committee has also drawn our attention to the fact that, with regard to international participation and the relationship between the government, which is the leader of the defence of Norway, we operate on the basis of somewhat antique wording in the Constitution. It's not exactly obvious what you can read out after today's special arrangement, and here's a job to do. But it's beyond the evaluation of the Libya operation itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e293	Norway’s participation in the Libyan military operation in 2011 raises a number of fundamental, constitutional and moral issues. Various aspects of these issues are raised in the report of the Petersen Committee and later by statements by both the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Defence. With this as a backstop, there is a lot of will to find that the government is not taking these issues seriously. While the selection and presentations were full, clear and in principle, the comments submitted are a good example of the opposite. The story presented is long and detailed, but is primarily a masterpiece of disclaimer. The desire to continue in government was greater than the moral indignation. The truth is that a total increase joined Norway's war effort in Libya. Then we can talk later about premises, mandates, purposes, decision-making processes and consequences. But let's make it clear: we were all involved. We also know what conditions are like in Libya today. Despite an isolated and successful military operation, the war in Libya does not leave a country and people with renewed hope for the future. That in itself is a lesson that we should all take on. All parties agreed that Norway would contribute to the war in order to protect civilians. Whether this was a deposit from some of our allies, and that the goal was actually a regime change, it is not possible to get full clarity today. The Petersen Committee's report also concludes that the goal of the military operation was never a regime change. You can ask yourself the question of whether it is possible at all to bomb a country in order to secure civilians, but it was in any case a common hope we had. However, the issue becomes even more problematic when some today find it morally reprehensible that Norwegian bombing may have led to the loss of civil life. SV, in its observations, conducts a manifest form of double moralism. The Party supports bombing in order to protect civilians if it has broad international support and mandate from the UN but finds the war irresponsible and illegal when the war changes its objective. At the same time, SV must ask himself how the war in Libya could have ended with Gaddafi still at the rudder. One would like to discuss the pope's beard, but realistically it would be an impossibility if Gaddafi had continued to rule Libya, and no one seriously believes that Gaddafi had stepped aside from his own free will. SV's very long and comprehensive remark, I would assume, is due to the fact that the party has some idealistic notion of warfare. SV writes that they initially supported Norwegian participation, with clear reservations that the purpose was the protection of civil rather than regime change. Even pacifists should understand that military operations in war are becoming incomprehensible and that the elections you make may have unintentioned consequences. In the military theory, the inaccuracy of war is called the "fog of war". War operations are not a desktop practice or a chess tournament. Even if you're not initially working for a regime change, it could be the result of a military operation. The aim was, of course, to weaken the regime's capacity to attack civilians, thus giving the armed opposition a clear advantage. This eventually led to the fall of the regime and the death of Gaddafi. The government was responsible for the decision in 2011, but Stortinget was consulted in line with the Basic Law. At the same time, let's say that the government put the Workers' Party, the Center Party and SV. Apart from the fact that there should be parties in government other than that at the time, the future responsibility should also lie with the executive. It's strange to observe that parts of the opposition, as was then part of the government, seem to distance themselves from the decisions they themselves agreed to make. It may not be that a government is responsible only when it goes according to plan, but that it two hands if it does not go as you had imagined. Our soldiers must know that they have the government behind them at all times. They don't go to war on behalf of themselves, but on behalf of the state power. SV also points out in its comments that there was a lack of situational understanding before the decision to contribute militarily. I fully agree that good and defamatory information is necessary. But in a conflict situation, there will always be a lack of information. There will always be factors that play in, that you haven't thought of, and there will always be a danger that the situation will evolve in a completely different direction than you predicted. To think that you want a situation with enough information is to live in a dream world. It is important to learn from this and other military operations that Norway participates in. Experience gained through participation in foreign missions should provide a better basis for decision-making and strengthen the reflection on the impact of this type of effort both politically in Norway and in the area affected by the operation. At the same time, it is necessary to take time to assess the operations to be undertaken by Norway. As a NATO member, of course, Article 5 operations must involve Norwegian involvement. But it's not as obvious that we're going to participate in any UN-led operation. Norwegian resources are limited, and Norwegian influence is actually minimal in operations managed by major actors. Therefore, it should be assessed on a case-by-case basis whether it is in Norway’s interest to use resources on some types of UN mission. It must also be perfectly legitimate and, in fact, absolutely necessary to ask the question of whether Norwegian military action has led to something positive. It's one thing to win the war, but it's far more demanding to win the peace. And it must be legitimate to ask ourselves whether our allies at all times have the same motives for their participation in the war as we allegedly have. SV shows with its comments that the party has an opposite approach. The Party wishes to contribute to UN-led missions. However, the fight against the Taliban in Afghanistan did not want the party to join, despite the fact that it was enshrined in Article 5, which states that an attack on one is to be seen as an attack on all. In 2001, SV proposed that Norwegian forces should not be put at the disposal of military operations in Afghanistan under the command of the United States. The SV leader of Kristin Halvorsen, according to Dagbladet, stated in the big debate on the strength contribution to Afghanistan in 2001, that SV would support the participation of Norwegian military forces in a UN-led security and peace force. To the reprinted Thorbjørn Jagland: ‘I would like to ask whether SV has thought through what would be the consequences if SV’s view were also to become Norway’s official policy.’ He did not get an answer to the question. I am therefore repeating the question in some other form here: would SV have called upon the UN if one of the 29 member states of NATO had been attacked militarily or through state-supported terror? Any Norwegian participation in a military operation outside NATO must be assessed from different perspectives. However, a decision-making process on military participation cannot be seen as a seminar. There are several good reasons for this. In reality, it will be impossible for the government to give the Stortinget decision-making authority over Norwegian military participation. Such a decision will always be based on highly classified information – information received by allies in confidentiality, information which they will not be able to share with the Storting until, if necessary, at a later date. A debate based on up-to-date information will be meaningless. The fact that SV stands for such a view is not surprising, but that the centre party has taken the same position is alarming. Not only does the Central Party claim that the decision should be taken in Stortinget, but it must even be taken in the case of the release of the representatives. The Central Party will establish a war bomb in which each single representative of the Grand Duchy will vote as he or she sees fit. We can then, for example, have a decision in which the Stortinget, by 85 to 84 votes, decides that Norway should go to war. I would like to meet the general who had put his soldiers' lives at risk with such a lack of support and solidarity in his back.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e332	The decision that Norway should take part in war acts in Libya was based on decisions of the UN Security Council. It was an important premise that the red-green government recommended involvement in the action with our allies, and that a mass accumulation followed up with support for it. NATO soon took control of the Libyan action. The Petersen selection has done a thorough job. The report they provided is rich in content, gives a holistic picture, and answers a lot of difficult questions. The selection was made subject to: In order to settle about Norway's military forces, we complied with our obligations before humanitarian law. Norway represented a large proportion of bombings. It was the largest commitment from Norwegian defence since the Second World War, and it is very gratifying that the report concludes that the obligations have been met. It has been claimed that the NATO operation went beyond the limits given in the Security Council's mandate, but the selection has not found a hold point for such a claim. Furthermore, the report answers questions before international law and Constitution as appropriate. Here, the conclusions are that both process, decision and document were within current practice. It's safe. The fact that our solar data are trained and that they are able to do such a difficult job as this was also says a lot about the quality of Norwegian soldiers. Norwegian participation in war can and should not be an easy one, and the selection points out that it is necessary to revise Sections 25 and 26 of the Constitution. The centre party supports this. We showed you, among other things. In this context, we are proposing constitutions for participation in operations and acts of war in the future. The central party's proposal was that such matters should be debated and approved by the Stortinget in the form of a protocoled decision. Finally, I must say that we were in a team in Zagreb this weekend, at a meeting of the Standing Committee of the NATO Parliamentary Committee. There I am talking to several of the parliamentarians from our allies about precisely this process associated with decisions to participate in international operations. There are even quite large countries among our allies where there is a roll call for names, i.e. what we have on constitutions. There are those who have several decisions, and there are those who have debates without taking decisions. I would have found it very interesting to have gained a greater insight into how our allies make their decisions. It was with great interest that I listened to parliamentarians to talk about this issue. The doubt raised about the Libya action was in line with the Constitution shows that Sections 25 and 26 should be revised and thus get more comprehensive expression of the current law. It will create clearer and more prudent frameworks for the use of defence resources beyond Norway's borders. The Petersen Committee also believes that the Royal Resolution on participation in international operations should be made public in order to strengthen the confidence of the government in its decision-making basis. The Central Party believes that the Norwegian people are entitled to an open debate between political leaders when it comes to taking as serious decisions as sending Norwegian forces into war. A plenary deliberation will give decisions greater weight and stronger democratic anchoring, and other NATO allies have, as I have said, a much more open practice on this than we do in Norway. Unfortunately, the Central Party did not get any plurality for the proposal. After the Libya operations, it is important to take lessons with you. The selection has provided a good basis for this. When Norway is to participate in international operations, there should be a solid written basis for Norwegian participation in war before the decision is taken. The basis of decision could be far better than that. The great pressure of time meant that the anchoring in the Storting could be better. For the future, there should be no promise of participation in military operations without formal political anchoring in the Stortinget. This is among the most difficult, heaviest and most serious decisions a government can take, and there must never be any doubt that the handling of such matters is well anchored democratically, and that those who make the decision have all the information one needs to make the decision. The questions raised by Red in their Document 8 proposals have also been dealt with at the same time. They are largely already responding to the Libyan report, which the Ministry also notes in the letters of reply. The centre party therefore does not support the proposals from Red and refers to our comments in the Petersen Committee's report. Finally, Norway is a small country in the world – quite large enough geographically, but a relatively small people. In Stortinget we have been some of the major lines of foreign policy. It's important for a small country. But it cannot prevent open, democratic debate. What surprises me when we discuss these issues is how save the big parties are for openness. There is a great deal of the basis for decision in this matter that could have been public. It could also have been public at the time of the decision to draw. It is not always that there is a high-grade information underlying the decisions. It is also important that the Prime Minister and other leading politicians are honest in their communication to the people, that one says it as it is. I do not say that the Prime Minister in this matter did not do so, but there was doubt, among other things. in the media and among people, about what Norway was actually into, if we were just doing the first part of the action, or about the last part, taking out Gaddafi, was also part of the plan from the start. It should have been clarified before, and it should be a greater part of the basis of decision. But with that information that one had at the time, with the fact that one saw that this could end with a genocide in Libya, I'm going to give the representative Gahr Støre right. When you're in such a situation, it's very difficult to say that you don't want to help, and so there was also a bunch of stuff that said that Norway was going to participate in this operation. I'm very proud of Norway's defense. There's a reason for that. When one hears the feedback from other countries, from both parliamentarians and defence forces, it is very positive to the right, not least about the values of Norwegian soldiers, and the ability to make decisions in difficult situations, independent decisions. There's something that must also be cultivated in the future Defence, and that we people can be proud of and very confident about when we send our solar data on as difficult assignments as what they got when they were going to take part in the action in Libya.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e362	I would like to thank you for the presentations and for the comprehensive report of the sample. There were serious reasons for saying yes to Norwegian participation in Libya in the spring of 2011. The protests spread in the Middle East this winter – finally a hope of democracy, a hope that today has largely turned to hopelessness, war and oppression. Also in Libya people took to the streets, but the Libyan regime's response was violent and cash, and the UN reports showed systematic attacks on the civilian population. The threat of assault, which was described, was perceived as real and acute. So the 1973 Security Council Resolution was the first of its kind. Never before had the international community decided to use military power to protect civilians. This was behind Norway’s decision to participate — to protect the civilian population in Libya from what the UN warned against becoming a massacre, and to end up around the UN. The position of the SV and the Norwegian government was clear: it was not meant to be a war for regime change, but a no-fly zone to protect civilians. Any regime change would be the work of the Libyan people and not be created from the outside. The war evolved in a different direction. Despite the starting point — a mandate to protect civilians — and despite the fact that Norway, as the report also concludes, never had a regime change as a target, this did not vote for the largest of Norway’s allies. The aim of the powers of the storms became increasingly clear: they wanted to change the regime. The mandate was, in our opinion, broken through this. The support was also missing. The Arab League turned around. The African Union was critical. Therefore, early in May 2011, SV joined in order to complete the Norwegian mission. The government subsequently took such a decision in the summer of 2011. It was correct and important that Norway withdrew at that time. We have to learn from the Libyan War. The report and the statements are of no value if we do not take up our experience and change our policies on the points that are necessary for the future. One of the things that experience shows us is that NATO is a better tool for the major-est interests than it is for the United Nations. The term of office was used differently from that initially intended. This is also the reason why SV has since gone against participation in U.S.-led coalitions in the Middle East. Sending soldiers to war is a serious decision. The sample concludes that it happened within the constitutional framework, but it happened quickly. A rapid process of low publicity and debate creates uncertainty and weakens public confidence. SV therefore suggests – as we have done before – that the government’s reason for participation in any future military operation must be presented to the Stortinget and dealt with through voting in the Stortinget. The committee also recommends that Norway develop a so-called checklist for this type of decision. We agree with this and have proposed in the setting a number of points that should be on such a list. The committee concludes that there are no points of reference to claim that Norway has broken our humanitarian obligations. Nevertheless, I believe that it is essential to strive for as much openness as possible around that question. In Denmark, information on the tokens was updated on a daily basis. I believe that we now have to do the same in Norway, and we therefore propose that the government publish all relevant information on the bombings in Norway. As regards Document 8:68, we agree that the Constitution § 25 and 26 should be revised. However, it is the Stortinge that adopts constitutional changes, so the proposal must come from Stortinge. SV will make such a proposal. Today we see a locked situation in the world and in the UN where it is unmistakable that the major powers will be able to gather for a mandate to protect civilians again. This is a result of how the Western powers handled the UN mandate during the Libyan War. The SV proposal will help Norway to learn from what went wrong, and that this exercise will not be a symbolic act, but a debate in which we really take lessons and change Norwegian policy. I would like to include in this the range of suggestions that SV is left alone in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e392	The representative Audun Lighthouse has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e397	‘The Norwegian F16 aircraft and their crews did during the war in Libya were extremely violent, devastating and deadly. Norway has not used more brutal military power since World War II.» These aren't my words, this is VG's description of the nearly 600 bombs that Norwegian planes dropped over Libya in NATO's war of regime change in 2011. The then government, the Stoltenberg government, claimed that the bombings against Libya were to protect the country's civilians. The result was the opposite. Altogether, millions of Libyans were injured, traumatized, killed or driven away, and Libya was a haven for Islamic terrorist groups like Al Qaida and IS just outside Europe's living door. From the British Parliament's investigation, we also know that the intervention was built on manifestly questionable intelligence, propaganda and disinformation, and that our NATO allies were always intent on breaking the UN mandate by bombing regime change. Never since World War II has a Norwegian government decision had such tragic consequences for as many human lives as the decision to bomb Libya. All of this is known by the elected representatives of the Grand Duchy, who are today going to vote on the settlement of the Libyan war. That's why it's disappointing, we think, that the parties in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence reject our proposal for what should be the obvious lesson of the Libyan war: that the Norwegian Community's defence resources should be used to defend Norway, not to participate in the dubious attacks of other major powers on countries that do not threaten us or any allies of us. One reason why Norway is a quite well-functioning society, with little corruption and great transparency, is that in Norway we have strict laws, rules and procedures that regulate the rulers and that we take decisions on the right factual basis, that policy-makers have to take responsibility when things go wrong, and that mistakes are corrected and prevented for the future, with new decisions, laws and rules. Clearly, it has a preventative effect when politicians know that they can have their political career ruined because of things like formal flaws in the construction of a jetty or similar. But when it comes to decisions about war and peace, these rules don't apply to taking responsibility and correcting mistakes. 20 years ago, Norway bombed Yugoslavia without a UN mandate. The war in Afghanistan was, according to the Godal Committee, a total failure, and Libya became even worse. But no matter how huge the gap between the promises made by politicians when they want to go to war, and the results of the war lead to, nothing happens. No one should take responsibility, and no corrections are made. It also shows the positions of the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee. Despite the fact that Stoltenberg's error of the Storting was quite obvious, it was only Red who did something to make him explain himself to the Storting. Despite Amnesty International saying that a number of civilians were killed and injured in NATO's bombing, only Red will have an independent investigation of how many were killed in the Norwegian attacks. And despite the total failure of the Libyan war, like the Afghanistan war, it is only Red that will decide that the Community's tax money and Norwegian soldiers' lives should not be wasted on the war adventures of other major powers, but used to defend our country. That's why there's also a bigger and more fundamental question we're going to deal with today. Will the most serious decisions on war and peace continue to be exempt from all normal principles of responsibility and correction of errors, or will the use of Norwegian military force for assault wars on false premises and with devastating results for millions of innocents lead to dishwashing and course change, which occurs in the event of serious errors and misdeeds in all other policy areas? With this I take up Red's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e418	The representative Bears Moxnes has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e424	First, I would like to thank the case rapporteur for a good job with the setting. I would also like to thank the sample who has submitted the report once again, and I would also like to refer to the statement I made in Stortinget on 8 January. The report to the Libya Committee has created a debate. There was also one of the objectives of the sample. Open debate on foreign and security policy choices and dilemmas is important and healthy. As I showed in my presentation, the circumstances surrounding the Libya operation were in many ways unique. There was a clear and broad mandate from the United Nations Security Council for military use under Chapter 7 of the United Nations Charter. Then the Arab League had asked for a military intervention in Libya. At home, our participation had the support of all the parties represented on the Stortinget, and the prevailing perception was that there was a great risk of a massacre on civilians if Gaddafi's forces were attacked by Benghazi, and that the international community had the opportunity to prevent the serious abuses. Norway, along with many others, responded to a clear call from the United Nations Security Council, and so the representative Moxnes describes as ‘the war adventure of the Great Powers’ is not correct. If we are not going to be able to respond to the clear demands of international society to intervene, in my opinion, our role in the world is quite different from that of a large majority here in the Chamber. Norway's participation in the operation was aimed at contributing to the fulfilment of the Security Council Resolution 1973, which authorized the use of power to protect the population and populated places, including Benghazi, and to implement the aviation ban zone over Libya. Libya, for its part, was obliged to comply with the Security Council's requirements, such as: immediately halted all acts of violence in Libya, immediate ceasefire and stop in all attacks on civilians. I notice that several people have asked questions about the situation of both the Security Council and Norway. There are different opinions internationally about what really happened on the ground in Libya in March 2011, and what intentions the Gaddafi regime had. But counter-factual discussions are little fruitful, and much of what you know – or think you know – today was not part of the 2011 decision-making base, either for the Security Council or for the government at that time. It would be more appropriate to discuss the various dilemmas associated with the use of military power, and I mentioned in particular four dilemmas in my presentation. One is to act versus not to act; the other is the question of what is good enough information; the third is the question of how a conflict and thus the military operation develops; and the fourth is the role of Norway within a broader international effort. These are the dilemmas to which those who always sit and rule must take an active stand. It is not an alternative to refrain from dealing with these questions. Nor is it possible to eliminate all risks in international operations. You never want perfect action options or full information. It is important for the government to stress that many of the recommendations contained in the Petersen Committee's report have already been followed up by the government. Let me use this as a clear example: in connection with Norwegian participation in the anti-ISIL coalition in Syria in 2016, the assessments of the international legal basis were published in writing and published in full. I have noticed that the Committee's position calls for this to be a future practice, and that the sample also believes that this is a good example of follow-up. This is also the government's clear intention, and that's why we did it. The aim of such publication was, of course, to ensure greater transparency in the assessments of this type of key decision and difficult and important decision making. It is important for confidence in the decisions, and it is also important to recognise, as the Committee also does in its position, that everything cannot be open and public, and that is why we have the consultation mechanisms of the enlarged Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, which work well and as intended. As regards the issue of constitutional changes, this is also a point mentioned by the sample. I have noticed that, as such, naturally, the Committee does not come up with any clear recommendation, but points out some dangers, and in this context I will concentrate on so far as I agree with what the representative Lysbakken said, namely that it is the Storting that in that case must initiate constitutional amendments. And of course, there is a debate and a discussion that the government will then follow and, of course, follow – if there are any changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e447	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e452	Today we are a military player in the fight against ISIL and have partly succeeded in doing so, at least territorially, in Iraq. We are also involved in the fight against terrorism in Mali. Now we have had this thorough evaluation, and we have also had an evaluation of our efforts in Afghanistan. What are the main lessons learned from this evaluation that the Minister for Foreign Affairs takes with him in the further work?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e459	I think the sample has pointed to many important things, and I already have in the presentation and also now mentioned someone I think is important, like for example. the publication of the basis of international law and the assessments to be made. So I believe that the struggle we are now part of, against ISIL, is an important image of the fact that the international community has also learned, among other things. by the Libyan Operation. The fight against ISIL is organised along five operating lines, where the military part is only one of them. I think it's pretty broad international agreement that it was a pity that neither the Security Council nor Libya had any appetite for a further political process at that time, in 2011, which might have made things different in Libya today than it was. The lessons have been learned and said that the efforts you make must be both military and civil, and you must have clear objectives for the civil effort, as you also have in the fight against ISIL.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e466	The fight against ISIL has been won militarily. I think we all have to admit it. The question is whether, after the operation in Libya, we waited too long to give support to those parts of Iraqi society that wanted to take up the military fight against ISIL. Did we just wait too long?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e471	It became clear early, when you saw the guys of ISIL, that there was a desire from the international community to intervene. From the very beginning, Norway took part in what was a collective self-defense of Iraq. So it's quite right, as the representative says, that territorial ISIL is now at the nearest turn. This does not mean that ISIL no longer poses a threat, and we see daily actions and operations that prove that the organisation can continue to carry on both terrorist activities and pose a threat regionally but also globally. It is therefore important that efforts are now focused on building the capacity to prevent ISIL from re-presenting that type of threat. One of the reasons we chose to participate was that this also poses a threat to Europe and to us. We believe it is important that the international community set up for the region, but also to contribute to security in our region.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e478	In this great work that has been done, one has also looked at elements that should be discussed when a decision is made to participate in international operations. I found the Foreign Minister summarizing the dilemma one has to deal with, very well with his four points. But there is also – and it shows Libya with all clarity – a need for a discussion about what a do when a military operation has ended. The Central Party called for an exit strategy in relation to Iraq, and we called for it in connection with Afghanistan. In Libya we see that the exit strategy was absent, and one left behind a country in chaos. How will the Foreign Minister initiate that one also gets with that part of the debate before a decision is taken, and sees her need for it?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e485	You have to always try to have a so-called exit strategy. It is formulated in the context of the fight against ISIL and the collective self-defense of Iraq. When ISIL is no longer considered to represent or pose a threat, the mission will be beyond that point. This has led us to be flexible in our contribution to the fight against ISIL and to being where there has been a need, and to moving from those areas where there has been no longer a need, or where one can no longer say that this is as acute. But there is also a real dilemma in this with exit strategies. If there's something we know from modern military operations, it's that the assumptions on the ground can change quickly. It also means that what was an exit strategy when you started might change along the way because conditions make it necessary. This flexibility is also necessary in order not to end up in a situation where, for example: has a date-fixed extract that allows the situation to be left on the ground to be worse than it was before.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e492	I thank you for your answer. I'm told in that, that things can change along the way, and they did that in Libya, too. From the Norwegian side, a selection might not have provided the whole of the change and goal that some allies might have had from the start. The Minister of Foreign Affairs named ISIL and our participation there. The United States is negotiating with the Taliban. It is well done, but the government is not online. Norway is a small country, but we have great trustworthiness internationally, not least in negotiations. Then the question is: will the Foreign Minister initiate a role for Norway in those negotiations? Does she see that the United States is going to invite the government first, of course, but that other countries too can have a role, and in that case what can Norway's role be?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e499	As I explained in my foreign policy statement, we have also been in contact with the Taliban for a long time in order to help facilitate any talks. That means that we assist the parties if they want our assistance. A prerequisite for a Norwegian engagement is always that both parties want us to contribute, and we are also very clear that, even if we act neutrally, we are never impartial, as I also explained in the statement, because we base both a set of values and some basic assumptions on which we should be able to have an involvement. That being said, we are also concerned that the current talks between the United States and the Taliban need to be expanded to include the Afghan Government. This must be a process that is Afghanid and-led, in addition to the fact that the dialogue currently taking place between the United States and the Taliban is also a prerequisite for the Taliban. I believe it is important that we recognise that this is the situation, that all conversations that take place are better than they do not take place. And if that can lead to a solution, and if the parties want it, we can also help.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e506	The Secretary of State was aware that there is much we don't know, both about what is happening in Libya, what has happened, and what would have happened. But that is an argument to strive for as much transparency as possible from the Norwegian side. Denmark has gone much further than Norway in sharing information on what the Danish planes did in Libya and on bombing targets. In the setting, SV has asked the government to publish information on all bombings from Norway. I wonder why the government parties are not prepared to share information to the same extent as the Danes have done, or whether the government might be inclined to do so, even though the government parties have not supported it in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e512	I propose that this question be put to the Minister of Defence, since this is about defence capabilities. However, the sample is very clear in its report that the information we have – and with which the representative Lysbakken is well acquainted – clarify these questions quite well. That is why – as the Minister of Defence has also responded to the Moxnes proposal for a representative – there is no need to investigate this further. There's a lot of openness around the question, and we're also striving from our side about the operations we're now involved in, to keep the Storting constantly informed about how the development of the operations is. Then I believe that there are assessments from the time the operation took place, which of course is important for what was done then. Then the representative Lightbaked himself in government, and I am not going to put myself away now. But I believe that the openness Norway shows, and what we do to Stortinget, is important to have legitimacy for the operation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e521	Then I will follow that question further up with the Minister of Defense – and he has time to prepare for it. I would like to ask a question to the Minister of Foreign Affairs relating to post-war remediation, because unmanned ammunition can pose a threat to Libyan civilians. The countries that participated in the war also have a responsibility to be involved and contribute to cleaning up. I wonder what the government is doing to help – either now or at least in the future – clean up unexploited ammunition and explosives.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e528	This is in so far a problem that every country is responsible for helping to solve, and we are contributing to clearing up very many countries, far more countries than where we ourselves have been engaged militarily. There's something we're doing because we know that this can be a danger. We work closely with many organizations that operate with everything from mining to detonation of unexplosed explosives. In our opinion, the work that we and others have contributed to in Libya in this context is important. This is something we do in general, also in areas where we haven't been engaged in military activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e533	On 9 May 2011, Ine M. Eriksen Søreide spoke in the Stortinget for continued participation in the Libyan War and then said that bombing Libya will contribute to a more predictable world order. Then NATO's bombers were doing a good job bombing the government army. At the same time, the veto of the United Nations felt completely deceived by NATO, because when Germany, Russia and China abstained to Resolution 1973 and Russia and China were allowed to use the veto right, it was because they believed in NATO's promises that an intervention would only be about protecting civilians and not about regime change. The war ended up familiar with the killing of Gadaffi. I wonder, in the light of the chaos that prevails in Libya and the distrust between the forces of the Security Council, whether the perception is still that the Libya war contributed to a more predictable world order – or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e540	The representative of Moxnes has made it a favorite exercise to talk about what was said in 2011. I am fully in favour of my right hand support for the operation. I have also repeated that to the representative of Moxnes several times. I believe that a very significant premise for the representative's question is wrong, and it is only the Libya operation that has made us today have a firm situation in the Security Council. There are many reasons for this, and it has far more implications than the question of participation and the mandate given by the Security Council in 2011. We had a situation in 2011, which everyone who has spoken here in the Chamber has pointed out, namely an impending massacre that the United Nations had as its objective to stop. It supported Norway, and that was something we wanted to contribute to by the Norwegian side, because the consequences, the alternatives, were worse.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e549	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e554	Let me start by thanking the rapporteur and the committee, and also the committee for the report we have received. And thank you for the opportunity to discuss Norway's participation in the Libya operation in 2011. As I stressed in my statement on 8 January, it is sending out soldiers in armed conflict among the most serious decisions a government can take. I am therefore pleased that the Libya Committee concluded that in 2011 the government’s decision-making process met all the constitutional requirements and that the formal procedures for consultation with the Stortinget were followed. It is important that the majority of the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee subscribe to this assessment and endorse the established division of labour between magnification and government on issues of participation in international operations. I agree with the Committee that a more informed public debate on Norwegian foreign and security policy is important. Participation in international operations increases involvement, and it is important that the reasons for Norway’s participation, communication and discussion are discussed. To this end, the Government facilitates this through consultations within the enlarged Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, through presentations of open magnification and through Questionnaires and interpellations. In addition, we contribute to public vocabulary with answers to the media and participation in different venues for debate. These are the very central aspects of our democracy. As the Committee also emphasises, greater transparency on key decisions relating to the use of Norwegian military power abroad will increase confidence in our political system in the population. There's an area government will focus on following up in a good way. The government will be open mostly, with the exception of what challenges the security of operations, the security of the personnel and the relationship with our allies. The system of closed consultations and sharing classified information with Stortinget is therefore working well. Norwegian women and men on mission to Norway should not be in doubt that the decision on Norwegian participation in international operations has been taken on a solid basis and has broad political support and that the security of operations is ensured. We therefore share a shared responsibility for the proper conduct of the debate. I agree with the Committee that Norwegian participation in certain scale and duration operations is evaluated and reviewed once the exposure has been completed. This does not mean that any Norwegian participation in international operations should be subject to a rigid and resource-intensive evaluation system. Something like this would indicate a lack of confidence in our own constitutional practices and the quality of the deliberations between magnification and government in these kinds of cases. That is why I welcome the fact that the members of the Committee from the Labour Party and the Central Party are expressing that it is not necessary, in principle, to establish a rigid system for this type of evaluation. Norway’s efforts in the fight against ISIL are of such a nature that it should be subject to evaluation. At the same time, we must be aware that this is an ongoing operation. It suggests that it is too early to start an evaluation now. There should be some time before the evaluation is carried out to include information from the defence experience learning processes in the process. The Libya Committee has done a thorough review of what happened in 2011. However, some of the representatives consider that there is a need for further investigations into Norwegian bombing targets and the protection of untonished ammunition. This has already been the subject of defence investigations, as part of the 2012 review of the United Nations Commission and NATO own evaluations. None of the objectives that were the subject of international investigation due to suspicion of civil consequential damage were attacked by Norwegian aeroplanes. There is no point in claiming that Norwegian aircraft must have caused accidental civilian deaths. It is very unlikely that Norway will be responsible for consequential damage to weapons that have not taken or have detonated. All the 588 bombs for which Norway was responsible in Libya in 2011 have been reported. Let there be no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e573	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e578	I have a question related to the soldiers participating for Norway in various international missions – those in Afghanistan, those participating in the fight against ISIL in Iraq, and those participating in Mali. It is important that we have an open debate in Stortinget, but at the same time it is important that those who leave have decision-makers behind. If we go back to the situation that has been up here, and the discussion as it is taking place in Denmark, where the decision to send soldiers in the war in Iraq – a war in which I was against Norwegian participation, and Norway did not participate – was taken by a narrow majority in the Parliament: What does the Minister of Defence think about the kind of decisions, that participation in a war is taken with one voice's overweight?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e583	First of all, I think it's a very central question when we discuss these kinds of things. Secondly, there must be some directions here: 1) There must be a unanimous political decision by a government when sending out people. 2) It is important that in the public debate, too, the justification for doing something as serious as sending out Norwegian armed forces is maintained. The reason we have when we send them out, we also have to keep going. That's not the reason we're going to change politically along the way, so you're going out in the first place, and then you're going to find yourself in another story. That is why I believe that the division of responsibilities that we now have between magnification and government is right and very important. It's clear who makes the decision, it's clear who's responsible when you're out, and it's obvious afterwards who was responsible for it. That's why I think the solution we have in Norway is very good, and then we're going to discuss the transparency section around it, discuss the public debate. However, the responsibility of the politicians who have it is correct and important.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e588	The Labour Party agrees with the responsibilities of the government and the Stortinge in these kinds of cases, but the issue is actually broader. It will be an advantage when we send Norwegian soldiers into different operations, that in these cases there is a wider majority than the government parties represent. In my view, there is no advantage in the way they do in other countries, for which perhaps the government parties are in favour, but a large minority in Parliament are opposed to sending the soldiers into a similar operation. I think it becomes more difficult for Norwegian soldiers to participate in such a context and will argue very strongly for, even if I want to keep the responsibility between government and magnification, that there must be broad support to send Norwegian soldiers out.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e594	There I fully agree, and I also record broad support in Parliament that we have had back in all situations. It is a good tradition to make sure that it is well politically anchored in the Storting. At the same time, we are living in a democracy, and in the political debate, it must be allowed to disagree. But that is why I believe that the distribution of responsibilities is correct as it is today. That is why I also believe that there is a government to ensure good anchoring in Stortinget. But in order to keep the debate, the good public debate, we must also be careful about the division of responsibilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e599	It has been claimed that international coordination was too poor during the Libyan action, that is. for the lease aspect. Norway was a significant contributor to the Libya operation, but did not have a place around the table at the top of the command structure. Does the Minister of Defense think that Norway should have had it, and what will he do to ensure that Norway in any future operation is secured such a place, if one is to enter with as heavy a military contribution as Norway did in this operation?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e604	There are many learning factors after the different operations. We were invited in a Nordic circuit to sit at that command part, and I record that the selection is a bit critical of that organization. It will always be important that we sit as closely as possible. At the same time, the ‘Red Card Holder’ scheme – the possibility for Norway to say no to participate, down to each individual flight – is a good tool in this respect. The selection is not critical of the way we've done the operations down there. On the contrary, it is said that we have fulfilled all the obligations, and we have had full control of that part. Then we can probably go in and look at how the different operations are organized, but the practice we did down there shows that we had control. But the organisation of the Nordic community has been criticized.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e609	I thank you for your answer. "Red Card Holder" is also a discussed theme, the role of the person concerned. Norway had probably a person who was supposed to have that role at any time, but it's kind of crazy. It has been criticised from a different angle that we had quite heavy military capabilities inside – on planes and on that side – but where one put and had the control of them, it was thin, and it put individuals with a very heavy responsibility. Does the Minister of Defense think it is sufficient to have as thin a crew in such an important post as in this case, or is it also a learning point that one should bring with him to later?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e614	The defense makes evaluations of all the operations they are involved in. The ‘Red Card’ scheme is a good one. That, of course, is a great responsibility. It requires that we have the most capable to exercise it, and I record that we have not received criticism for the exercise. There were good people there. Then there'll be a discussion for the head of defense if he thinks he's manned it hard enough. But it is an important function that we can sit so close to the operations and at the same time say yes or no to what we are going to participate in, assessed against the different obligations we have – international law, humanitarian or with regard to the rules of the operational that we have put in place for the operation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e619	I noticed that the Minister of Defense was right in the throat of the SV's proposal for more publicity around Norwegian bombing. I would like to stress that this is not about drawing the conclusions of the Selection Board on Norway's compliance with its humanitarian obligations. We are pleased with those conclusions. But the sample itself, in the hearings, has underlined that there is of course still a lot of uncertainty and things we don't know, related to what happened on the ground in Libya in 2011, and this debate is served with a great deal of transparency. Therefore, our simple question is why Norway cannot see itself served with the same degree of openness and publicity around it as Denmark has — neither more nor less. I will repeat that question to the Minister of Defence. Why can't Norway have the same transparency practice as the Danes have had?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e624	Firstly, I believe that it should not be experienced as we went right into the throat of SV. No, what I said in my post was that we have made these assessments according to the rules and procedures we think are good. We've undergone that operation. We've gone beyond the activities and the bombings that have been. We've done it ourselves. We have done so in cooperation with the UN. We believe that this work has been completed. I also believe that the sample covers this, in a chapter, thoroughly in its report. We think we know what we need to know about that operation. You can always be doubtful about the method. But we believe that the methodology that has been used is good, and we believe that the job the sample has done with its report is adequate for that particular problem. That's what I said in my post.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e631	I would like to think that even when you know what you need to know – and perhaps especially then – you should see yourself served with a great deal of transparency. Let me go on, for the Minister of Defence boasted of the institution's respect for the established division of labour between government and enlargement in this area. As the Minister of Defence knows, SV believes that this type of decision should be anchored in Stortinget in a different way, through open treatment and through voting. We disagree. However, the defence of the established division of labour often sounds like the alternatives will be completely irresponsible. Then I will refer again to Denmark. So when Denmark entered the Libyan War, it did so after debate and decision in the Folketing, in line with the Danish Constitution and Danish tradition for this. Does the Minister of Defence think that Denmark has some kind of democratic problem, less efficiency or less credibility associated with these kinds of decisions?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e638	Now there were many things. First, I have to say that we believe that the control that has been applied to the bombs, that methodology, is good, and that the way the sample has covered it is good, not the same as less transparency. We actually believe that this work has been good, so you can't always disagree with less openness. To the question of the Constitution and the distribution: there is a question for the Stortinget. I totally agree with Mr SV in that. At the same time, I have my opinion on that, and my opinion on that matter is that for the sake of the crew, it is important that it is clear who has made the political decision, who has the political responsibility for the decision that has been taken. I think it's problematic if it's going to be able to pull out and get wider, and if it's going to follow in addition a political debate, where you'd like to see the reasons and the history behind change. We are clear now, and yet today we are in a debate where we are discussing what was the starting point in 2011 when the Lysbakken party itself put into government and made a decision. No, I think it's important that we're tight here.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e645	It's 2.5 per million of NATO's bombings that have been investigated by the United Nations, so it's strange to say that they've investigated whether the Norwegian bombs have killed civilians, when that's the fact. Furthermore, these studies found that many civilians were killed in these NATO attacks — the studies that did not look at Norwegian bombings. What I'm asking is the fact that NATO countries promised that the Libyan war was only about protecting civilians and not about regime change, when the reality is that NATO bombed for regime change and got it replaced as one of course wanted. Does the Council of State believe that Norway should rely on NATO's insurance next time they want Norway in a war and promise that an intervention is only about civilians and not about regime change, as they said when it was Libya?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e650	Here we were presented with a happy compound argument to try to tear down international institutions. So the United Nations has done its research, the defense has participated in them. The selection has looked through what has been done, and concludes that the Norwegian activity has been within the laws and regulations we have set. You have to disagree with both the UN and others in those things. To the question of NATO had plans for a regime change: No, it was based on a UN resolution. Of course, you can discuss whether we knew enough before the decision was made, and whether that was what happened afterwards. It's also a question where you can answer that yes, it may be the consequences of a United Nations-led world order, but sometimes international cooperation is needed to do things. So if you're against an institution like the United Nations, you can of course ask questions about it. This time I believe that the evaluations you made in the Chamber today have been very well explained, and the knowledge that was on the table when you made a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e658	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e663	This open debate is important in order to create an open debate on Norway’s participation in the Libyan operation and on other foreign operations. We had a debate in this room in 2011. We have agreed to evaluate Norway's contribution, and we agree to both examine this matter in committee and have an open discussion. It has never been before – as we have had after the Afghanistan evaluation and this evaluation, which has also been followed up in the discussion on our contribution to the fight against ISIL now – a more open discussion in the Storting on the dilemmas of that kind of military mission. But back in 2011, the aim was to protect Libya's civilian population from Gaddafi's authoritarian and violent regime. After the operation, we got no UN force in, and the population stood alone after the brutal and authoritarian leader was killed. People experienced a humanitarian crisis and a lack of basic security. It led to a vacuum of power that was not filled by democratic forces, but by various warlords. The experience is that if we're going to go in, we have to have the capacity and the will to stabilize society afterwards. Some of the same experiences took place in the world's society in Iraq. We in Norway were against the intervention in 2003. The international forces entering Iraq probably left the country prematurely, giving ISIL free rein to establish its caliphate in 2014. Back to the Libya evaluation: Norwegian forces made a very good effort in Libya. The military objectives were achieved. This shows how capable people we have in the Norwegian defense. They deserve a thank you from us who decided to send them out to participate in an operation with a United Nations mandate. What was missing was a political solution following the fall of the Gaddafi regime. It was the Stortinget who asked for this evaluation, as we previously asked for the evaluation of the efforts in Afghanistan. In my view, it would be right to evaluate our participation in the fight against ISIL and the efforts for stabilisation in Iraq when the time comes. We know such reviews are important in order to gain experience. In the evaluation, one indicates that the decision was taken in line with constitutional practice. It can be argued that there should have been a meeting held earlier in the enlarged Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. There was also a disagreement between the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs as to whether the participation of Norwegian forces was legitimate under international law. It should have been clear before we went to the debate in this room, which of the definitions was based on. I also think it is right to update the Basic Law so that the wording is more consistent with current practice. This is also in line with the recommendations of the sample. A decision in Stortinget at that time had not changed Norway’s position. At the time, there was consultation in the enlarged Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, there was a formal decision in the Council of State, and there was a debate here in the Grand Chamber. And if instead there had been voting in Stortinget after the discussion, the decision would have been the same. All parties supported the action in Libya. Our belief that the Arab Spring should lead to democracy and free societies throughout the Middle East today appears to be an utopian dream. The whole region has taken more steps back, and the sprouts of democratic democracy have been shut down. A lot went wrong afterwards. However, the debate in Stortinget on the UN's clear mandate for the operation was relatively nuanced. The Prime Minister stressed that there were no ideal alternatives to action. As regards the view on the use of military power, the Prime Minister said in 2011: ‘The use of military power does not in itself lead to a political solution to the complex conflicts in Libya. Yes, a military intervention can in itself make such conflicts deeper. There must therefore be a very high threshold for the use of military power in international relations. In the case of Libya, the world society faced several far from perfect alternatives to action.’ With political views of being in principle against all military interventions, even when civil life is at stake, action options are lacking once a mandate has been given by the UN Security Council. Action paralysis during the genocides of Rwanda and Srebrenica is the background of the doctrine Responsible to protect. That the world community did not do enough to avert these genocides was a serious trigger, and it became clear that military intervention in given situations is necessary. Negative experience after the Libya operation took a long time before some intervened militarily against ISIL's cruel behaviour in Syria and Iraq. It may appear in the future to be a sin of omission. I do not claim that decisions on military intervention are simple. Sometimes it can also have unintended consequences. It can lead to increasing upsurges in extreme terrorist groups, and where an authoritarian regime falls, the vacuum of power can be filled by equal authoritarian leaders or competing terrorist groups. Both parts create fear and instability for the civilian population. But – and this is important – when you fear genocide and face a difficult ethical choice, it is not to let go of doing the same thing as not making any mistakes. No, as part of a world society, we have a responsibility to make our contribution to prevent human suffering where we can. That's why we went into Libya with a clear UN mandate. That is why we have taken part in the military to stop ISIL, and that is why we took part in Kosovo, even without a UN mandate, to prevent genocide. It was just such a situation we faced when the Prime Minister explained to Stortinget that we had extensive information about the development of an emergency situation for Libya's civilian population. He said, «The world witnessed an authoritarian ruler who met peaceful protests with sharp shots and heavy shooting. The situation evolved toward a civil war. Colonel Gaddafi clearly stated that his intention was to crush the opposition, and that there would be no mercy." That is why we took part, and I believe that the evaluation, presentation, comitology and an open debate in the main hall are important to gain experience from that type of military operation. I'm addressing proposal No. 1 on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e707	The representative Anniken Huitfeldt has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e712	One of the most demanding decisions to take is to send Norwegian forces into international operations. Getting a review and evaluation, which we have now received, allows us to also – at least try – manage to have a distance close to what happened, but also a proximity to that distance. The report on the evaluation of Norwegian participation in the Libyan operations in 2011 provides a thorough review of the decision-making process, but also an overall evaluation of Norwegian participation in the operations. The Stoltenberg government put in the driver’s seat at the time and took the difficult decision on participation. There is a clear division of responsibilities between accumulation and government related precisely to Norwegian participation in international operations, and this division of responsibilities must be firm. It is the government that is the executive that decides any Norwegian participation in international operations. Consulting the Stortinget, discussing with the Stortinget, is important, but the decision lies with the government. I would like to stress that there was no dissent in the government on this resolution, it was a unanimous, comprehensive decision by the government. It is peculiar to see that some of the parties – not all – that at that time constituted the Stoltenberg government are trying to distance themselves from that decision. While decisions are not required in the Storting for participation in foreign policy situations, right-wing practices from different governments also support, of course, the emphasis on broad support on important foreign and security policy issues, as we have experience from. The report confirms that the Norwegian contribution for the strength complied with Norway’s humanitarian obligations. The UN Security Council Resolutions provided an adequate basis for the use of military power in Libya. Paragraphs 25 and 26 of the Constitution currently contain the legal constitutional framework for Norwegian foreign policy and the use of defence powers. Norway actively contributed at all levels in NATO, and the control of the use of the strength contribution worked well and in line with the political and legal frameworks. I should also like to pay some attention to the representative proposal that Red has put on the table. We've got a new nationalist party. For the first time, I hear Red saying that Norway’s defence will be used in Norway and end at Ørje and Svinesund – not helping out, not helping in other, international operations. It is quite alarming to me if that party were to form some of the majority of an opposition that in the future might form a government. Thus, Norway’s position for Norway and the Defence only for Norway is that it is not recognised that international unrest and unrest can also have an influence on Norway and that Norway should not contribute. It's alarming. I understand that Svinesund and Ørje are central in my area and for Norway otherwise, but that the defense will stop there is alarming. The representative proposal proposes to carry out an investigation into how many were killed and injured by the bombs dropped by Norwegian fighter aircraft over Libya. NATO operations in Libya include: have been examined by a United Nations Commission in 2012, and we have previously been informed by the Minister of Defence that this Commission has concluded that NATO has acted with care and has taken a number of precautions to avoid the loss of civil life. Furthermore, it has been stated that none of the military objectives that were the subject of international investigations due to suspicion of civil consequential damage was attacked by Norwegian aircraft. That's the conclusions. It is true that there is a clear division of responsibilities between accumulation and government related to Norwegian participation in international operations and that it is firm. It is the government that is the executive and that decides any Norwegian participation in international operations, no matter how difficult it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e733	Like several of my colleagues in this debate, I would like to say that the participation of Norwegian military forces in military operations is, of course, a difficult decision for any government. The Libya operation, in particular the Norwegian Air Force, became a very extensive operation. It is therefore absolutely necessary and absolutely right that the Stortinge today discuss all aspects of the matter and draw the necessary conclusions. And I, like everyone else, will be careful to thank the sample for what I would call a very good job. That was well said by the representative Michael Tetzschner, I think that there was often a lot of after-school time, but here it is very much wise. I join those words. The attitude makes an important contribution, and that contribution is that it can provide the basis for a reflective discussion and attitude here in Stortinget, where we can draw on experiences that we can take with us when, if necessary, another time, later, can become relevant with Norwegian military participation in operations beyond the borders of Norway. Many have addressed the issue of the decision-making process in their interventions. The committee thus determines something which is widely supported by the Committee's setting-up: that all the constitutional provisions were followed. It went fast, but it was also necessary in the current situation. Decisions are not required in the Storting, but it is essential that decisions taken by the government on such demanding and serious issues are broadly and properly anchored. As the resolution unanimously states, it would be natural in the current situation for the government to consult the enlarged Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence early in the process. I believe that it is a lesson to take with me also for the future, i.e. that one within the framework set by the Constitution ensures the meaning and possible support of the Storting before final decisions are taken, at such an early stage that no one can ask questions about the legitimacy of the government decision. There's a lesson that needs to be clarified, and that I think we can really agree on all of them. It is natural and good that, in the extension of this debate, questions are raised about today's wording in the Basic Law § 25 and 26. In my view and in the view of the Labour Party, it is essential that the provisions of the Constitution on the right of the government to make decisions on an independent basis on the foreign government and the use of the defence power should be the sole domain of the government. I'm going to fix this. But it is true, as claimed by a number of teams, that the wording of the paragraphs in question does not reflect what is the prevailing legal opinion applicable to participation in international military operations. It should therefore be a task for the Stortinget, through a constitutional process and a constitutional process, to make the necessary changes to the Constitution. There are three areas that point out. One is the government's obligation to consult the Storting. The second is the provision that there will be enough strengths in Norway when we participate in foreign operations. The formulations are special as they stand, they should be reviewed and modernised. The third point relating directly to the Basic Law is the command authority over Norwegian forces during foreign operations. In my view, the three areas are necessary for the Storting to have an active view of making the Constitution more timely and correct, so that the Constitution does not create any kind of doubt as to the legitimacy of the government to take its decisions within the framework laid down by the Constitution. The last thing I want to say in my post is – as many people have been about – that it was a clear UN mandate. It must always be, at my discretion, if it is not an Article 5 decision under the NATO Treaty. That's another discussion. But if we don't have it, I believe it must be a clear UN mandate. We had that in this context. The UN mandate for Libya operations was directly and closely linked to the protection of the civilian population, as several have already said. For my part, I would like to say at this point that it is very necessary that the government, the decision-making authorities, and the Stortinget learn from what we saw from the development of the Libyan conflict, that the development of military operations will have different intentions and could lead to different conclusions and events than the United Nations mandate requires. It is good that the sample states that the Norwegian contribution was carried out within the UN mandate. I take note of that and join it. Nevertheless, it is of course necessary to think that when you participate in such operations, our participation also becomes part of a military totality that is very necessary for us to have full control over the effect of. It is not the case that political intentions other than those required by the United Nations mandate are the result of Norwegian participation. At this point, it is absolutely necessary that we be critical in view of possible future military participation in military operations beyond the borders of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e758	The review of the committee shows that the Norwegian decisions on military participation in the Libya operation were characterised by four unique aspects: Both the UN, NATO and our closest allies felt that military use of power was necessary. The Security Council had managed to reach an agreement on a mandate for the use of military power to protect civilians. There was support from regional actors, including the Arab League. A Norwegian contribution to military intervention had support in all parties in Stortinget. The combination of these conditions led to the decision on a Norwegian strength contribution. The strength contribution played a significant role in the first six months of the Libyan operation. There was broad international support for the intervention itself. We have many examples from history where the lack of intervention has had fatal consequences. Norwegian military efforts in Libya were assessed to be appropriate for central Norwegian interests. Through military efforts, Norway demonstrated the will and ability to implement UN decisions and to support NATO and central allies in NATO cooperation. In addition, through military efforts, Norway could also demonstrate support for global initiatives to protect civilians. The unique foreign policy situation that existed when the Security Council approved the use of military power to protect civilians in Libya made it difficult for the government to stand on the sideline in assessing whether Norway should contribute to these operations. Despite scepticism for a military contribution in parts of the government, there were few counter-conceptions about Norway’s participation. A strong media press also contributed to it. The risk of not acting was considered to be greater than the risk of not acting. The Norwegian authorities faced several challenges, in particular the understanding of developments in Libya. Norway had very limited knowledge of Libya when the uprising started in February 2011. In such situations, decision-makers often have to rely on information from the media and other countries. It is a strength of the Norwegian political system that it is possible for the government to take decisions at short notice in the field of foreign and security policy. This provides for the freedom, efficiency and flexibility necessary in international crisis management. That is why it is a little perceptive, the comment of the Central Party in dealing with this matter, a note of the Central Party stands alone, whereby the consultation obligation of the Government towards the Stortinget today is to be extended to a full plenary session in Stortinget, whether Norway should participate in military operations, and in its ultimate consequence, go to war. I am asking questions as to whether that comment is carefully considered as to its intended and unintended consequences. It is important that the mechanisms for sharing information between government and growth be further developed in order to facilitate a common understanding of the situation and speed when the situation so requires. Consultation with the organs of the Great Britain should take place as soon as possible and should be well anchored in the government. In recent years, Norwegian participation in international operations has often been met with objections related to the understanding of the Basic Law §§ 25 and 26. The wording of the Basic Law opens up for interpretation, and current constitutional practices may create unnecessary controversy related to the constitutionality of participation in international operations. It is not to be overlooked that the Committee expresses a sympathy, both between the lines and on the lines, as regards the recommendation of the sample to bring the wording of the Basic Law §25 and 26 more into line with current law.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e790	I have some comments that I would like to mention at the bottom of the debate, because some interesting information has come up. First of all, it is interesting to see that the former foreign minister, who was involved – I kept saying – in decision-making at the time, made a statement and disappeared. I think that's special. It is possible that he is following the TV screen, but he is in this committee and should perhaps have some interest in hearing the rest of political Norway look at what he agreed to decide at the time, and not leave it up to all of us to talk about this. So a comment to the representative Lysbakken, because I noted what he said, that it was necessary to say yes to military operations against Libya in 2011, not war for regime change, but an air ban zone. There's just a little bit of a resolution in 1973, there's more there. First, it says that Gaddafi is a criminal against humanity. Crimes against humanity are he accused of through the UN, but they also say to bomb command structures, command centers. People die there. There are a lot of people in these command centres, so it's quite obvious that Norwegian bombs, who were on this and followed the UN mandate, will kill people. It's clear. The representative Lighthouse says he wants the bomb targets. These bombings have been brought to the attention of the Defense, and they have also been brought to NATO's attention. Then I would like to ask: what is the representative Lighthouse with that? What shall he use it for, except to hold an appeal outside the Storting against war? Is that what he wants to use it for? I really wonder. So to the representative of Moxnes, who has also been involved with some others, who said that Norway should not use military resources ‘against countries that do not threaten us or any allies of us’. That's interesting. It is possible that the representative of Moxnes has some other allies than e.g. The rest of the hall, it can do for her, but initially, allies are what we consider to be NATO allies. But it is perhaps more alarming that, in what is called solidarity, the representative of Moxnes will act only to defend, use defence resources in Norway, and let the world sail its own sea. The representative Moxnes is going up to the pulpit afterwards, and it's going to be interesting to hear if he actually meant what he said, or if he's trying to turn away by saying what he didn't say – I kept saying. Once again to the representative of Moxnes, who also wants to know how many people were killed: what should the representative of Moxnes with that information – 10, 12, 13 or 18? What should the representative of Moxnes do with that, without holding an appeal and saying that Norwegian bombs killed 18 people? Maybe they killed 18 people, but they were command centers, which was completely legitimate according to the UN mandate. What is Moxnes going to do with that information?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e805	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e810	We are discussing here an evaluation of the Libya exposure following a proposal from SV. SV has been very concerned and critical of the fact that much of the defence and foreign debate has taken place in the closed room since the party started in the 1960s. We've always wanted greater publicity about this kind of process. We have also wanted – in all those decades – a greater and clearer accountability of the Stortinge in such matters. That is why it is very good that we have now received two evaluation reports, both on Afghanistan and on Libya, which open this debate up to Norwegian public opinion, which gets the debate into the Storting in a very good and important way. It is instructive and will enable decisions on similar operations to be taken in the future with a completely different level of public information and with good decision-making procedures. In addition, we believe – and we have included this in the proposal – that this should also create an important precedent. We want a firm practice for this type of evaluation, and based on what I hear in the hall today, I should think that this should be agreed by the Stortinget. Everyone boasts of the evaluation report, all boasts of how good debates we've got behind it. As a result, it is rather alarming that we do not receive support for a firm practice around this type of report. A little bit of criticism from Tybring-Gjedde, criticising SV for creating a clear distinction between mandates and operations based on emergency and regime change. For us, it's a crucial distinction. SV is not against the use of power to protect civilians as long as it is based on a good decision-making basis, good information, a good framework for international law and – I would add for my own part – that it is behind the mandate of good systems and procedures for a subsequent rule-of-law solution. That is why we agreed to this when it came up in 2011. What we are against, on the other hand, is that this kind of emergency community is later abused to other relationships, to regime change, to different kinds of major interest. It was evident in winter/spring that the United Kingdom, the United States and France wanted to use this in other circumstances. We are fundamentally opposed to this, because it is precisely when such mandates are abused that we are destroying the possibility in the future to be able to carry out good interventions, based on protecting civilians. After the Libya operation, the corresponding need for intervention may in fact be weakened – and it is critical.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e821	The Libyan war was marked by the fallacy of the Great – both of the intention of the war, of the consequences, of who were the Allies, as we know were Islamic terrorist groups on the ground, of the basis of the war, and even of whether we were at war, or not. Today, both the Right and the Advance Party are deluding what is Red’s proposal. It is clear from the proposal that we want to use Norway's defences to defend Norway and for operations led by the UN. So here's the question of Tybring-Gjedde and Schou can read, or not. And if they can, there's no doubt about what we mean about this. We are opposed to using the resources of the Defense of Attack Wars based on false premises, which create enormous suffering for the civilians, which happened in Libya. I can add the Chief of Defense's words that participation in NATO's foreign wars has gone at the expense of our domestic preparedness. Think about it a little bit. They sacrifice Norway's domestic preparedness to contribute to wars that only create more security threats, killing civilians and not solving anything. You could call us what you want, but we're a party that puts the defense of Norway before the war adventures of the great powers abroad. It is worrying that representatives of several Norwegian parties, including the Labour Party and the Right, continue to repeat the pretext for the war – the genocide in Benghazi – a passport that has been rejected for the longest time, not least in the British parliamentary report and its thorough investigation of the war, where it states that the threat was not credible, that it was based on dubious sources and poor intelligence. It is hardly anyone today who is repeating the lie about Saddam Hussein's weapons of mass destruction, which was the pretext of the Iraq war. Then it should be embarrassing for Norwegian politicians to stand here today and repeat an equally appropriate passport for a genocide, a passport that has for the most part been rejected. We know that today. Finally, Mr Tybring-Gjedde: With a war justified in protecting civilians, it is necessary to examine whether, instead of protecting civilians, civilians ended up killing civilians. The question is whether there is one single good reason not to investigate which victims were required due to Norwegian bombing. It has not been examined. We believe that this should be investigated, because the war was justified by just protecting civilians.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e835	We have heard the representative Tybring-Gjedde make an appeal that other politicians hold appeals. Petter Eide has responded well, so I don't spend any more time on it. But I want to link a few words to the representative Ingerd Schou, where SV's comments and position in the matter are characterised as peculiar. It's time we stopped seeing it as something scary and wrong in itself to have an open and honest debate about Norwegian participation in the war. It's a problem for Stortinget when we don't have it. So is it wrong to have an honest review that also involves discussing honestly what went wrong? If it's wrong, we never learn anything. This aversion to an honest debate on Norwegian participation in the war must end. Unfortunately, this debate has also been marked too much by it, although we had a good starting point for an open and honest debate through the report of the sample. It is not unfair, nor against the forces out there, to debate the various wars in which Norway participates. On the other hand, it is a problem for all of us, including those who are sent to war, if not Norwegian politicians take it seriously by discussing this thoroughly. We have seen this in the context of Iraq, Afghanistan, Libya and Syria: very little debate. It may not be wrong to acknowledge any faults as well. SV has submitted a very long comment on this matter because we believe the history writing is important, and because it is important to learn for the future. We have underlined why we agreed to participate in March 2011 and why we refused to extend the contribution in May 2011. We could be involved in an operation for the protection of civilians, but not a war of regime change. There's the difference. And when the war evolved into it, we went in to pick up the planes home, just as the government did. It is consistent and consistent. I will finally give an explanation of vote. The SV Group will, of course, vote in favour of the five proposals we have put forward in the vote. As regards the proposals proposed by Red, SV will vote against the proposal No. 1 and 2. As regards proposal No: 1, we believe that our proposal for transparency is better, also because you can read the Red's proposals as if this with civilian losses have not been examined. This is some of the sample surveyed, and we have no basis for drawing the sample conclusion into question at that point. But we want, as I have explained in the debate, more openness around this. We shall vote in favour of Red's proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox It's in line with the program we've gone to elections on. I heard that someone thought it meant that Norwegian forces would stop on Svinesund. I believe that to the extent that they should, I don't think anyone in this room thinks they should cross there, but this is a question of whether international operations should be led by the United Nations or by NATO.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e850	We're going towards the end of what has been a very good debate, and I think it's a bunch of stuff that can say that we have a lot of lessons to learn from the Libya report from the Petersen selection. The evaluation is useful, and it's almost become a firm practice – and I want to say it's a very good practice we've added. Norway chose not to support the Libya Action in 2011 until a clear mandate from the UN Security Council was given. That's wise. While Norway stuck to a tight interpretation of the UN mandate and finished its mission after a few months, several major powers had ambitions beyond this. I agree with what the Petersen Committee says that this should be more problematic and communicated later. Openness around the basis of international law has also been an important debate. Regeninga Solberg had just that in connection with the fight against ISIL in Syria in 2016. Openness also has a bearing on this debate. There are clear indications from a Joint Committee and a desire for greater openness, and that is important. In my view, we can also learn from Denmark, which showed greater running openness about its military operations in 2011 than what Norway did. To the question of Grundlova: I actually think the representatives of Riveres and Kolberg add it up in a good way. There's a need to look at it. There are no indications about it in this case, but it is natural that the Stortinge returns to it in its own way. So two things in the end: the Petersen Selection highlighted the importance of a full checklist in the preparation of the basis for decision in the case of Norway assessing military contributions. The check list must include: point out sufficient situational understanding and exit strategy. This is a wise advice that should be followed in your own way. Then there has also been a debate on evaluation relating to the ISIL operations. ISIL has now lost its territorial control, but it is naive to believe that this terrorist group is no longer a threat. Judicial cooperation, stabilisation and reconstruction are needed. I assume that there will also be an evaluation of Norway's contribution to the fight against ISIL, but I find it necessary to instruct the government about it today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e867	The representative Bears Moxnes has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e872	There are some things that are not clear, as Storting's treatment of the report. One is when and how the government was told that our allies led us into a war of regime change, in violation of the UN mandate. We have also not been given any clarity when the government found out that NATO's allies on the ground, among other things. was a well-known Al Qaida commander. Nor have we been told what kind of information was exchanged at the meeting between Stoltenberg and Sarkozy on 19 March, where Stoltenberg promised Norwegian soldiers and F-16 planes to the war of France, which turned out to be a war for regime change in Libya. Therefore, Red has asked for access to government documents on the Libyan war, to meeting reporters, e-mails and text messages exchanged by Stoltenberg with its government partners to get them to join the war, and also to see the record of government meetings on the Libyan war. In our view, this matter has not ended until all the cards have been placed on the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e879	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e895	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e911	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that up to seven lines of reply are given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e920	I would like to start by thanking SV, who, through this proposal for a representative, addresses both an important debate and a debate that characterises the news picture these days. In our dialogue with all countries, Norway has to promise the meaning of human rights. The government is very concerned about the human rights situation in Saudi Arabia, and we have also noticed that Minister of Foreign Affairs Ine Eriksen Soreide has criticized the human rights situation in Saudi Arabia on several occasions. I'm glad. The Committee shares this concern. This applies not least to the imprisonment of human rights activists, to increased use of the death penalty and to a lack of respect for freedom of expression and the rights of women. It is very important that the authorities in Saudi Arabia are well aware of Norway's view of the critical human rights situation in the country. The Committee welcomes an independent UN lead investigation into the killing of Jamal Khashoggi. Today it is six months since Khashoggi was brutally killed in Turkey. The Committee believes it is right to release, immediately and unconditionally, all prisoners of conscience in Saudi Arabia, and to ask for the protection of human rights defenders in Saudi Arabia and beyond the borders of the country. Since this appointment, three women have been released against bail on 28 March. The release of the three women clearly shows that Saudi authorities are influenced by international pressure. This is underlined by the fact that she arrived shortly after Norway and a number of other countries had stood behind the very critical appointment of the UN Human Rights Council, which included. the requirement to release the women was met. Three women are loose, but unfortunately still eight women activists and a number of other human rights fighters are imprisoned in Saudi Arabia. In the light of what has happened, it is important that we are clear also in the future. Just appointed by the Human Rights Council shows how important this is. It is important that we are clear that we want release, immediately and unconditionally, of all prisoners of conscience, both women and men. Then there are also questions in this matter related, among other things. Our weapons code. Here I would like to point out that the Granavolden Declaration points to a review of this legislation. The majority have noted that the Granavolden platform underlines that Norway should have a strict, clear and stable control framework for the export of all defence equipment, with great openness, in line with Norway’s international obligations, and in the short and long term be reliable for Norwegian industry. It's important, and we're looking forward to the work that's now coming. Then there is a question about the state pension fund abroad. It has not been a foreign policy instrument, and it is imperative to approach individual countries for a task that this fund has. The size has just gathered around an ethical code, which has become better and better through several processes in this room. The Granavolden Declaration provides a review of this, and we look forward to it, just to be able to make new improvements, without pointing to individual countries in this setting. The lot SV has its own point of view on this matter, and I believe they will put them in this hall in a very special way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e939	First of all, I would like to join in thanking the proposers. It is an important debate. So I would say that the discussions we have in this room about the human rights situation in individual countries, very often follow a well-known pattern. Those who highlight the importance of contact, openness and dialogue often get accusations against themselves to conceal what is really Norway's economic or foreign policy interests, while those who call for harsh condemnation are often told that they are engaged in some form of moral pose without really being so much concerned about making actual changes. In reality, these balances between condemnation, penalties and isolation on the one hand and dialogue and transparency on the other are difficult. They are really difficult, and there is no fasit that suits all countries and all situations. In the case of exactly Saudi Arabia, there is no doubt that we are talking about a regime that completely lacks respect for fundamental human rights. The Khashoggi case, on which the rapporteur was involved, has rightly received a lot of attention, but it is by no means a unique case. There's no room in the few minutes I have at my disposal here, to go into the seriousness of the situation in Saudi Arabia, but torture, death penalty, prisoners of conscience, extensive female repression are punctuated. It happens with a backstop where Saudi Arabia tries to increase its regional power and take regional leadership. This is why it is important – and it is right – that Norway reacts sharply and gives clear notice both directly to the Saudi authorities and in multilateral forums about what we think about developments in Saudi Arabia. In the view of the Labour Party, it was also quite right of Norway, after the very alarming reports we received from the major humanitarian actors present in Yemen, to put an end to new licences for the export of B-materials or multi-use goods for military use to Saudi Arabia. I also agree here with the rapporteur's expectations for the review of the legislation to come. In terms of SPU, we have developed and strengthened the ethical guidelines for many years. The important thing about those guidelines is that they are the basis of all our investments – all investments in all companies in all countries. It's not that many years since we put in and reinforced the work on ethics in the SPU, so we're giving general guidelines on human rights to be followed up by the fund as a whole. The size does not go in and points to individual countries or to individual cases. It may, of course, be very difficult in some cases, but I think it's important. It is the line that has made it possible for the fund to withdraw — to take an example — from companies that have contributed to the building of the wall of international law on the West Bank, without being able to be interpreted as or seen as a political incited response to a single country. I'm concerned that the legitimacy and the impact of ethics work is weakened if we rock that it happens on criteria that are the same for all companies. That being said, SPU is moving into increasingly difficult parts of the world, and the Financial Committee itself has pointed out the importance of the fund entering a country where there is reason to be concerned about the human rights situation, that we have rules that are good enough, and not least that we have enough resources in the Ethics Council to make sure that we are not inside companies that we shouldn't be inside. I am not sure that we are today, and it should be a debate when the SPU message comes in just a short time. Finally, I would like to refer to the Workers' Party's special remark about the sanctions regime against people for gross violations of human rights. The setting of the Granavolden platform also indicates that this should be done within a common European solution. It's important, of course, that you have a lot of countries with you, but if you're going to sit and wait for everyone to join you, it can take a long time to get completely toothless. So we propose that we look at the possibility of a smaller group of related countries joining forces on such a mechanism. With that, I take up the Labour Party's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e962	The representative Marianne Marthinsen has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e967	On the right, we share the concerns of the proposers about the human rights situation in Saudi Arabia, and the Minister for Foreign Affairs has also repeatedly criticised the human rights situation in Saudi Arabia. On the other hand, it is dangerous for human rights activists about Norway to go too active alone in its criticism. I mean, and the Right believes, that we must join in joint statements with like-minded countries, so that we appear to be clear and strong together. A Joint Committee concludes that all prisoners of conscience in Saudi Arabia should be released immediately, and a Joint Committee also considers that a UN-led investigation of the killing of Jamal Khashoggi should be carried out. Some of the sub-proposals are relevant to several areas in the foreign field and others in the financial field. Both the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Finance have thus given written answers to the Committee. Some of the elements mentioned in the proposal also apply to exports of defence equipment. If one looks at the foreign policy considerations, the proposal for a representative is comprehensive and overall also difficult to reconcile with what we say is the government's prerogative in foreign policy. If all the proposals were to be followed, it would make it very difficult to have a political, but also a diplomatic relationship with Saudi Arabia at all, which does not serve Norwegian interests or Norway's commitment to human rights internationally. On the basis of facts relating to exports of defence equipment, Norway has a very strict export control regime. Norway has never opened up the export of weapons and ammunition, i.e. A-material, to Saudi Arabia, and I have also noticed that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs decided on 9 November last year that no new licences should be issued for the export of B-materials or multi-use goods to Saudi Arabia. In the field of fiscal policy, the Committee has also received a response from the Minister of Finance. In that letter, the Minister of Finance is clear that the two sub-proposals will extend already delineated guidelines for the State pension fund abroad, SPU, to such an extent that one departs from the broad consensus in the Storting that the fund should not be a foreign policy instrument. I also see that in the same letter sent to the Committee by the Minister of Finance, it is also said that the SPU's fund portfolio is continuously monitored by the Ethics Council, that this Council has been asked by the same Council of State to explain its work on human rights criteria for the fund management, and that the Ethics Council intends to carry out this evaluation during the year in which we are now involved. So, in the end, what the representative, Mr Marthinsen, mentions on the Labour Party's proposal to contribute to the development of a sanction regime against people for gross violations of human rights, and that a wish for feedback in the revised National Budget in 2019. I would like to point out that we very much appreciate the fact that the Workers' Party agrees with the Government's intention, which is also in Granavolden, but reminds us that that government platform is actually meant to apply even after we have received a revised national budget for 2019.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e982	Splits new Norwegian satellite antennas in Chile shall be used to detect illegal fishing. On Saturday they were opened by King Harald. By pressing a small green button, the king started the machine to download information from satellites. Mainly, the station shall be used for Earth observation and communication purposes. It also retrieves data from radar satellites, which also allows you to see even if it is dark, and when there are clouds. This is very well suited for marine surveillance and can be used to monitor boats and oil spills. Technology developed by Kongsberg Satellite Services, KSAT. KSAT is a Norwegian company which is a world-leading service provider for the reception of satellite data. KSAT was established in 2001 by Norsk Romsenter and Kongsberg Defence & Aerospace. Last year the company sold 750 million. kr. What does this have to do with adopting a clear policy towards Saudi Arabia? Not much, but it illustrates the context of politics – something I'm going to come back to. Human rights are in bad shape in Saudi Arabia. The country has a legal system based on Islamic sharialover, and as a consequence, there is neither equality, freedom of expression, equality, democracy or pluralism. The methods of punishment strictly follow the writings of religion and include both pissing and torture. Saudi Arabia also has huge natural resources and is one of the richest countries in the world. Rich and mighty countries often make rich and powerful friends. At the same time, when the country has strong political influence in the area, real policy is taking action. We may dislike it, but Saudi Arabia is an important political, economic and religious regional power. Geopolitically, the country is a counterweight to the Iranian regime. It makes the country an important partner for cooperation and dialogue. It is unwise and not constructive to build a foreign policy on what the world should be like. The reality is that we also have to deal with regimes that we don't like at all. Very many countries regularly violate human rights — not least for all countries that base their rule on Islamic laws. So what SV should have done was take a force to combat the lack of values of freedom in Islam, no matter where this reveals itself. There is no dissenting view in the Committee on Human Rights in Saudi Arabia. The Committee is set up to distance itself from the violations of human rights taking place in the country. The authorities of Saudi Arabia are well aware of this. According to our export control regulations, it has never been opened for the export of weapons and ammunition to Saudi Arabia. Exports of defence equipment other than weapons and multi-use equipment for military end-use, B-material, have been subject to thorough assessments. Since 9 November 2018 no new licences have been issued for the export of B-material to Saudi Arabia. That means that proposal No. 5 from SV, not applicable. Let me add: No defence systems or multi-use equipment of any size are produced and supplied by one company alone – nor Norwegian. Defence systems consist of components developed and produced by a number of enterprises in a number of countries. If Norway is selected alone in this field, as SV is constantly calling for, all the Norwegian defence industry will disappear. This is because we have to deal with the export legislation of the country that produces the main system and that combines it. We can of course choose not to sell, for example, a component to F-35 if the United States exports F-35 to Saudi Arabia, but that means that we are not getting the same component to F-35 when the aircraft is exported to countries that meet SV's criteria, because in this case the United States is not willing to set up more production lines to satisfy SV. It leads me to my introduction: Forced by the Norwegian defence industry to shut down, the many companies that have emerged as a consequence of the defence industry will not see the light of day. This would mean the loss of thousands of high-tech jobs, especially in industries that SV in other contexts believes are important, such as environmental technologies, communication technologies and – I guess – marine surveillance. High-tech is not created by generalists like us in this room, either by government transfers. The future is created, it is not adopted. With regard to the first three proposals, Norway has a clear voice. Norway voted, among others: together with the EU country for an opinion of the UN Human Rights Council indicting the serious human rights violations in Saudi Arabia. That's the first time this is happening. It is worth remembering that Saudi Arabia has a firm place in the UN Human Rights Council. I have noticed from the debate on Libya that SV has great faith in the UN. So it's the UN that allows Saudi Arabia to sit in the Human Rights Council. That the UN would conduct an independent investigation of the killing of Jamal Khashoggi will be like putting the goat in front of the oatmeal. I think it would have had a much greater impact on the status of human rights in Saudi Arabia if the UN had taken responsibility. Here SV could play a positive role. Instead, SV chooses to salute the UN on every occasion and raise the organization of world police.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e1010	Saudi Arabia is a cruel dictatorship, a totalitarian regime based on deep reactionary Islamism. We have seen the true character of the regime through a series of events that have shaken many people around the world in the last months and years. The regime executes foreign opponents. The Jamal Khashoggi case has shown us. The regime is whipping oppositional at home. The case of Raif Badawi has shown us that. The regime arrests women who argue for fundamental human rights and women's rights. But the press benefits, and therefore I'm going to reject what's a little premise in this discussion, that it's that we can choose between either a single time that doesn't work, or looking for dialogue to keep the regime inside of the heat and thus want to affect it. On the contrary, it shows that Saudi Arabia is sensitive to international pressure. They've been on the defensive since the killing of Khashoggi was revealed. The whipping of Raif Badawi was stopped because of the international pressure. Now some of the women activists are released. The problem is that this pressure has to be too much from below, from human rights activists, and too little comes from governments and states in Western countries, which could put much more pressure on Saudi authorities. It is a heavenly double morality when Saudi Arabia is treated differently from other similar regimes. It should have been a matter of course that the criticism of the Saudi regime was just as strong as the criticism of the Iranian regime – two regimes that have very much in common in both their ideology and their practice – but because the Saudi dictatorship is allied with the United States and sells its oil to the West, it is dealt with in practice differently. But this has broken up because several Western countries have taken a different stance on different issues. Canada has faced the regime clearly. Germany has done what we are asking for in this proposal: it has also stopped existing export licences for defence equipment to Saudi Arabia. In this proposal, we address a number of ways Norway can contribute to increasing pressure. We can do this by stopping existing export licences, not just new ones, although I think it is affordable that the government finally agreed. That's also true, given the role of Saudi Arabia in the extremely brutal war in Yemen. We need a review of Staten pension fund foreign investment in Saudi business to ensure that they are in line with the ethical guidelines and do not contribute to building up under the dictatorship. Then we have made two new proposals today, which are distributed in the Chamber. What we see now is that women activists are released – not all, but some – and those who are released are released under strict conditions: a high degree of control, reporting obligations, etc. That is why we want the Stortinget to make it clear to the government that this must be criticised, that Norway must clearly state that discharges must be unconditional. In addition, we ask for Norwegian support for the demand for independent investigation of the use of torture against political prisoners in prison. The Norwegian response is still too weak, and it is very disappointing, I believe, that the other parties stand together to reject all of our proposals in this matter, despite the fact that the proposals have received strong support from human rights defenders here in Norway and clear praise from Amnesty International, who had a mark outside this morning. In sum, there is a disappointing and inadequate attitude. Too many Western countries, including Norway, are enticing themselves in meeting with Saudi Arabia, where they speak loud and clear in meeting similar dictatorships that are not allied with the United States. That is not the position. We have to stand up to our principles in meeting everyone, and today's voting is a chance for the Storting to underline it. Otherwise, I register that the representative Tybring-Gjedde is – let's say – suspended in talking about SV today. It amazes me that the Party of Advancement has repeatedly expressed such a soft attitude towards the Islamic dictatorship of Saudi Arabia. It is not, as it were, in line with the profile of domestic policy. I think it's interesting. I'm addressing SV's suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e1029	The representative Audun Lighthouse has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e1034	In the last few days, there have been some good news from Saudi Arabia. Three women among the arrested human rights defenders are temporarily released from prison. I hope that the release will be final, and I also hope that more people will be released. There may be many reasons why the release is coming right now, but the fact that both governments and organizations have given great attention to these matters has probably contributed. Nevertheless, I think it is important to be aware and keep an eye on whether new arrests are coming in the wake of those who have just been released. Together with neighbouring countries, we follow developments closely, so that our response gives the best possible effect. The wishes of the human rights defenders and their relatives are important to us in this regard. However, these positive signals do not remove our strong concern about the human rights situation in Saudi Arabia. The government has a clear policy towards Saudi Arabia, and the Saudi authorities are very familiar with Norway’s view of the human rights situation in the country. Norway regularly addresses, including the need for a credible investigation into the murder of Jamal Khashoggi, the reports of torture and harassment of imprisoned human rights defenders and the use of the death penalty, to mention something. We do it directly with the Riyadh authorities, with the Saudi Embassy in Oslo and through multilateral forums as the UN Human Rights Council. During the hearing of Saudi Arabia last November, Norway made four recommendations: protect human rights defenders, in particular women activists and journalists; ensure that the law on terrorism is in conformity with human rights; elimination of discrimination against women, i.e. the so-called "warning system"; abolish the use of the death penalty; Our embassy in Riyadh is asking to take part in court hearings on human rights defenders that they get to know. When it is possible to access the courts, we are present. The embassy has also examined the possibilities of visiting the imprisoned women activists and tried to be present during the ongoing legal proceedings against them. Unfortunately, neither we nor any other country's embassies have so far been able to do this. In recent times, it has been difficult to access such hearings, and we have encouraged the Saudi authorities to allow international presence again at such hearings. Norway, together with 35 other countries, supported a joint installation on Saudi Arabia in the UN Human Rights Council on 7 March. This installation also encourages you to: to release the detainees of the MRs, protect journalists and cooperate with the UN Special Rapporteur for extrajudicial executions investigating the killing of Khashoggi. We look forward to the results of the study, which is expected to be presented to the UN Human Rights Council in June. We have already noted the comments of the Special Rapporteur this weekend. The Joint Action of the Council of Human Rights is in line with Norway’s policy of cooperating with the EU and other related parties on the human rights situation in Saudi Arabia. Our position is that in this situation we have the greatest opportunity to be heard and to be able to influence the situation in the country through measures that have wide international support. Supporting and protecting human rights defenders is important – in Saudi Arabia and in other countries. At the same time, the measures must take account of those who want to help and their wishes. Contact with foreign embassies, particularly Western embassies, may expose human rights defenders and increase the risk of represals. This is something we have regular dialogue about. A number of the charges against accused human rights defenders in Saudi Arabia are just about contact with foreign powers. Going out in public with individual items, for example: the names of individuals may, in certain cases, be harmful and directly dangerous both to the person concerned and to their dependants. We must respect that when we adapt our response. Of course, we do not want to weaken or endanger human rights defenders. That is why we also have close dialogue with our relatives and with human rights defenders and organisations to assess how we can best contribute. With regard to exports of defence equipment, Norway has been in a completely different situation than most of our neighbouring countries because we have never allowed arms and ammunition exports, i.e. A-material, to Saudi Arabia. When I presented the government's decision of 9 November in connection with the discussion on export control in Stortinget, I also explained that there was only one active B-licensing again, and it was a license that concerned the repair of border monitoring equipment. The Minister of Finance has answered the questions related to the State pension fund abroad, and I am therefore not going to go into them any further now. In conclusion, I am concerned to say that although there is good news from Saudi Arabia in these days, we must not be blind to symbolic actions that can cover a human rights situation that goes in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e1073	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e1079	As I was also in my post, we are waiting for this investigation on how Norway can contribute to the development of a sanctions regime against people for gross violations of human rights. In the Granavolden platform, this is inserted into a context where it is clarified that it will be part of a broad pan-European solution. And just so it's said: basically, we support that thinking, and there's no doubt that such an instrument will be most effective if it happens within a broad framework that many countries are behind. At the same time, there's a real balance: if you're going to sit and wait a very long time for absolutely everyone to board, it can take a very long time, and the content of it can also become a little toothless. So we have made a proposal, as I also mentioned in my speech, about the possibility of looking at cooperation with a smaller group of neighbouring countries to develop such a mechanism. I simply ask whether the Minister for Foreign Affairs will respond positively to the possibility of looking at it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e1084	That is basically what we have now started working on, because, as the representative rightly says, we depend on having more countries involved in this, and I am very pleased with the support that the Workers' Party expresses to the policy contained in the Granavolden Declaration. It's important that we do the necessary research, so we have a solid foundation to make changes. It would have little effect if Norway did this alone. The second is that we have to solve some challenging questions, such as: to deal with legal certainty guarantees. We must always do that in the context of sanctions. And the third is that we need to make some changes to our own legislation. For example, it is today that the regulation on penalties only deals with movements or states and not individuals. It's soluble. But I think it's a little optimistic to think that we'll be done with all these assessments until revised, which usually comes in the middle of May – that's about. One more month. But we are working on these matters and have a great interest in implementing this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e1089	Then I believe that I take the freedom on behalf of the Workers' Party to say that the deadline is not the most important thing here. What we're about to find out is whether or not you're going to look specifically at the possibility of doing this as part of a smaller group of countries, and I don't see that the Foreign Minister answers that in a concrete way. Will this investigation, when it comes, hopefully quite quickly, also have an assessment of that possibility?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e1094	As I opened my answer by saying, we now look at it concretely. We are now looking at the current discussion in the EU. We're looking at what's happening in the Council of Europe. We also look at the discussion that is taking place in Nordic countries and other related countries. Of course, it may be relevant to join a smaller group of countries, but I still think it is important that that group is large enough and wide enough to represent a factor. That's why the primary desire is to get a pan-European solution, and that's what we're working for. If it doesn't turn out to be possible, of course, we have to think about how we can solve it in other ways.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e1099	The fact that three of the women who have been given a lot of attention recently were released from bail on 28 March must be understood as having been influenced by the widespread international negative attention on these issues. The solution came shortly after the very critical opinion of the UN Human Rights Council, to which the Minister for Foreign Affairs explained and to which Norway has joined. That is why, I think, a good example is that the pressure against the Saudi authorities must take place in public space, and that silent diplomacy is not what affects this regime. That is why I wonder whether, in the light of this, the Minister for Foreign Affairs will place more emphasis on public criticism over silent diplomacy in the future. And then I wonder what the Foreign Minister thinks about the SV's proposal on Norwegian high-sounding support for the demand for independent investigation of torture in prisons.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e1106	I'll try to answer both of them in 1 minute. Firstly, I believe that the assessment of the instruments to be used is not a static assessment. This means that for one country, such as Saudi Arabia, there is also no assessment of the operation of one method or instrument in all contexts. I mentioned in my post that for some of the human rights activists there is a relatively high risk of being associated with Western countries or embassies. It means that naming them can mean a risk to them. We need to adapt our response based on that. We can't, even if we have a desire to be clear and naming, do it if it puts people in greater danger. That is why, together with neighbouring countries, we also adapt the response in such a way that it should be effective, while providing clear feedback to the Saudi authorities on how we assess these situations. On the second question, related to torture, I believe that the instruments we have include: through the UN Human Rights Council, including, inter alia: Through the recommendations we have made, we are quite clearly informed that we want clarity in the kind of questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e1115	It is very rare that the Stortinge discusses critical things about another country. This is actually quite historic. We have to assume that the Saudi Embassy here in Oslo follows closely the discussion we have today. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: The government parties vote in favour of SV's proposal, and it records the Saudi Embassy. How does she think they're interpreting it? How does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think the embassy interprets that the SV proposals are being voted down? Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think that the embassy will interpret it so that there is a type of Norwegian support for the regime in Saudi Arabia and their practice?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e1122	No, in no way – there is nothing in this debate or in the post I made, which gives support to the Saudi regime incarculating human rights activists, not in charge of journalists, having a war order, using the death penalty. Rather, on the contrary, there are very clear messages that have come from Norwegian authorities for a long time. They are very familiar with our policy towards Saudi Arabia regarding human rights. They are also very well aware that we want to have a dialogue on this, because we believe it is a way to try to change the situation in a positive direction. The reality is that the proposals that SV is promoting are already being implemented by the government. I do not think there is any reason to expect that neither the Saudi Embassy nor any other Saudi authorities will believe that there is anything other than the Norwegian political line that still applies, and I believe that the debate here today confirms that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e1129	We're going to hope that the Foreign Minister is right in this. I have to move on to a similar issue relating to the export of Norwegian B-material to Saudi Arabia, which fortunately has now been reduced. It has, however, been going on for many, many years. Has the Minister for Foreign Affairs any guarantee that the export of Norwegian B-material to Saudi Arabia has not been interpreted as aid from Norway to Saudi Arabia?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e1134	I think that's a rather difficult question to answer, because I can't get into the minds of the Saudi authorities. But it has, as the representative says, been exported B-material for very many years, also in the time SV put in government. A material — weapons and ammunition — has never been exported. I believe that is a very clear and clear message to the Saudi authorities that Norway does not allow the export of weapons and ammunition to Saudi Arabia. I think that's the message that is first and foremost perceived, and I think that Saudi authorities are also aware of the continuation, because those rules have been in place for a long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e1139	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e1147	It may sometimes be necessary, especially after hearing the representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde, to remind someone in the main hall of what human rights are actually for something. Human rights are about a minimum standard of how the world's country has defined human treatment. It's absolutely basic, it's normative, it's going on across different cultures -- it's a minimum standard. Nothing shall be accepted if it violates the minimum standard. In addition, human rights are enshrined in international agreements concluded between countries. The wonderful thing about these agreements is that they give both the right and the obligation to criticize each other. That is why sensible monitoring mechanisms and reporting mechanisms have been put in place to keep each other in mind in different countries. This is largely embedded in a multilateral system, in which Norway is a very active contributor – and that is very, very fine. In addition, it may sometimes be necessary for a country to directly criticise another country, a type of bilateral criticism. That's actually what we're talking about here: to what extent will the Storing instruct the government in a direct criticism of Saudi Arabia – outside the big system of monitoring and reporting Saudi Arabia? We in SV believe that this is of course very important. We have to remember that Saudi Arabia is now changing. Saudi Arabia has realized that the oil age is over – or will end in a very short time. They operate with a significant reorientation, and they are open to the international community in a completely different way than they have been before. So there's a window of possibilities for criticizing Saudi Arabia internationally. They are vulnerable to criticism, and they will listen to criticism. In addition, Norway has a comparative advantage. For decades we have built up a reputation in the world as a country with great authority on human rights. That means that the authorities in Saudi Arabia will actually listen to Norway, and that's one of the reasons why we have to use that opportunity. That's also how we've been selling arms for years to Saudi Arabia, and there's one of the most critical things about this. In the case of countries with which we trade arms, we need to be aware that weapons can be used to strengthen repression in that country. If we want something good and we want to protect the people of Saudi Arabia, or the people of other countries with which we trade weapons, one of the first things we have to do is to cut the arms trade to these countries, because the arms trade will be read as a support for repression, and the arms trade will also be used to reinforce repression.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e1162	It is said here that the oil fund is not and should not be a foreign policy instrument – and that is a broad consensus. But we can't pretend it's detached from foreign policy. Western investment in Saudi Arabia is part of the regime's strategy to improve the world's view of the regime and to cover human rights violations in the country. Of course, this is an intervention in foreign policy. The government is now following up the Storting's remark in last year's treatment of the SPU grossing-up message, as pointed out in the setting, and the government has also announced in the Granavolden platform that they are putting down a sample that reviews the ethical guidelines of the oil fund. We are meeting these reviews, and there are particular issues that it is important for the government to look at. Among other things, the Ethics Council’s ability to follow the ethical guidelines of countries where human rights are under pressure must be central, for the Ethics Council has, among other things, Drawn out Saudi Arabia as a concrete example, where the possibilities of obtaining the necessary information are more limited – just a country where human rights are threatened. It is that several authoritarian states are characterized by more authoritarian press, lack of independent NGOs and less functioning legal devices. The Ethics Council also states that the entry of the Oil Fund into new markets, such as Saudi Arabia, challenges the compliance of the Ethics Council with the human rights criteria in our guidelines. The Ethics Council writes inter alia:\t\t You can change the settings of ‘If the sum of the instruments of the Bank of Norway and the Ethics Council is not sufficient to ensure ethical risk management in particularly vulnerable countries, questions may be asked whether the requirements of responsible management are satisfied.’; This should worry us all. In view of this, we need to discuss in the spring’s discussion of the spillover of the oil fund and in the context of the government’s review of the reference index and the ethical guidelines on how to carry out ethical risk assessments in the future. Among other things, ethical risk assessment should be carried out before new markets are included. It cannot be merely a financial assessment. Positive screening should also be on the table – today we invest in all companies – and working for the worst to be sorted out. The option is to invest only in companies that demonstrate that they meet certain ethical requirements based on human rights and environmental criteria. These are going to be important discussions in the future, but it's also going to take time. In view of this, we are today promoting proposals for a review of the current investments we have in Saudi Arabia.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e1180	The issues that the representative Kaski raises here, I look forward to being addressed when we are just going to have a review of the ethical code. I disagree with the proposals that are being put forward here, which are going on in specific countries, but we must have a good ethical framework, which must apply to all countries. What I wanted to say in the end is that some of the proposals that come from SV are inconsistency, but when it comes to proposal No. 1, 2 and 3, actually, a joint committee ends up in their intention. When a request for a UN-led investigation into the killing of Khashoggi is made, the very intention of the proposal for it is included in the committee's position. What is involved in the unconditional release of prisoners of conscience is also pointed out by the Committee in its opinion. The same is true when we want to support and protect Saudi human rights fighters both in Saudi Arabia and beyond the borders of the country. I think it's important that that intention is made clear, because the vote is naturally different.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e1187	I don't have a big wish to extend the debate a lot, but I'll just make a final statement. As I was a little bit into it, the government believes that it is primarily through an commitment that we have the opportunity to influence. There's a line there's been a consensus in Norwegian foreign policy in almost every year, and that's exactly the commitment that gives us the opportunity to have the bilateral dialogue and give the bilateral criticism to Saudi Arabia, as well as what we're doing, among other things. through the UN Human Rights Council. When the representative Petter Eide says that he wants to instruct the government in direct criticism: firstly, foreign policy is the prerogative of the government, and it is rarely the Stortinget instructs in individual matters of that kind. But put that aside. It's not necessary either, because the government is already doing it. We use the arenas we have to criticise Saudi Arabia for the practice they have around human rights, and we use the opportunity to ask for visits and access both imprisoned human rights activists and to participate in court hearings when we get the chance to do so. Unfortunately, the reasons for this have been reduced in recent times. This applies not only to Norway; it also applies to other countries. But we're going to keep asking for that access, because we think it's important that the international community also follow up on what's happening in the hearings. The fact that there is a change going on in Saudi Arabia, there is little doubt, and there are several representatives who have mentioned here. It's a complex development. On the one hand, social, cultural and economic reforms are at stake. On the other hand, we see that there are still major challenges to the human rights situation and civil society, which are under considerable pressure. These two internally conflicting trends are also Norwegian policies to deal with in the way we do, by engaging and by being clear critics. Then the representative Eide says at the end that arms trade will be interpreted as support. But Norway is not trading arms with Saudi Arabia. We've never exported weapons or ammunition to Saudi Arabia, and we haven't issued any new licences for so-called B-materials or multi-use military goods. The signal we sent on 9 November last year, when we made the decision on B-materials and multi-use goods, was just that the unbridled situation and the negative developments make us not want to export B-materials or multi-use goods either. But as I said, weapons and ammunition have we never exported to Saudi Arabia. It is a policy that must be established under varying governments, both the Party of Petter Eide and the one in which I am now sitting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e1200	One can discuss what is correct terminology, but that military material can be used for military purposes, and that therefore one should not export it to regimes for which one does not have the sense, I think is a good basic rule, and it should also apply to existing licences for exports to Saudi Arabia. I did not take the floor to extend the debate – I have been told my story about Saudi Arabia and about what is being decided today – but I only have a brief explanation of vote. The Workers' Party is solely concerned with its proposal in the setting. We intend to vote in favour of that proposal when we come to voting – in addition, of course, to our own proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e1213	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e1229	At the request of the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that up to seven lines of response be given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e1238	This is a proposal for a representative dealing with the areas of both the Minister of Defence, the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Justice. In this way, I would like to welcome the Council of State for the Justice Area, Jøran Kallmyr, to the first working day in Stortinget. As the rapporteur on this matter, I would like to refer to the seven concrete proposals in the draft representative promoted by the representatives mentioned in the text above. They affect a range of societal response capacities and other field-related themes. Among them are the proposals Home Protection, the police, basic protection of protective objects, an unspecified effort to improve cooperation between the police and the defence, as well as an unspecified transport readiness for the police in North Norway. The Committee also points out that these themes, including the country's defence and justice sectors, as well as its preparedness and social security, have been addressed in a variety of investigations and policy processes over the past few years. There is reason to take a positive view of the increased public and political attention to issues related to country security and preparedness, given a worsening threat picture as a backtrace. Political debate and increased public attention to the country's defences, police, preparedness and social security have also given increased public awareness of the field, as well as higher political priorities of society's ability to protect. The Committee stresses that this is a good that cannot be taken for granted and that these are areas that must be worked on every day. Now I want to move on to something that another majority of the committee, consisting of the government parties, points to a number of areas. They indicate that Home Protection has never been dimensioned to protect society’s overall portfolio of shielding infrastructure at the same time, and that priorities related to which features will be secured will be situational and dependent on the threat in question. It will be up to the head of defence and the defence to give priority to others, so that the strengths on the basis of operational assessments provide overall the best response in the current threat scenario, and thus also the best and strongest defence of the country as a whole. The above-mentioned majority also emphasises that the Home Protection system should remain nationwide, but that the security policy situation calls for increased involvement in the Home Protection system in North Norway. There is also reason to recall that the government has a clear commitment to the Heimevater in the north, including that units in the north should be equipped with heavier weapons, such as light air protection and heavier pan-server weapons. Police personnel have increased significantly, with nearly 2,800 more employees since New Year 2013, of which about 1,650 are police trained. It underlines that more than 1,400 police posts have been assigned to the police districts. There is also a large-scale communication on police capacity and competence needs. It is necessary to assess whether the best way to make use of the overall economic and human resources of the police is to make the target of two police officers per thousand inhabitants per police district. The crime scene has changed dramatically in a few years, and the police reform therefore reorganises the police so that it is better adapted to today’s crime scene. Traditional mining crime has partly moved from the streets to the digital spaces, across national borders, and it is therefore necessary to streamline police resources to areas where police need to deal with these kinds of challenges. The majority of the Committee suggests that some police districts will necessarily have more staff than others, relative to the population and the extent of crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e1257	The most fundamental responsibility of the Norwegian people is the responsibility for the security of Norwegian citizens. Here, home security plays an important role. It might not be a good idea when you look over the hall and how few people have signed up for five-minute posts in such an important matter. Obviously, few parties see Homeland as important. The National Audit Office's report on object protection revealed major weaknesses in preparedness in Norway. During the hearing at Stortinget, the police director made it clear that the police are expecting support from the Defense on about 25 p.m. by several hundred objects. At the same time, the Riksrevision has revealed that Home Security will not have sufficient capacity to secure and protect all civil and military key objects. This means that Norwegian government powers will not be able to secure all objects that the police have planned to secure with the support of the Defense in armed conflict, when armed conflict threatens, or when Norway's independence or security is at risk. The questioning of the Chief of Home Affairs during the hearing of the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs also made it clear that Home Security, with the number of soldiers today, is not dimensioned to secure all objects at the same time. It is paradoxical that, in a more tense security policy situation, Landheimewert has been given more responsibilities, as well as fewer soldiers. The ownership of the Home Office with local knowledge and access to the services is vital to ensure territorial control throughout the country. A well-functioning home protection system, with enough volume, is particularly important in a situation where the army is significantly reduced. by converting the 2nd battalion into so-called mobilization-based. It's the Home Security Sol Data that has the best knowledge of the normal situation in their home. In this way, they have a particularly important task in hybrid threats situations. They want a system of alerting irregular conditions, and we really want to be around the country. There is now a study of Homeland Protection at the FFI. It is not reasonable to carry out further cuts in the number of soldiers in Homeland until the study is completed and the political assessments of him are made. Norway is in the world with the second longest coast, just turned off Canada. In reality, along the coast zone, we now have only two capacities to intervene – the Inner Coast Guard and the Coast Guard Command. Both capacities also have other tasks, and they are not sufficiently robust to replace the capacity of the Maritime Protection Agency. The closure of the Sjöheimeverterung was and is wrong. Perhaps that's why the previous Homeland Council is looking at the possibility of setting up four maritime response forces again? We should rather call a spade for a spade and honestly say that the closure of the Sjöheimewert was a big mistake. Hence, a re-establishment of capacity is required. The preparedness in Norway is very poor. The Home Office shall have territorial control in Norway through its mission. They're supposed to be everywhere, always. We have to realize that a home protection of 40,000 soldiers without a maritime shelter is not robust enough to solve the mission we expect in this room. It's our job to make sure the defense has the capabilities they need. The size must take that responsibility. With that, I'll take up the suggestions that the Center Party has on its own, and they're a part of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e1280	The representative, Liv Signe Navarsete, has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e1285	I refer to the position of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence to the proposal of the Central Party, if necessary, to strengthen the Home Office and the police. The original proposal for a representative consisted of seven proposals, while three further proposals from the minority were put forward in the vote. The proposals extend far and concern Home Protection, the police, basic protection of protective objects, an effort to improve cooperation between the police and the defence, as well as defence transport preparedness for the police in North Norway. The representatives refer to the National Audit Office’s review of the follow-up to object safety. So the size is well known about the matter. The National Auditor’s opinion is that the Defence’s project for basic protection of the displayable objects is under way. Furthermore, the National Audit Office states that the Ministry of Justice and Defence and the Ministry of Defence have improved the follow-up to police and defence efforts to secure and protect objects through the use of security forces. I would also like to highlight how the government has facilitated the enhancement of the operational capability of Home Affairs. The government prioritizes the follow-up to the findings made during the National Audit Office's object protection investigation. We have opened up for a maintenance of the work on the basic protection system by putting it off about 180 million. kr for the purpose of 2019. Home Protection was strengthened both in the revised national budget for 2018 and in the 2019 budget, among others. with a view to improving the capability of the Home Protection System to protect objects. Although there have been clear improvements since the National Audit Office’s compliance audit of object protection in 2015, the government has been aware that there is still a lot of work to be done before the hedge in all areas is at a satisfactory level. The National Audit Office considers that there are still significant deficiencies in the object protection and has made four recommendations to the Ministry of Justice and Defence and the Ministry of Defence. In line with the treatment of Innst. 88 S for 2018-2019 to Document 3:11 for 2017-2018 will return to the Stortinget with a comprehensive follow-up plan for the recommendations, including the timetable for implementation and expected expenditure related to the revised national budget for 2019. The representatives refer to the capacity of the Home Protection Agency for object protection in the proposal. I am referring to the fact that during the hearings on 27 August and 22 October last year the Stortinget was briefed on the capacity of the Home Guard. The head of defense and the head of Homeland Security informed that Homeland Security can secure both the key objects and the objects with pre-planned assistance to the police. If, at the same time, the Home Office also has to solve the width of its military mission, which includes far more than object protection, this will naturally have to be prioritised and balanced against the capacity of object protection. In a security policy scenario, securing the key defence objects against military threats will normally take priority over the defense's assistance to police object protection against criminal threats. This is in line with the National Audit Office’s reference to the challenges of Home Affairs to both secure all the listed objects and at the same time fulfil its other tasks. Securing the key objects of armed conflict, including civil and military objects, is a design factor for Homeland Protection, while securing the items on the list that the Defense receives from the police is not dimensional. However, this should not be understood as meaning that the Home Security will not be able to secure both the key objects and the objects that the police have pre-designated for military security assistance. The government follows up the leaders of the Storing and bases its operational assessments on the Chief of Defense and therefore cannot see that there is a basis for proposing to stop ongoing change processes in the Home Security. The government believes that there are a sufficient number of soldiers in the structure and will not propose to further increase Homeland Protection to 45,000 soldiers. The government believes that the capacity for securing sea-side features is maintained in the overall capacity of the Defence Agency and cannot see that there is a basis for restoring the Sjöheimewert. Cooperation between the defence and the police has improved, and the government facilitates further improved cooperation between the police and the defence. The defense will maintain helicopter transport readiness for the police in North Norway until a permanent compensation for the emergency response is in place today. The Ministry of Justice and Defence is now working to identify alternative solutions to this preparedness. As I said, the government will return to Stortinget with a comprehensive plan for the follow-up to the National Audit Office's recommendations on object safety, including the timetable for implementation and expected expenditure resulting from the National Audit Office's recommendations. This will come back to us in the context of the revised budget for 2019.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e1310	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e1315	In the budget for 2019 and in response from the Ministry of the Grand Duchy in relation to this Document 8, the Minister of Defence wrote that the length of the annual training and exercise for both command and crew should be increased to the same high level as is already established in HV-16 and HV-17, i.e. six days for soldiers and nine days for command. There is a need to increase the amount of training in the area structure, and one is well aware that it is right. But then the question becomes to the Council of State: Is all the areas of the Heimevernet training equivalent to HV-16 and HV-17 in 2019?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e1320	The ambition is to increase the exercise frequency for all the areas, just like what we have in HV-16 and HV-17. If you reach it for all the areas, you'll have to answer a question. The ambition is there. Then, in our bet, there are several things that have to be done to get the Home Security lifted. We're doing things to recruit more officers – there's a lack of law and order in Homeland. We're doing something to educate more commands. We've put in extra funds to increase that part of the strengths. We're doing something to complete the plans around, so we're absolutely sure that the areas we have are going to have a good plan to practice. Then it can happen when we write the status after 2019, that there are areas and districts that have not reached the capacity that we are ambitious about. We'll see that, but the ambition is to raise all the districts to the level we have in HV-16 and HV-17.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e1329	I thank you for your answer. Neither in the budget nor in the letter to the Stortinget is there any reminder that one should see if a thing is going to achieve this goal. It says - I can quote from the letter here, I believe the text is about the same in the budget: ‘The extent of training and training in the area structure is increased by increasing the number of soldiers present for annual training, while increasing the length of the annual exercise and training for both command and crews to the same high level as is already established in HV-16 and HV-17.’» It's quite understandable, but the information that the Center Party has received tells me that very few, if any, have planned this. Then the question is again: does the Council have control over what he has written in the budget and in the letter, and at least it applies 90 pst. of the areas? When this is so clearly typed, you must expect that this will also be followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e1341	Yes, I have control. That's a clear ambition. We've handed it over to the head of defense. The head of defense has – I suppose – handed it over to the head of Homeland Protection, who is going to implement these things. So we know that in any case it's when the year is over, we're making up the status. Our ambition is clear. Home protection needs to be harnessed to increase this training. Then it may be that there's a signal coming from some district manager or some other district manager about something else, but it's that my initial letter goes through the head of defense, who's responsible for delivering in terms of these things. Therefore, I have said that we have described a clear ambition, we have allocated the money to it, and then we expect the head of defense via the head of Homeland Security to implement what we want.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e1349	I thank you again for your answer. Money is a keyword here, which is usually both in different parts of the Defense and in other parts of our society. That's the question -- I'll be very brief: Is the Minister of Defense sure that one has financed what has been imposed on one has given the Home Guard to increase the training to the same level as HV-16 and HV-17?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e1354	We've asked the head of defense what it costs to increase the exercise to that level. We've got an answer to what it costs, and we've said, OK, here's the money. Then we expect it to be done. Then we'll get reporting along the way if that doesn't work out. I have not received any indication that there is not enough money to do so, but, as I said in my answer, Home Security is facing major challenges. We're going to reverse a shelter that had many crews in the archive, but fewer crews dressed up, fewer crews trained, and fewer orders to run teams and troops in the Homeland. We've captured that part. We also spend money on training the Home Protection Command so that it is possible to carry out these exercises. We have allocated money to it, and we have allocated the funds they have asked to increase the exercise activity – and then we expect them to be able to do it. Fasit we don't get until 2019 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e1359	I thank you for your answer. It's always so that things can happen, but it's also important that the visions you have, which I thought were a play without going on, were actually not just an ambition, but that one should achieve them. Then there is the next question: If there were to be a signal from the Chief of Defense that one does not have sufficient means to achieve the training that the Minister of Defence has ambitions, will the Minister of Defence ensure that one follows with sufficient means in the revised national budget – insofar as it would not prove to be it today?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e1366	Yeah, that could be an opportunity. Another possibility may be that we ask the head of defence to redispatch – if we believe that it must be given so much priority in the face of other things. But now the head of defense has not come to me and said he has too little money for this exercise. The head of defense has said about what he needed, and he has received the funds. And then we'll see what we get in the course of the year.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e1371	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e1376	This government has made a significant effort on the Norwegian police force. In line with the government’s objective of achieving a police coverage of two police officers per thousand inhabitants at national level during 2020, funds have been allocated this year to recruit newly trained police students. Police staff have increased by about 2 800 yearly works from the end of 2013 until February 2019. Of these, there are 1,650 police posts, about 1,450 of which have been assigned to the police districts. Police coverage has now increased from 1.71 in the fourth quarter of 2013 to 1.95 in the fourth quarter of 2018. So we're in the right direction to achieve the goal of two per thousand. The draft representative asks the government to set the target of two officials per thousand inhabitants at district level. As stated in the opinions common to the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Justice on this Document 8, we believe that setting a staffing rate of two per thousand at district level is not appropriate. The reason for this is that crime rates vary greatly between different districts. It is important that we have districts that have a crew that are adapted to the challenges facing individual districts. This also has a cost effect. There are some districts that have a significant overpressure in terms of two per thousand, but if all the others are to be raised at that level, it has an annual cost of 2.4 billion. kr. Then you have to ask yourself, can this money be used in a better way? I therefore believe it is a little wise approach to change the objective of applying to the district level. We should go away from managing resource efforts, actions and activities, and rather facilitate police and police officers to make use of resources as efficiently as possible. We must control priorities and objectives. It's a more strategic and long-term police management. Furthermore, the representatives ask the government to ensure that funds are provided to support the work and to ensure better basic protection of protective objects. The State budget for 2019 made it clear that the Police Directorate has put in place a comprehensive plan of permanent and temporary measures for object protection, the aim of which is to close the deviations identified by the National Audit Office. The five-year plan, which also includes the securing of operational centres not classified as shielding objects, is cost-implemented to 300 million by the Directorate of Police. kr. The plan prioritises the displayable object and the Police Directorate plans that the residual risk of the current shielding object will be within the provisions of the new Security Act, as assessed by the Police Directorate, during 2020. Following the government's proposal, Stortinget decided to increase the allocation to the police for object protection work by 171 million. SEK in 2019, where 142 million. NOK of them is linked to the plan that I have just mentioned. Twenty-nine million. kr goes to redundancy measures, in addition to funds related to data centres, PST and a new emergency centre. With regard to strengthening police and defence cooperation, this is an area that has been a high priority of the government. The cooperation is good, which has also been confirmed by the police director and the chief of defence, at the latest in the hearing on object security in August 2018. The agencies have a good dialogue, regular meetings and carry out several exercises together where the focus is on getting better cooperation at all levels. I want to bring forward the annual exercise Nordlys that helps to increase cooperation and counter-terrorism efforts for both sectors. Finally, I would like to say that with regard to the transport readiness for the police in North Norway, I refer to the current system where the Defence Bell 412 helicopters at Bardufoss, which have an hour's response time for police use, are to be maintained until another system is in place, and we are working on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e1395	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e1400	First, I would like to congratulate the new Minister of Justice on his appointment, and I look forward to a good change of words in the main hall. The Minister of Justice put great emphasis on the fact that there have never been any more policemen, and that things are good in Police Norway, but I feel that every day is seen quite differently from the local police stations. The police coverage is becoming two per thousand on a national basis, but we propose that this should apply at the district level precisely because there are many police districts that are very struggling with manning. I want to take an example: in More and Romesdal, the police coverage went down last year. The figure was 1.50 per 1 000 inhabitants in 2017. Last year it went down to 1.44 per 1000 inhabitants. Is it so to understand that the Minister of Justice is satisfied with the police coverage in More and Romesdal?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e1409	Thank you for your congratulations. It is that we have strengthened the police quite a lot throughout the country, and there are great variations from district to district in how many police people you need per thousand inhabitants. For example, Finnmark has the best coverage, and that is because of the special conditions with the border with Russia. Oslo also has a coverage that is well over two per thousand inhabitants, and that's because of relationships that apply in Oslo. We also know that if you don't have a good police coverage in Oslo and get rid of the problems that are there now, that crime will spread to the rest of the country. It is also very important that we give police officers and police the opportunity to assess for themselves what kind of competence they need in their territory. We have now seen that crime has also sunk into what we call the data underworld, and that it has become some kind of infrastructure for criminal activity. Then it's not certain that the education you have at the Police College is the right one to get hold of that kind of crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e1418	According to the trust-elect of the Joint Association of Police in More and Romesdal, the local decline in police coverage is due to the need to keep 55 positions open in 2018 due to economics. It was simply too bad for the economy. Among other things, she spoke out.\t\t You can ‘The fact is that the police district is facing a very difficult economic situation.’ And on the other hand, ‘The allocated budget is simply too low to operate the police district.’ The story that she, as a trust-elect and a representative of the police in More and Romesdal, has is very different from that of the Ministry of Justice, the Minister of Justice and the Government. Does the Minister of Justice think it is such that the trust-elected and the local police have a wrong view of what the situation actually is in his own police district?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e1433	Now, we've commented on the question of whether the target is going to be two per thousand across the country, or whether the target is going to be two per thousand in each district. We haven't given a list here of how things stand in each and every police district. My point was that it is not appropriate to set a target for each police district at two per thousand, because there may be different needs in the different police districts. That's what we were invited to comment on in the post I've made, and that's why I've focused on the increases that have been at national level.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e1439	It is positive that the Minister of Justice does not reject the fact that there may be too low staffing in any district, for I have felt quite strongly rejected by his predecessors. But when he says that there is only the target he is commenting on here today, and that it is not necessarily appropriate to attach two per thousand in each police district, he still believes that there are too few police officers in, for example. More and Romesdal, and that 1.5 police people per 1,000 inhabitants in More and Romesdal are too low?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e1446	I don't think it's right for the Minister of Justice to stand here and consider what kind of target each district should have. That's exactly what was the main point of my speech, that these must be police assessments. I think it's a little scary that we politicians should sit and decide how many policemen per thousand inhabitants there should be in each district, precisely because the needs vary from district to district. There must be professional assessments on the basis of how many posts you need in the individual police districts, and we must budget as much as we can.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e1453	I fully agree that there must be a freedom in each police district to make funds available and where employment will be made. But it is a fact that there are many police districts that have to keep jobs out because they don't have the money to man them – that is, it's really an economic issue. We have from the opposition challenged the government on this many times, that it is a very stressful economic situation that in turn makes there too few police officers in many police districts. But now the government is reaching the goal of two per thousand inhabitants on a national basis, and then they say they are satisfied. Is it true that the Minister of Justice believes that there are, in fact, enough police officers throughout Norway when the target of two per thousand inhabitants is achieved on a national basis?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e1458	There's one thing I'm never going to say, and that's that I'm satisfied, because it'll be a continuous goal at any time to improve the police. We are now in the midst of a very large and demanding police reform. We're going to make sure that it's implemented, and I think you have to work hard all the time to improve the police. When I have commented on the question of two per thousand in each district, it is based on the assumption that it is not certain that the new resources to come to the police are necessarily people who are educated at the Police College. This may well be the case in the future for other types of skills, such as computer science and engineering, in order to solve tomorrow's crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e1463	I would also like to congratulate the Council of State and hope that we will have many good debates in the future – we are both from the valley of Rome. A lot has been mentioned now in the sequences on both Finnmark and target numbers that we see. Finnmark has large distances and also needs a lot more policemen per thousand. The Council of State stating that reaching a target figure of two policemen per thousand inhabitants will cost 2.4 billion. kr, and that the council does not want to continue working on it. It's too expensive. I wonder: in what way will the Council of State ensure good police services in the districts if one is not able to increase the budget – for example. in More and Romesdal, which is now in the jumbo place, where we see that trust elected by trust is very critical of it?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e1472	I have not said that we are not willing to increase the budgets. On the contrary, we have increased the budgets of the police annually. But what we've commented on is whether it makes sense to have two per thousand as targets in each district. I don't think that makes sense. This does not mean that you should not be in favour of any reinforcement of the individual districts, but I think it would be unwise to bind the police to have such a standard of manning in each police district, because there may also be other types of resources. If you, for example, would have used 2.4 billion. kr on strengthening the police, it is not certain that having the target number two per thousand in each district would be what had given the most effective result.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e1477	Today, we see that the police around the district have to outlaw people in civil positions, and then the police are assigned to the positions of their own and do civilian tasks. It was the minister now, that it is important to have different competences within the police and not just police. How does the Minister see that districts simply need to use policemen to do civilian tasks? Does the minister want to do anything about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e1482	I have to admit that it is a little difficult for me in the day three to assess whether the police are now using police officers for tasks that administrative staff should do, but I think it is important that we give it the room for action to the police officers. I think they have an interest in making sure that those who are police professionals work as much operationally as possible in the field. It is a goal for the government that we should have the most visible and accessible police, and then it would be a pity to use the police officers for purely administrative tasks that can be used, for example. people with a different and more relevant type of education.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e1487	Replicate cord shift complete. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e1494	‘When the world changes and crime changes, the police also have to change’. — This is what the police chief in Agder, Kirsten Lindeberg, says in a chronicle in the Agderpost on March 5th this year. This is the backbone of why we are implementing a reform in the Norwegian police force. A lot of traditional crime has moved from the streets to the Internet. Sexual offences have increased by over 70 pst. in a few years, and child abuse has increased by a total of 180 pst. The much-discussed Dark Room case from Bergen required 25 policemen who worked on a blast for a long time to take this extensive assault network. This clearly demonstrates the need for reform and for the efforts of resources to address these challenges. The Central Party will have two policemen per thousand inhabitants in each district. Such a goal would hamper the police and the authorities in being able to allocate resources as needed. This is a Police districts vary in size and population. Crime is different from district to district. We believe that the number of policemen must vary according to where the need is greater. To hire the police if there's no need for it, will be at the expense of the major professional environments that we so badly need in order to investigate the crime we now see the most. Police personnel have increased considerably since we took over in 2013, and the target of two policemen per thousand inhabitants will be reached by 2020, and then it must be up to the police themselves to allocate the posts where they are most needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e1509	In the proposal for a representative promoted by the Central Party, it seems that Home Security has not been a priority, that the police have gone a little too lye and cold water, and that funds for ensuring security measures have not taken place. There has not been such a lot of effort on the police in many years, if it has at all been. The same is true of Homeland. Taking protective conditions seriously and allowing several hundred million is called taking responsibility, it's called exercising leadership. I'm also a little surprised when the Center Party sets the number of targets by district, as the Center Party wants. There is a risk of misallocation and mispriority of police resources. It's been said that it's going to cost away from 2.4 billion. to make it applicable per district. And then the Center Party hasn't taken it into its own budgets. It's not called leading. It's not called priority. It's called being populistic towards the districts. I cannot see that the Central Party has budgeted for this in its current budgets, not at district level either. Staffing police officers where there is no need is at the expense of, for example: allocation of resources to dedicated disciplines, such as working to identify large networks of abuses such as Dark Room, in the West Police District. As far as both the Right and the Government are concerned, we have taken the Riksrevision studies on the follow-up of object protection in the deepest seriousness. It is a priority task to strengthen cooperation between the defence and the police. Defence and police are now training more together and participating in each other's counter-terrorism exercises. From 2017 onwards, cooperation between the Defence and the Police became easier regulated in the new Aid Guidelines. It is now much easier for the police to ask the defense for assistance. It's important that we take object protection seriously. So let's do that. It's set at 450 million. kr to the Landwide Defense Protection Object Protection Programme. So for the year we're in, the government has set aside $180 million. NOK to support the program that I have now mentioned. I hope, and I also expect, that the government in terms of the revised national budget this year will also explain how progress is to be made in terms of the protective features.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e1521	It's important to be here. Local police in all of Norway means a lot to people. Today, it is an objective to reach two police officers per thousand by 2020, as has been said many times from the pulpit. Several police districts are far away from this target today, including More and Romesdal, where I come from, and it's not that it's not a need. Both trusted and more inside the police are now calling for more capacity. We see that research capacity causes serious issues to lie. Even if the national target is achieved, there will also be major differences between the different police districts, as we see it. The Central Party has proposed that the target of two police officers per thousand inhabitants be extended to cover per police district. However, I would like to stress that this does not necessarily have to be by 2020, but it is important to set such a target to ensure that the increase in the number of police officers benefits the whole country. While there is a need for more policemen, it must not be forgotten that there is also a civil addendum working in the police. The addition of ‘civil’ is an inconceivable operation, but behind it there is a great deal of expertise that is needed to ensure optimal functioning of the police. It applies to support functions that release time for policemen to actual police tasks, and it deals with, for example: on economists and ICT professionals in the competence necessary for research. There have been several places cut in civilian positions in the police to be able to assign more police officers. This has resulted in an imbalance in the police action, where more and more policemen are being set to do civilian tasks. To get the most police force out of the new police positions, no more police officers have to be added at the expense of civil positions. In order to carry out such a strengthening, the police districts of the annual State budget also need to be secured with sufficient resources to enable them to be added. The Central Party has proposed 500 million in its alternative state budget over several years. more than the government of the police districts. Such an increase will mean a significant strengthening of the local police and the economic space for action, and we will ensure that we continue to work on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e1534	In a way, I let myself be impressed by the Center Party. It's related to their ingenuity in promoting Document 8, where the undertone is telling how close you are to HV, and what you've done. But when you do it this way, you're very tempted to confront the same party with your own HV history. The representative of Navarsete said the government had put down the Sjöheim protection. Now most of the tasks in the Sjöheimevertet are transferred to HV, but what does the Center Party say that they reduced the number of HV districts from 13 to 11? What does the Central Party say that the input forces were reduced from 5,000 to 3,000? What does the Central Party say that the area structure did not practice in 2009? What does the Central Party say that they put down the HV reserve? And that's how I can keep going. Yes, let me bring this: What does the Senter Party say that they transferred the largest vessel of the Maritime Protection Agency, Reine, to the Maritime Defense? Well, let now the snow that fell last year, be the snow that fell last year, and then we see what this government actually does. The Home Office has a territorial responsibility. It takes the government very seriously, and therefore now the Home Office is experiencing a completely different policy than they did under the red-green. Let me exemplify: The 2019 budget has increased by 216 million. kr. WH are practicing far more now than they did before. HV gets new uniforms, new weapons, new connecting equipment and 290 new field vehicles. HV in North Norway are equipped with heavy pan-washers and light air protection. Then it was referred to as object protection. Then I dare remind the centre party that during the Trident Junction exercise, HV was assigned a number of new objects, where HV was given the responsibility to analyse, plan watchkeeping and implement watchkeeping. This was a task that HV carried out with bravour, and which is, in a sense, the last turn test on HV's ability to maintain object protection. So when you're going to tell the HV story, you have to go back a little bit and go a little bit by yourself, and then you have to be honest with the policy that's going on today. Then we see that HV has had a change of pace, which is due to the fact that HV has received far greater appropriations than they received earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e1560	If only the Right had been as self-searching as they encourage others to be, we might have made great progress in this hall. But I want to talk about preparedness and security as essential in people's lives, especially in the police. Government parties are currently more concerned with expenditure than with preparedness. The argument that ongoing assessments cannot be included in tomorrow’s action shows that the government is potentially making hasty assessments. The National Audit Office and several peer reviews and feedback suggest that reorganisation and under-financing do not deliver good results. We need more operative police. Response time, prevention and preparedness are equally important throughout the country, which unfortunately today’s government does not see the value of. The unfunded police reform contributes to a large budget deficit in several police districts. Police are struggling with capacity problems. A large number of cases, even with a known perpetrator, are being hospitalized. This troubles the employees, who have an inherent sense of justice and a desire to do a good job. Fewer offices where most people can meet the police all over the country make it even worse. The government of Solberg delivers on centralisation and degradation. If we are to increase preparedness and a safer country, we need two policemen per thousand inhabitants per police district. Government parties point out that such a distribution could give wrong distribution and priority, but this is a deliberate priority of increased efforts across the country. In the Central Party's alternative state budget, there was a total of 650 million. to increase staffing and police border control in addition to the government's proposals. The government parties and state councils point to a variety of crime, which in turn gives a varied number of policemen. This point undermines the need for continuity and the value of experience, as well as the cross-border cooperation of districts and agencies to resolve issues across the country. Or does the Minister of Justice think that the police in More and Romesdal will receive assistance from Finnmark if necessary? Or the Inland of Oslo? The capacity, according to the Central Party, must be up in all police districts. We want a police force that is able to prevent, enforce and help people and businesses. They are part of the overall efforts of society to promote and strengthen the legal security, security and general well-being of citizens elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e1573	The representative Foss opened his post by saying, "When the world changes, the police have to change." Yeah, I totally agree with that. The police must follow in time, like everyone else. No one thinks Norway should stop. But the Central Party believes that it is not forward-looking to centralize the police and put down half of our officers' offices, because in Norway there are people living all over the country, and we believe that it should still do so in the future. A priority for police officers in all police districts and a police force that has the capacity to be present where people live is, in fact, also a change from today's situation, and that's a change that's forward-looking and good. Because that's how crime happens in every municipality. The government is trying to present it as if the world has changed, there's just an online assault and cases, and we don't need local police anymore. That's wrong. There are killings, abuses, violence in close relationships, disappearances, drug use, and burglaries – and this is done in all municipalities. There is no contradiction between having people who are experts in their fields, for example. cyber or assault against children or violence in close relationships, and having locally present police. Local police also play an important role in the fight against so-called new crime and the changing image of crime. So even though net crime and advanced crime have exploded, we cannot forget that there is both serious crime and everyday crime in local communities throughout Norway. Then the police must be there. The local police are in charge of prevention, they're investigating, they're in charge of intelligence. What's happening now is that these capacities are being built down, and the police are moving away from people. I can take an example: I have been visiting the police in many places in Norway, and one place I was told about a person who was working on prevention, who had been to a school to prevent and talk to the students and be there. The school had been informed of quite a number of conditions that could be criminal as the students had experienced, for example. online or on Snapchat. But it didn't have the police capacity to follow up on it because the investigation capacity was completely gone. We have been clear that the police must be given priority throughout the country, and I believe that the Minister of Justice should also be in the future. I wish him every success in that work!
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e1586	SV is in agreement with the Workers' Party on the proposal in the vote to have a thorough analysis of police staff and resource needs, and together with the Workers' Party and the Centre on a number of proposals, including: an important proposal to ensure police transport readiness in the north. I would like briefly to point out a note and a suggestion that SV is left alone in the setting. This concerns the follow-up to previous regional structure and intervention strength decisions. It is therefore the case that the Stortinget asked for a new political assessment of this for the Home Protection Agency after a complete professional assessment of the needs of the Home Protection Agency, and included in it: how best to ensure the security of the watchkeeping of objects in the Coastal Zone after the closure of the Sjöheimeverterung. We do not believe that such an overall professional assessment has been made. It is therefore necessary to address the issue of preparedness in the coastal zone. And if, hopefully, an overall assessment of this preparedness is to be found to be weakened, the government must promote measures that can strengthen it, including – we believe – a new assessment of the closure of Sjöheimewertel. Today, home security has weaknesses in operational capabilities. There are deficiencies in certain categories of material, as regards manpower and competence deficiencies. Therefore, SV in the vote has proposed to ask the government to ‘ensure that the number of areas ready for emergency is significantly increased in the future’. I will address that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e1599	The representative of the Audun Lighthouse has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e1604	The Chief of Defense chose a minimum solution when he presented a proposal for reductions in Home Affairs. It's been against the Center Party from the very beginning. The consequence is that the coast and south Norway have largely been down-prioritized. I want to say that there has been a sharp reduction in the last round, and it has simply led to an eradicating and decommissioning of the Sjöheimewert. At the same time, the FFI has now been entrusted with the task of carrying out a comprehensive professional assessment of the needs of the Home Protection System for manning, training and equipment to perform its tasks, as well as how the protection and watchkeeping of features in the coastal zone can best be ensured after the closure of the Maritime Protection System. The center party believes that it is turning this process upside down. This should have been assessed, of course, while continuing to have a maritime protection system with coastal zone capacity, which is an important integral part of Homeland Protection in order to be able to work together with the Landheim Protection Agency. There is no one who can say anything but that here there is a capacity that has been lost with the bath water. Now, when we think about stopping the cuts – and that's what we're proposing in this case: increasing the number of 45,000 men and restoring maritime protection – it's precisely because you want the primary tasks of Homeland Protection to continue to work out in a good way. If you go in and look at the key points and the Key Points Directive, you will find that a significant part of the key points have a sea side. It has been mentioned that others are responsible for this role, including: The Coast Guard Command and that they will establish in the long term e.g.: a boarding capacity. That capacity was in the Sjöheimeverterten, though not as pointed as one will get from professional soldiers, but there were soldiers who had practiced and trained on this. Those who had opportunities and were ship crews were experienced seafarers who were picked up in the local environment, who were supposed to have recruited ships and could carry out missions at a minimum price compared to what it costs to have professional soldiers. It has been chosen to ignore this, and then, in an investigation, you have to look at how to carry out the tasks that the Sjöheimewertel did in an excellent way. I really think you're going to have problems doing that in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e1615	Modernising the police cannot be the same as a reduction of the police – at least that is the clear opinion of the Central Party. But unfortunately, that's what the government adds up to. By modernising the police, we believe that the police should be strengthened throughout the country. There should be enough policemen present locally where people live, in addition to the specialised units that we are totally dependent on having both national and police districts. The government has taken a lot of steps to centralize the police. The number of police districts has been reduced and a long list of local county offices has been dropped. In addition, even more centralisation is added when the government tries to ensure the closure of several canning offices by having reduced opening hours and too low staffing to ensure that it is safe to keep open, instead of strengthening the remaining canning offices, so that they could develop further into the future. There has been concern from the government parties about the proposal of the Central Party when it comes to the relationship between civil and police positions. The centre party has always been quite clear that more policemen must not be at the expense of civilians, as it has actually done under the ruling regime. Now, the government has given priority to achieving the target of two police officers per thousand, which has led to a reduction in the capacity of many police districts in civilian positions or, at least, to a lack of civilian jobs corresponding to the increase in police posts. As you were a little bit in the line-up earlier, that leads to police officers being sitting and doing civil tasks, because you have to get things to go around. That's not how it should be at all. In January, there was a headline in Romsdal's Budstikke that was a question from a trust-elect in More and Rome'sdal police district. It said, 'Does the Minister of Justice really understand?' At that time we had another Minister of Justice, but now that we've got a new Minister of Justice, will I ask the same question: does the Minister of Justice really understand? That question arose in connection with the fact that the investigation capacity in More and Romesdal has been severely reduced following the police reform. At the police station in Molde, the main protection officer assessed shutting down the entire investigation department because the work situation was extreme for the employees. We can't have it like that in the future. That is why the Central Party has made a proposal for a real strengthening of the police and two police officers per thousand inhabitants per police district.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e1632	Where Emilie Enger Mehl left off, I just have to be allowed to continue, because we see the centralization going on in the police around. Especially in the districts, there are now many places around the country, so that there is little police force, and that the research capacity is weak. What we also see is that regular police tasks are transferred to another segment, the fire department, the PLIVO, while one is waiting for the ambulance. The municipalities have been given more tasks by the police and health services, which burden the economy of the municipalities. It's not in the pile. That is why the state must assume its responsibilities and strengthen the police also in the districts. There is a large majority that is very clear that the rest of the loner offices should be strengthened in real terms and not shut down, as one experiences today, with faster opening times and smaller resources. Then there's a lot of talk about Homeland Protection as an important part of coastal preparedness, and the fact that the coast and South Norway are down priorities is regrettable. Then I just want to mention that More and Romsdal also have a strategic location, at Setnesmoen in Rauma municipality. There were opposing allied forces during NATO practice, and then there was a clear need for near-defence in the coastal zone in my home area. The closure of the Sjöheimewert has weakened this capacity considerably, and this is unlikely to be important that we, as a nation, are engaged in strengthening, not weakening. At least we have to say that is regrettable. The central party will strengthen the Homeland Protection and restore the capacity of the Maritime Home Security. They have local knowledge, they know where this is to be done, and it is unlikely that one of them can afford to ensure national control over the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e1639	I'd like to quote a little bit more from the chronicle to the police officer Kirsten Lindeberg in Agderposten on March 5: ‘There are many who are talking down the reform of the police, but for Agder police districts, the reform has contributed to quality improvement in several important areas. 1st March is one year since we started up in Agder Police District with a new structure, with 11 new LEN and police station districts. Then we had spent two years preparing, and we made big changes to our entire organization. You're probably sitting with the picture that it's this near-police reform is about -- drawing new organizational maps and putting down some lumbarist offices, as well as removing some issuing sites for passports. Close-up reform is so much more. It has been absolutely necessary for the police to undergo a comprehensive reform. Today’s crime picture and the quality of the police’s work have been completely different in a few years. When the world changes and crime changes, the police also have to change. After a year of ‘new Agder Police District’, I would argue that we are on the right track.’ And on the other hand, ‘There are several claims that the near-police reform is the reason why everything is not working in the police. I do not agree with that. The reform has been absolutely necessary. It has already led to quality improvement in our premises. When, during 2019 and 2020, we get the resources we have been proposed and we get a little more time to be properly synchronised, we will deliver according to the reform’s intentions.’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e1661	It's far, this country, and Norway has one of the longest coastlines in the world. In this context, the government and the Workers' Party have found out through the long-term agreement that it is a good idea to put down the Maritime Protection Agency. There is a context that at least does not make sense for those who are out there and are going to run the daily standby. For many others, it does not make sense, including the undersigned. This, therefore, weakens Norway’s ability to maintain coastal safety, and it has a direct impact on the preparedness we can put in a crisis situation. The fact that Sjöheimewert is now actually proposed to be revitalised by the fact that Home Protection estimates that today’s maritime capabilities in Home Protection, i.e. the diving laws and coastal reporting posts, are to be fed to boat teams, small boats and maritime competence, actually shows that the bulk of the population has made the wrong decision. Here again, we have a professional community that believes that we need to establish the same competence as the Sjöheimeverterung. So it cost 80 million. kr in total in annual operation. It was a very cheap preparedness that gave many listening posts along the coast, and not least very much local knowledge. It's stupid that you take away. We see that the professionals believe that it was unwise, and very many agree with them. Thus, after the Sjöheimewert was closed, it was assessed that the department, or some of the capacity, would be replaced by drones. How to assess this is part of the studies to be conducted by 2030. But instead of possibly waiting to see if you had that technology ready, not least the possibilities to replace that local knowledge with drones, so the majority of the population chose to put it down. It's a headless decision, in the opinion of many. Chief Home Security has now stated that the Coast Guard should support Home Security in securing seaside objects – now we are involved in object protection. This means, in practice, removing the Coast Guard from its primary mission, i.e. managing, exercising authority and supervising the sea, including among others. fisheries. Then that capacity will be used to support Home Affairs, if we're going to base those statements. It does not strengthen Norwegian defence capabilities; on the contrary, it weakens the readiness and ability of us together to solve the tasks that we impose on the different units. Locally, we see more soldiers removed. Those who wish to be part of this contingency plan are required to resign. It's unfortunate, seen in the light of the fact that we need people who are dedicated, who are interested in this here, who possess local knowledge if the disaster and the crisis were to be out. We see that there is no majority today to get reintroduced.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e1674	Thank you to all the debaters who have participated in what has been a rather vital debate, even though some parties would not participate in it. It is rare to say that one is as honest as our new Minister of Justice – to close up with his office – was partly in his post, and not least also the representative Ingerd Schou in his post. She said that setting up a police force where there is no need, of course, is wrong. But where is the need not present, according to her assessments? When it comes to the so-called near-police reform, we have, in my area, Sogn and Fjordane, good to hear about the positive effects of it. The Directorate of Administration and ICT, Divi, assesses reforms at regular intervals, and they recently produced a report from which the Evening Post referred. It says clearly that the positive effects announced will not occur. On a national basis, it is a fact that the average number of cases resolved increases. In addition, police use longer time to deal with matters with special time-limits – violence cases, electoral cases and suspected cases under 18 years of age. But perhaps the most serious thing in such a national perspective is that the police have also failed to meet the demand for response time in actions where life is under threat or where there is a need for police intervention. This is what diffi says. They also note that these developments are taking place at the same time as the budget increases. That's right -- they've got more money, but where have they been spent? Is it bureaucracy growing? Is it here in Oslo that the gigantomania is increasing, as we have seen under this government, that it's escalating? There are only two out of ten in the police who think that this reform makes sense. Once again, what many of us in the districts said in front of the reform is documented in a report, namely that the near-police reform is a misleading name – and that is true. It's doubtful that one will take it over in the government, but Divi says that one only has to dampen the level of ambition. I heard the Minister of Defense say that one has ambitions when it comes to exercises and training in the Home Office. Is it also the case with the near-police reform that there are some ambitions? I heard a time when two police per thousand people would also apply to the area I'm in, but it's not in the vicinity of it. One can only try to call the police. Calls an operation center, as one did on an event at the top of the Gudbrand Valley, the Operation Centres of East Police Districts and West Police Districts argue about who should take responsibility. So the poor man who called and was the same. No, the near-police reform is unfortunately a failed project, and at some point the government has to take it over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e1691	The representative Emilie Enger Mehl has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e1696	To the representative Ingunn Foss: On 31 March, Dagbladet summarised the results of the police reform quite well: the police have slowed down; the procedure has increased; The confidence of the police is falling police are missing investigators – according to the police’s own capacity survey there has been an increase in the number of cases over three months, over the last three years; there is also a large increase in the number of facilities due to capacity I want to end the debate by asking a question: how long will it be said that everything will be settled only if the reform is settled? That's the answer we've been given in recent years, and now it's time to stop with that answer and take on board that the reform has a high price.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e1722	I very much appreciate the fact that there is a great deal of commitment in the Grand Duchy to home security, preparedness and police. A good input to such a debate is often to ask what tasks to solve, and then to solve those problems. When it comes to Home Security, we know that the problems are largely solved. We had a hard exercise in the fall where the Home Guard worked a lot with object protection. They solved all of the problems. The evaluation shows that there are some challenges, but it also shows that they were very competent for what to do. The tasks of securing the coastal zone have been transferred to the Home Office. So one section of Homeland Protection has been closed, but Homeland Protection has been given the jobs. So that's how technology makes it possible for us to solve these problems in a different way. Some representatives are surprised that the Coast Guard has been involved in maritime security, but this has been done for years: also used Coast Guard for that part of the task. Yeah, we're going to look at technology, we're going to look at the use of drones. That's one of the things we're seeing about the development of the Coast Guard Command. Boring is one, drones are the other. It's because these are technologically difficult tasks that it's problematic to enter a week a year to solve. You have to train, practice and be able to do it. This is about the subject. It can be a very good solution to see if the Coast Guard command can be part of it. Then, too, home security will evolve as the security picture changes. We're doing more with Homeland now, we're buying new equipment for Homeland Protection. The most important thing about a department like Home Protection – and I have said that several times in this room – is that those in the roll have clothes, equipment and are trained. It's not useful to point to a number and say that now we're safe, because now we have 45,000 – if several thousand of them don't have shoes, backpacks, uniform or the other stuff they need to be operational. Now we're rehearsing Homeland, now Homeland is an operational department. They get good feedback, they see what they're missing, and they've adjusted, so they get the right grips to get even better. And securing in the coastal zone is one of the problems they're solving. But it's also a problem that changes as technology comes to, as the activity changes. We see a completely different maritime movement pattern on the military side today than what we did just a few years ago. Of course, we have to practice and do that in a different way. We do that with the strengths we have today, and we develop that service every day.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e1735	The answer to a debate is rarely black or white, there is often a truth in between, and so I feel that this debate has also been. Because it's been made so that if you're not in favour of a staffing standard of two police-trained per thousand inhabitants in every single district, you're not in favour of a good police district. It's a premise we can't buy, because it's not a similarity between a staffing standard for each district and having a good police district. I am concerned that all the inhabitants of the country, of course also where my own family comes from, and still lives, should have as good police services as those in other police districts. This is precisely why it is so important that we ensure that all police districts have that competence, and that the Norwegian police have the competence to investigate not only today's crime and the usual crime we've become acquainted with, but also tomorrow's crime. Our children grow up with cell phones, where snapchat and other things are used to push each other. Then it is not certain that a loner's office that is open from 9.00 p.m. 8 to 16 is the solution. Then the solution is a better competence in the police to investigate these cases. If the Storting had adopted this measure of the Center Party now, we would all of a sudden have been in a situation where we had to find 2.4 billion. NOK to be used only for the number of police officers. What had happened was that there had been pressure on the districts that have an over-coverage in relation to this figure – that it has to go down there. But anyway, it hadn't solved today's challenges. For what is important now is to ensure that we carry out the police reform and introduce the necessary competences to the police. That is why we are going to present a big message about the capacity and competence needs of the police during the spring session of Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e1744	The representative, Liv Signe Navarsete, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e1749	A little comment to the State Council, Bakke-Jensen, who has transferred responsibility for securing the coastal zone to Homeland Protection: It may be well and good, but has the Homeland Protection got an increase in its budget? Yes, there are funds put in the budget to buy in that equipment that was sold out – one that sold out what worked very well – and to the people who worked very well, who were trained, and who would love to keep on the coast. But of course – the coast is far away from Oslo, and this government has gone on and on, and at the latest in today’s debate, showing how little they have in the Norwegian districts. So this is actually about putting a line over the Coastal Homeland Protection, but then the pressure has come, and one sees that this was completely wrong, because probably also the government party has its members who live along the coast, protested a little – and that's good. We need to state a little more that people live elsewhere than outside the big cities, and that they also need preparedness and security.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e1756	If someone is trying to create the impression that Home Security is a department that does a bad job, it's not like that. Home security is doing an excellent job, and they've done it for a long time. Now, trying to gain capacity with light air protection and reinforced pantyhose is great. When the Home Guard built up their forces of effort, when they did it a few years ago, it was a formidable boost, and it was also a promise that we could keep in the Home Guard good soldiers who had served gladly in both army, sea and air departments, and who also got a meaningful life beyond the five days of the year's training. When we in the Central Party want to increase the volume and keep parts of the capacities that we have described in this debate, we do so because we believe that Home Security is a cheap insurance. They use very little of the budgets in Defense. When we want to maintain the Maritime Protection system, we in the Center Party are also concerned that it should be an integral part of Homeland Protection and not an integral part of Maritime Defense, which it might have tended to be when it grew a little too much for a period of time. What's the whole point here is that we have to look at the capacities overall, and the effort forces on land and at sea need to be seen in the context. Most of the districts in Norway have a sea side. Everyone knows that Sjöheimewert did not consist solely of ship crews and coast reporting posts; it also consisted of people who had power status, who were good at their things. There were divers who had been in operational service as divers in other defenses, there were people who were drifting with drilling, who had done the same thing in the Marine, who had excellent competence and needed some maintenance training. These are the capacities that we are concerned with keeping the Home Office, in order to better solve the missions. In terms of object protection, there's a division of responsibility between the object owners, which can be both civil and military, and there's a division of what goes on in the police, and what goes on defense. That's exactly the sharing of capabilities that makes Homeland unique. No one has said to secure all objects at the same time, but those who want to secure must have the opportunity to train on the objects that they want to secure. Maybe they have a list of five. Those who have the most important have a list of one. That's the capacity we want to keep. That is what this debate is about.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e1767	The logical consequence of the speeches by the representatives of the Central Party is that the police reform should never have been carried out. It would have been an accident that could have brought history's judgment upon itself. I dare remember why the police reform was carried out. We had the Gjørv Commission, we had the police analysis, we had other analyses that had examined the Norwegian police's'reefs'. The conclusion was that the Norwegian police were dysfunctionally organized in the face of new crime. Despite the fact that the police had been budget winners year after year, they had not been able to translate this into better police services for people in town and country. So something had to be done. Then we have to remember that the Norwegian police are not just Länsmann offices and police districts. It's called the national response capacities. You'd like to have a taste for lumbar offices, but the lumbar grenade in the valleys is gone. Today there is fraud, online abuse – one knows the new crime. The former organisation and resource composition of the Norwegian police were unable to deal with the new crime that is now under way. I would like to recall what has been done to strengthen national response capacities. New police helicopters are being purchased. The current police helicopters are modified so that they can be fired from the air. All the police districts have got armored vehicles. The number of personnel, so-called IP3 crews, who should be able to handle sharp situations has increased from over 650 to more than twice today. The defense helicopters at Bardufoss and Rygge are set in one hour standby, as a direct follow-up to the Gjørv Commission. Drawing a gloomy picture of the Norwegian police is a way of spreading an uncertainty in the population and doing something about the glue between those elected by the people to rule, and those who are to see the outcome of sensible policies. It is up to politicians to contribute to security also through the way they speak. The downfall of the Norwegian police with which the Central Party operates is directly shattering. Any problem in the Norwegian police force cannot be attributed to the police reform. The Norwegian police have always had challenges, and the Norwegian police will always have them. The police reform must be evaluated. Finally, I'm just going to remind you of a fact. The hairdresser made a report some years ago that pointed out that there were 2,000 unsolved annual works in the Norwegian police force, related to inefficient organisation and dysfunctional management of tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e1782	When someone's talking about a snack, that's not what the Center Party has pointed out. We've pointed out the same thing as the majority of the civil servants out there say: you don't have any faith that the near-police reform will solve some of the challenges that, among other things, The Yard Commission pointed out. The Gjørv Commission did not point out that structure was the problem, but that it was management and culture that was the challenge – nothing about structure in that context. It is therefore a good idea to hear the comments of the representative of Elvenes here now. At the same time, I find it a little special that the new Minister of Justice – welcome here, otherwise – now announces the need for a new big message to look at police governance and competence. It was then, of course, part of the things that the reform of the police was going to solve. Now I hear that the Minister of Justice believes that it has not solved it, while the representative from the Right believes that everything has been resolved here. At the same time, professionals – those who are going to be involved in the prevention work, as one of the important elements seems to have to believe the reform of the government – have no faith that this reform will contribute better. The reform should ensure the presence of a competent and effective local police force. It has nothing to do with structure, but structure has become the government's answer, now that we see how resources are disposed of. It is well possible that there has been a change in the way crime is done, but it does not necessarily mean that the place where crime is taking place has changed. There is a great deal of crime in all Norwegian municipalities that society wants to combat. It's not that everything has suddenly moved to Oslo. One of the objectives was to develop good professional environments, as the professionals out there say that this reform does not. The instruments of close police reform are not linked to the stated objectives of the reform. You get the opposite effects. A large number of policemen doubt that this reform will have any effect. The police are engaged. Security and preparedness are of the important things that a nation-state can do. It is therefore really appropriate to have a proper debate on what measures and instruments people out there, both professionals and citizens, want to have in place to feel secure in their everyday lives. Unfortunately, this government's reforms do not respond to this. I note that, even before the near police reform – as the previous Minister of Justice was very busy saying – the new Minister of Justice, as we have received, says that there needs to be a further reform, because the reform that has been launched has not answered the issues that, among other things, have arisen. The Yard Commission pointed out.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e1796	Finally, I would like to thank the representative, Mr Fasteraune, for the last post he made, because it was really good. It determined that standing in old, depleted structures has a cost; it is wise to try to look further. It concluded that technology can be a solution to solve problems in a different way. He even responded to my invitation to go into the debate with the question: What things? And if they don't work, what can we do to make it work? That was very good. Thank you, Fasteraune, that was knowledgeable too! Take it to the Central Party Group Meeting and continue the debate there. This is going to be great in the future as well. Thank you!
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e1803	There was something about that black-and-white paint – and it continues, as far as I can understand – from the Centre Party, because it is not that this Minister of Justice has now launched a new reform. This Minister of Justice has only referred to what is stated in the opinion on the 8th case, on page 5. There the former Minister of Justice writes that the government is currently working on a major communication on police capacity and competence needs. That's the same message I also referred to, and we're going to promote it to the Storting during the spring session.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e1808	The representative Bengt Fasterale has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e1813	My post was just an invitation to everyone that we should get the best possible defense. There is no doubt that if we can go in and see what is the basis for what we have, and what we can get back for the money, Home Security is a solution that should not be marginalized in any way. I'm going to take a round at the group meeting, and then I'm going to come back and make an even better contribution, because then I'm sure I've got the input from everyone else. So I mean the exact same thing about the police. We in the Center Party are more or less under attack because we "speak down" the police. So we're not going to do that, we're going to have a little bit of a different device. We also understand that the police may have other tasks than to run a hunting service on Dovre, we understand that, but we understand that maybe it is also an important part of the task. We just want another device.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e1822	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e1838	I see that I am – shy – allocated 5 minutes on this matter, but I will be brief. There's two things I need to remember. The first is the pleasant fact that there is an overall committee behind the government's proposal for a change to the Svalbard Act. The second is an important fact, to recall that Svalbard is part of the Kingdom of Norway, where Norway exercises sovereignty, to put it this way. Brief on the proposition: this is an adaptation of the Svalbard Act to the new municipal law, and it mainly refers to Chapter 5 of the Svalbard Act, which dates from 1925. The Committee also supports the maintenance of the Svalbard clause as today, and the other amendments are of a more technical nature, which I leave to the interested representative to elaborate on, whose needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e1849	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e1867	As the small country we are after all, Norway is totally dependent on the respect and defence of the international legal order. Our own security presupposes that the world community speaks loudly when the principles are broken. That's why we have to be coherent and expressive in all contexts internationally when international law rules are challenged. It should not be our own short-term interests that lie at the root of our opinion on violations of international law or human rights. All UN Member States must respect the inviolability of borders, the Charter of the United Nations and the right of peoples to self-determination, and all UN Member States are obliged to call out when borders and rights are put to the test. Morocco had no right to illegally invade the non-autonomous Western Sahara territory. The territory was inhabited by a people. This people had – and still have – a right to decide for themselves the future of their territory, and a legitimate right to choose independence from colonial times. The occupation was condemned by the UN, and the General Assembly asked Morocco immediately to withdraw its troops. They didn't. That is precisely why it is so positive that the position of changing Norwegian governments is fixed. Norway does not recognise Morocco’s annexation and occupation of the territory. In particular, our position was clear when Norway was in the Security Council, and in the years that followed. Under Per-Kristian Foss as Minister of Finance, for example: the following regarding the Kerr-McGee oil exploration company in the territory: ‘Morocco has occupied Western Sahara for a number of years, despite strong condemnation from the United Nations. Following the Council’s assessment, Kerr-McGee facilitates the possible use of the natural resources in the region by Morocco. The Council considers such activities to be a ‘in particular a serious breach of fundamental ethical standards’, inter alia, because this may help to legitimise Morocco’s sovereignty requirements and thereby undermine the UN peace process.» Similarly clear statements we have had many of them, both before and after. It is important, and I will commend it, because the humanitarian consequences of the continued occupation are serious. Firstly, half of the population of Western Sahara has been displaced. In recent years, the situation has become increasingly critical by international donors withdrawing and leaving the refugees to themselves. The UN adjusted last year the population figures of the refugee camps, while the UN Secretary-General calls for increased support. It is essential that Norway step up humanitarian aid for this population, and in particular the nutritional situation is critical. Over the last two years, the leadership of the Norwegian youth parties has seen the importance of long-term Norwegian food aid. Anemia is widespread, while maternal mortality is still very high. People live on business in emergency aid in the fourth decade, and unfortunately U.S. stopped the long-term food aid for the weakest refugees in 2018. Patients are now no longer offered nutrition. Secondly, while the situation is very critical in the refugee camps, as we know, there is also a serious attack on the Saharan who lives in that part of Western Sahara that is under illegal Moroccan occupation. The UN Special Rapporteur on Arbitration and Torture has reported on torture against Saharan activists, and the UN peacekeeping operation in Western Sahara, MINURSO, has been prevented from reporting on the human rights situation in the territory. It's the only modern UN operation that doesn't have such an opportunity. In the latest ranking of the Freedom House organization, only seven territories and countries around the world score worse than Western Sahara on political freedoms. Morocco’s closest ally, France, is using its place in the UN Security Council to block the possibility of the UN operation reporting on the abuses. Therefore, it is very positive that the Norwegian Government has repeatedly raised the issue of respect for human rights with French political leadership. I want to commend the government for being clear on that point. It is very important that work be continued vis-à-vis Paris, and preferably in cooperation with the other Nordic countries. In addition to stopping the reporting of human rights and their violation, France is also blocking the UN processes. Because of the French authorities, the United Nations Security Council has been virtually paralysed on the issue ever since the invasion took place. It was actually going to be an impatient Trump administration to kick the conversations off again after many years of standstill. The fact that Morocco has finally accepted the way back to the negotiating table is good, but as long as Morocco does not face further political pressure, it is unlikely that they will at this time be willing to deny the requirement of permanent and illegal annexation of the territory. It is therefore frustrating to see the EU ignoring judges in the EU Court of Justice on Western Sahara under French influence. While Norwegian governments have been aware that Norway’s agreements with Morocco obviously cannot apply to Western Sahara, the EU is of a different opinion. The European Court of Justice has concluded that EU-Morocco agreements cannot be covered by Western Sahara, but these judgments have in practice chosen by the EU institutions to put in a drawer. I asked last November what the government would do to deal with our closest European allies that the EU cannot conclude trade agreements covering Western Sahara. The Minister of Foreign Affairs replied at the time that the EU was well-known in its Norwegian position, but in the same reply the government pointed out that it is Norwegian that the ‘interests of the local population’ must be respected. It is important that that particular aspect is really considered irrelevant by previous EU judgments. What is relevant in the Norwegian policy of renunciation and, as the government often mentions in the Western Sahara context, is the aspect that such business must be in line with the wishes of the Saharan people. This right of consent for the people of Western Sahara has been mentioned consistently, through alternating governments, in the context of the important dissuade against business in the territory. The right to consent was extended, inter alia, to: drawn up by Minister of Foreign Affairs Brende when we last had an interpellation debate on this topic – in 2014, by representative Trine Skei Grande. The aspect of consent is worth mentioning often — and more often — as it places Norwegian policy perfectly in line with what the European Court of Justice also concludes. It is not Norway's job or the company's job to find out how business life in Western Sahara is for the benefit of those who live there. They have to figure it out on their own. In this context, there is a difference between the words ‘local population’ and ‘people’. Those who are going to tell us how they want their lives and business organized are the people of Western Sahara themselves, and not the Moroccan people who have moved in. The then Secretary of State Eide stated in 2011 that it was obvious that the Saharan people and not the immigrants were meant when talking about the important policy of dissuadement. State Secretary Helgesen provided similar clarifications in the NRC back in 2005, and it is important that this self-evidentness be repeated. So, from the Norwegian side, let us continue to use the term ‘people’ when we talk about Western Sahara’s people’s rights, as the Norwegian government often does, and is also in line with the European Court of Justice. Finally, few international violations of international law are as obvious as those we see in Western Sahara. The games at Stortinget are in agreement. The Great Lakes Friends Group for Western Sahara is composed of representatives from all parties. Very constructive questions have been asked from all parties in recent years, and therefore we hope that a clear defence for international law will continue to be Norwegian policy in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e1902	First, I want to thank the interpellant for traveling the interpellant. The conflict in the Western Sahara has been going on for more than 40 years, with great human costs and humanitarian consequences. According to the United Nations, there are more than 170 000 Saharan refugees living in camps in Tindouf, Algeria, and conditions in the camps are difficult. The humanitarian situation in the refugee camps is particularly difficult, and Norway supports a project under the auspices of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees in the Camps. So it's right, as the representative pointed out, that the support that had been in the camps for nearly 17 years was stopped from last year. It was an assessment of the achievement of results and quality that did so. However, this does not prevent the future consideration of other humanitarian projects that can contribute. Too many young people live in camps with no prospect of a better future, and a political solution to the conflict will be important both for the people affected by it and for regional security and stability. It is a positive sign that the UN Secretary-General's Special Mission for Western Sahara, Horst Köhler, has held two rounds of talks since December last year and that all parties and neighbouring countries, including Morocco, Algeria, Mauritania and Polisario, have participated. According to the participants, the dynamics of the meetings have been positive. In the Joint Final Declaration of the last March meeting, the parties stated that they would continue the discussions. The path to a lasting political solution will be long, and a lot of work remains. At the same time, it is important, in our view, that dialogue continue and that the parties continue to build mutual trust, especially when difficult issues are discussed. Norway's position in principle is that all UN operations should have a human rights mandate. That is why we believe that the mandate for UN peacekeeping operations in the Western Sahara should also include monitoring and reporting of the human rights situation in the area covered by the UN operation. But this is still not supported by the UN Security Council. At the same time, it is positive that the Security Council encourages the parties to increase cooperation with the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, including visits by the High Commissioner of the region. We believe that such a visit will be useful for all parties. From the Norwegian side, the Rabat embassy has regular contact with the Moroccan Human Rights Commission, including their offices in Western Sahara. We address the human rights situation in Western Sahara and the camps in Tindouf with both Moroccan and Algerian authorities, as well as with representatives of Polisario. In recent years, the European Court of Justice has taken three decisions that EU bilateral agreements with Morocco cannot be applied in Western Sahara. The Court of Justice understands that the territory cannot be considered as part of its territory. Despite the judgment, the European Parliament supported the new agricultural agreement between the EU and Morocco in January this year. This includes goods from Western Sahara. Similarly, in February the European Parliament decided to support the new fisheries agreement, which includes the sea areas outside Western Sahara. It can be expected that, like the previous ones, the proceedings may be challenged in the judicial system. From the Norwegian side, we have been particularly concerned with avoiding actions that could be seen as legitimizing the situation in Western Sahara. An example of this is our interpretation and practice of the free trade agreement between EFTA and Morocco. This Agreement indicates that it applies to the territories of the Contracting Parties. From the Norwegian side it is clear that, in our view, the agreement does not cover products originating in Western Sahara. The other EFTA States interpret the Agreement in the same way. Based on advice from the Ethics Council, the State pension fund abroad has also excluded investments in several companies engaged in oil-related activities off the coast of Western Sahara on behalf of Morocco. The code of international law imposes a number of obligations and restrictions on Morocco towards the people of the Western Sahara as regards Moroccan exploitation of natural resources in and in the off-Saharan sea areas. Such activities must be carried out in accordance with the wishes of the population concerned and in a way that benefits the population. If Morocco facilitates trade, investment, resource use and other commercial activities in Western Sahara which are not in accordance with the wishes of the local population, this could be contrary to international law. In the current situation in Western Sahara, it will in most cases be very difficult for Norwegian enterprises to predict the impact of concrete investments and industrial activities and whether they will benefit the local population. In order to avoid these kinds of situations, the then government decided in 2007 to adopt a precautionary approach and, in general, to be cautious about investing in this area. This was done in the form of an official defamation. The Norwegian advice does not constitute a legally binding prohibition, but is intended to encourage private actors to exercise prudence and social responsibility when assessing their involvement in the area. Norwegian positions in the case of Western Sahara are firm and in line with the decisions of the United Nations Security Council. Norway supports the UN's efforts to contribute to a political solution to the conflict, which, according to the Security Council, must imply the right of self-determination for the people of Western Sahara. It is therefore positive that the parties now wish to continue the dialogue under the leadership of the UN Special Mission. On the Norwegian side, we will continue to contact all parties to the conflict and visit Western Sahara and the camps in Tindouf.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e1936	I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for the excellent work he has done on, among other things. the human rights situation. I would like to begin by making a comment on this with the humanitarian aid and food. It is good to hear that the level of assistance is maintained, but it is also important that the quality of assistance is good. The Foreign Minister mentioned the achievement of results in terms of food aid, and one thing we can be sure of at least is that food aid results are food. It's important, and it's urgent. As it is now, however, food aid has ended, as mentioned, despite the fact that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs said in the previous interpellation that it was important that food aid persisted as long as the conflict has not been resolved – and the conflict has not yet been resolved. It's very acute not to have food. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has said in the past that it is not an emergency situation to stop this food aid, but it is difficult to recognise, among other things. for the young parties who have recently placed their feet in the refugee camps in Algeria. I would also like to comment on another element in the Foreign Minister's reply. This is an unfortunate Norwegian word that has crept into an otherwise good introduction. The Minister of Foreign Affairs asks ‘all parties’ to find a solution to the conflict, but the conflict initially has two parties: on the one hand, Morocco and on the other, Polisario, which is the United Nations General Assembly’s designated representative of the people of Western Sahara. In this respect, it is important that the government uses the UN terminology in the future and refers to ‘both parties’. It's important because the opposite would be to see it to some extent through Morocco's glasses. Taking neighbouring countries, Algeria and other countries – yes, they disagree with Morocco about much, and the disagreement between neighbouring countries goes further in time, but we cannot mix Algeria and Morocco’s bitter neighbourliness with the issue of the conflict between the liberation movement of the people of Western Sahara on the one hand and the neighbour of Western Sahara, Morocco on the other. Algeria and Mauritania are invited to peace talks in their capacity as neighbouring countries, but using the expression ‘all parties’, just done by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the U.D. and the Minister for Foreign Affairs are helping to produce the conflict in a Moroccan narrative. This will not be a constructive contribution to the peace talks. I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs to comment on the two challenges I have now given.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e1943	First, I want to say that I'm also well acquainted with the commitment that the youth parties have. I had a meeting with the youth party leaders in my office a little while ago and it seems that the commitment shown, perhaps especially for the humanitarian situation, is commendable. As I was in my post, we are also concerned about finding good contributions. It also means that if the assessment is that a particular project does not give the results we want, we have to see if there are other things that can give equivalent results. As I was inside, in my opinion it is also necessary to look at the longer-term side of this. Norway, as the representative of the Supreme Court, has had a long-standing policy in this area, which has prevailed through changing governments. That, I think, is a strength in this context. But we can now also look back in almost 40 years when the situation has not changed significantly, and that's exactly why it's important that we keep working on these issues. What I said in my post – to quote it exactly – was ‘all parties and neighbouring countries’, and I referred to Morocco, Algeria, Mauritania and Polisario. So there was a little shade there – ‘all parties and neighboring countries’.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e1952	I would like to thank the interpellant for a good interpellation and not least the Minister for Foreign Affairs for a good answer in the very demanding matter we are discussing. Today we are discussing an important interpellation and a matter that concerns what many would refer to as the last colony in Africa. For most of us, the word "colony" is fortunately a thing of the past, but there is an area in North Africa that is formally still a Spanish colony, but which Spain left in the 1970s, and which has since been occupied by Morocco. For decades Norway has referred to Western Sahara as an occupied area. This has happened under changing governments, both from the right and the left. In 2005, he said, among other things: Minister of Foreign Affairs Jan Petersen from the Right that Norway did not recognise the occupation. It's a pretty hard, pretty cool, but also quite precise statement. A few years ago, however, there was a change from the Norwegian side in how the conflict was described. The word ‘accompanied’ was replaced to a greater extent by the word ‘disputed’, which obviously has a completely different meaning. This shift was not today's government or foreign minister who did, so there is no criticism by the foreign minister here, but it is nevertheless a change that I think one should clarify. I hope that the Minister for Foreign Affairs will maintain an offensive and clear policy which clarifies what is Norway's official position and makes it clear in the discussions you have. Today, people living in occupied areas have little influence, and their area is being held in an iron grip – unfortunately with the blessing of many Western countries. In the government platform, which I, as a major representative of one of the government parties, clearly backs me, it says that government policy is based on ‘reconciliation, a freer world trade, economic growth, liberal values and respect for human rights’. History has shown us that successful countries are based on precisely that: free trade, human rights and liberal values – not on occupation, censorship and persecution. The undersigned believes that some rights are so fundamental that they are universal, and a good basic view is based on the fact that all people have certain universal freedoms and rights, such as: freedom of expression, no matter where in the world you live. It also states that people living in an area must be allowed to determine their own future and the future status of their own territory. It is a good principle that I hope Norway will keep high in the conversations Norway is part of, and in the discussion about the occupation of Western Sahara.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e1969	For a whole year, the then 21 - year - old Saharan woman Nazha El Khalidi was in Norway. Here she went on the photo line at a high school in South Africa. On December 4, 2018, she was arrested in Western Sahara for having the livestream demonstration on Facebook. She belongs to a group of journalists called Equipe Media. Sahrawi journalists operate in secret. They do not have a press card or union protection because Morocco has criminalised all forms of independent journalism relating to Western Sahara by means of Articles 265 to 7 of the Moroccan Criminal Code. Like all other Sahrawi journalists, Nazha is therefore working in violation of all Moroccan legislation and without protection. On 4 March, according to Article 381 of the Moroccan Criminal Code, Nazha was accused of calling himself a journalist without a press card. She is now in danger of being sentenced to two years in prison for calling herself a journalist, and she is going to trial in a few weeks. Fortunately, Western Sahara is well known to those who sit here – unfortunately not too many other Nordics. Foreign visitors are denied entry into the territory today, and I myself am one of the very last Northmen who have been visited the territory without being stopped at the border. From 2016 until today, some 130 Norwegians have been expelled from Western Sahara or stopped at the border of Moroccan police. When I was there in the cities of Smara and El Aaiún in 2015, I tried to film a demonstration that I and my travel companion witnessed – just as Nazha did. It was quickly turned down by the police, and I understood that they did not want what we saw to reach the world – the police who threw stones at unarmed civilians, who did nothing but shout slogans for their own country and show off their own flag. I think it was strong to witness such gross police violence against innocent people. Nor was there any doubt that the Moroccan authorities were doing what they could to ensure that the reality of the saharawiene was not going to reach the rest of the world. We were persecuted by Moroccan intelligence police in civil from the time we arrived at the occupied territory until we got out again and a good piece into Morocco. We had a lot of meetings with Saharan activists, and everyone had to be at home secretly because you don't have the freedom to organize. I was also present at the consultation on Morocco in the Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights of the UN Human Rights Council in 2015. The Committee expressed its concern that Morocco is committing a wide range of violations of the rights of the Saharan people. The ESC stresses the importance of the need for saharawiene to give its consent on issues relating to the natural resources of Western Sahara, as the Court of Justice of the European Union has judged, as the Norwegian authorities often point out. It is very nice that the government has often mentioned the aspect of the wishes of the Saharan people, rather than just the wishes of the local people, which the European Court of Justice has found irrelevant. Finally, I would like to share with others the concern that food aid for the Sahrawi refugees has been cut. It's terrible to think about how the situation is now that the very many chronic misnourished refugees can't be offered nutrition in hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e1982	In February 2018, the European Court of Justice concluded that the territory of Western Sahara is separate and distinct from Morocco and that the EU trade agreements cannot therefore be used in occupied Western Sahara. Unfortunately, the EU has chosen to ignore the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union and has passed on its agreements to the territory. Paradoxically, the EU institutions, on the one hand – rightly – criticise the way in which countries such as Poland or Hungary sided with democracy and the rule of law, while one itself does not hesitate to ignore the same principle in cases where the European Court of Justice has ruled on Western Sahara. Some EU Member States have repeatedly expressed concerns that the EU is violating international law here. The basic principle of the decisions of the EU Court of Justice in 2016 and 2018 is based on the fact that the people of Western Sahara have the right to decide for themselves what will happen to their territory and natural resources. The Court of Justice has itself stated that the EU talks that local populations should focus on the EU and Morocco's operations in Western Sahara are irrelevant. The people of the Western Sahara must give their own consent to such questions — sentence. How the EU and Morocco assess their jobs is therefore irrelevant. With reference to these principles, a German-operated bulk ship was taken into custody in South African waters in 2017, and it was only by chance that a Norwegian ship was not subject to the same thing earlier this year, when it carried fish from the territory. With this backstop, it is interesting that Norwegian-scale fishing research routinely takes place in the waters of the territory. This is done in cooperation with Moroccan authorities, but without the Zaharrawic people having given their consent. Although it is great that the stock of fisheries in the Western Sahara is produced, it is controversial that one makes research sticks in cooperation with the occupying party, and that the data is given to Morocco, so that they in turn can use these data to conclude agreements with the EU that are contrary to EU law and international law, and that are essentially undermining the UN peace talks. At the same time, its owners of the fish in refugee camps are misnourished and receive relatively small amounts of Norwegian humanitarian aid. I would like to appeal to the government to evaluate the political aspects of research. Not only to accommodate the one party to the conflict, a set of measures could lead to an increase in fishing competence for both parties to the conflict, and to an independent acquisition of consent from the saharawiane to that effect. It can also be seen that data collected is shared with Saharawiane and that the extent to which there is a possibility of the U.D. being arrested in international or national waters to participate in operations in the Western Sahara is assessed, contrary to the principle established by international law and the European Court of Justice. Finally, I would like to express my concern at the extensive Norwegian participation in the private fishing activities of Moroccan authorities, particularly the activities of the fishing company Sjövik, the many transport operations of Green Reefers, and the subsequent many sales of the Norwegian fishing vessel to Moroccan interests in the territory. It is also with great concern that I have learned that the food aid for refugee camps has stopped. It's not like they can feed in these refugee camps themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e1997	I want to start by thanking the interpellant for giving us the opportunity again to discuss the very serious situation in Western Sahara here in Stortinget. For the situation in Western Sahara, an open wound remains in the aftermath of the decolonization of the continent. Here we stand together in the desire to protect the inviolability of human rights and not least together in the desire for a solution to the situation. This is a matter that has been locked down for over 40 years. The situation has led to much suffering for the people of Western Sahara. On the left, we have been clear about the need to follow up UN resolutions and decisions on the territory, and already twelve years ago, the party adopted an opinion requiring Norway to recognise Western Sahara as an independent state. We have also regularly raised this debate through interpellations in the Grand Duchy, because today's situation in Western Sahara is contrary to international law. There is a broad consensus on international law that Western Sahara today is an illegally occupied area. There is also a broad consensus within Norwegian policy that saharawiene is entitled to a referendum. The inhabitants deserve a peaceful solution to Africa's only surviving colonial issues. We have always been clear that the situation in the Western Sahara is unacceptable and that Morocco has a primary responsibility for resolving this situation. This predictable and clear line has been important to send a clear signal to the authorities of Rabat. Now, when what we're about to call a careful peace process, it's important to support it. The conflict over Western Sahara will have to be resolved through negotiations, and Norway must continue its clear role towards Morocco while helping to raise the issue of the future of Western Sahara on the priority list of our closest allies, such as France. We must demand that all parties invest in the peace process and that we do all we can to contribute to a peaceful solution. I am sure that the Minister of Foreign Affairs wants to do so. Saharawiene deserves a better everyday life and a brighter future. As we have heard from several other representatives here today, a generation is now growing up in refugee camps in Algeria that have never lived in their home country, which has never experienced freedom. The 200,000 refugees living in the camps are totally dependent on humanitarian aid. There is a great shortage of water in the camps, chronic malnutrition is very common, and those that go beyond are, in particular, the smallest. Saharawiene lives on emergency aid, but they deserve a lasting solution. That's why it's incredibly important that we contribute what we can to achieve a proper peace process.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e2012	I would also like to start by thanking the interpellant Freddy André. It's very important that we raise these issues. Now I guess the previous interpellant has also taken the seat in the hall. In 2014, Trine Skei Grande raised this important debate. I am pleased with the clear guidance given by the Minister of Foreign Affairs on Norway's stand. It's important. In the last 24 hours, there has been a lot of information about what the UN Secretary-General Guterres has said about this in the Security Council. He has said that a consensus on the Western Sahara is possible. According to him, there is just trust between the two parties that are the most demanding. He also says, according to an AFP news report, that a solution will require strong political will, not only from the parties and neighbouring countries, but from the international community. I believe the Secretary-General of the United Nations is quite right about that. The Christian People's Party has always supported the struggle for self-government and independence for the people of Western Sahara. In a process of decolonisation, people within the territory must be able to choose whether they will become independent. The parties shall negotiate a solution, but that solution must necessarily result in respect of the right to self-government. That right means that the people will be elected to be independent. If Morocco does not accept to enter into conversations with this as a starting point, Norway will have to increase pressure on Morocco. It is decisive whether international law should be respected. While the one half of the people inside the territory live under occupation, the other part is exiled to refugee camps in Algeria. There is a very serious humanitarian situation. Like others, among others The Courtyard, if it's inside, has our important aid work here. For almost two decades, the Church’s Emergency Aid has been operating important nutrition projects in refugee camps. The project has consisted of fresh food in hospitals, nutrition research in refugee camps and compensation for health professionals. Misnutrition is very widespread. We can all imagine what it's like to live on a diet of lentils and flour this year after year. No human body is meant to live a life on emergency aid. Nearly all the women in refugee camps have anemia. It is therefore important that Norwegian researchers, in cooperation with the Church's Emergency Aid, have carried out nutrition research in refugee camps. Researchers have discovered that deficiency diseases are widespread. In particular, anaemia is common among women who have children. It was a pleasure for former Foreign Minister Burnde in the 2014 interpellation debate to stress the importance of continuing assistance in the light of the fact that the conflict has not been resolved. So several people have just underlined that the assistance has unfortunately not continued since 2018. I notice what the Foreign Minister is saying today. The important thing is that we get help out for the projects that deliver the good results. I believe we can safely say that the work of the Church's Emergency Aid has been important in this way. Every year, the UN High Commissioner for Refugees stresses that they need additional international assistance to fulfil their mandate to help these refugees. In recent years the situation has only worsened and worsened. International aid has unfortunately been cut. This is why it is particularly important that Norway should provide humanitarian aid and help over a long period of time.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e2029	Like the other speakers, I would like to thank the representative of the Supreme Court for a good and important interpellation and thank you for what I think was essentially a very positive response from the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It shows that there is cross-political support for what should be a Norwegian line in this field. The world is a troubled place, and not least the area of the world in which Western Sahara is located. The Storing discussed the situation in Libya earlier today. We know the situation in Yemen, in Syria. Throughout North Africa and the Middle East, there are very large areas where humanitarian crises and political disasters occur. But in such a picture, it's important to remember those places where it doesn't burn the most, those from which we don't get the most news broadcasts, but where it's stable going pretty bad. That is why I think it is good that the Stortinget has used this opportunity to put Western Sahara on the agenda. Western Sahara is, as I said, an area with cross-political support behind it. Nevertheless, it is important that we take time to discuss what should be Norwegian policy and strategy to get something done about the issue. In the Workers' Party, there is a great deal of commitment to this matter. It has been a long time, both for the humanitarian situation and for the human rights situation. The Labour Party also cooperates with Polisario – both the Party and youth organisations. As has been said – there have been 40 years out in the desert, now the population is waiting for a solution. I am a little uncertain as to whether I heard the Foreign Minister right, so I give her the opportunity to correct if necessary. I believe I heard her say that the people of Western Sahara have the right to influence or co-determination. It should be the people of Western Sahara, they have the right to self-determination. We know that in the people of Western Sahara there is today a Moroccan majority. Then we all know what would be the outcome there. What should Norway do? Well, Norway should work internationally. I am pleased that the Foreign Minister pointed specifically to MINURSO, that it should be given an extended mandate. In addition, we should use our very strong and close ties with Spain, France and other key countries and put pressure on them to play a more constructive role than they do today. We should also have this on our agenda when, hopefully, Norway is winning the election campaign to get into the Security Council. We should have ambitions about what we're going to do in our two years in the Security Council. I believe that the Saharan people should be something that we just have as an ambition to get attention around. So it's, as it's been mentioned in all the speeches, I think, a rather urgent humanitarian situation. It's a people who don't have work, who largely live on international help. I think it is a pity that the government has created uncertainty about the assistance to Western Sahara. I would like to thank the Christian People's Party and the Left – I think the two key people are now sitting in the Chamber, Skei Grande and Hareide – for saving previous proposals for budget cuts. But I think it is very bad that you have cut support for, for example. The Church's emergency work is incredibly important, which has played such an important role there, and has given emergency aid to so many people. But I hope the Foreign Minister hears the clear expectations both from the opposition and from the government parties. I think Hareide made an excellent contribution on the important work of the Church's Emergency Aid. Norway should be a country that is present and has this on the agenda, as a country, but it should also continue to appeal to civil society in Norway to play an important role here. The representative of Enger Mehl stated that very many Norwegian activists have been cast out. I hope that Norway will take this into account in its dialogue with Morocco, that it is not acceptable for Norwegian young people who simply aim to get in and look at the situation to be thrown into the border and not accessed. We need young people to travel to Western Sahara and see with their own eyes what kind of conditions they live under. I am pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs also says that Norway should be present and should send delegations to both the camps and the occupied territories. I hope that those delegations can at some point also have representatives of political leadership. Finally, let me use the last 30 seconds to thank the Western Sahara Support Committee, which is doing an incredibly important job here at home in Norway, and which has done an important job of creating commitment in all the parties, in the trade movement and in other parts of civil society, but which has also been a very important monitor of business and has been shown to have a very great impact on how business operates in Western Sahara. It is a small organisation, but they have proved to be one of the strongest in Europe on the issue. It also shows the importance of having good support schemes for small civil society organisations in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e2051	I want to start by thanking you for your commitment to the Chamber and to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. As I started to say in my first post, the defence of the international legal order and the defence of international law is important both in solidarity with us and with the people of Western Sahara. It is also important for Norway’s position. But as a small country, defending international law is crucial. So I want to use my last minutes to hold on and challenge a little bit further about food aid, which several representatives have also mentioned. I thank you for that, and I would also like to thank you for your contributions. Mr Hareide. However, I will continue to challenge because the Foreign Minister explained the food aid stop with poor achievement of the performance targets that the project had. That that is the reason, as far as I know, has not been mentioned before, it has only been mentioned now. All the feedback I know from both the Norwegian partner and the partners in the camps has been that the project is successful. Lack of — in that case — achievement of the performance targets has, as far as I know, not been communicated to neither partners here in Norway nor in the camps and in Western Sahara. This is very important. I would like to see a more concrete explanation from the Minister for Foreign Affairs as to why – if necessary – the partners involved have not received that feedback. Finally, I will also challenge the Foreign Minister and the government on what they might want to replace this project with. We have just had a seminar where, among other things, was visited by someone who has worked on this project. To me it looked like it was about life, death and health – to be completely honest. Providing good nutrition to the refugees in the camps who are exposed to failing health, by maintaining or putting this project back in place again, I think it is absolutely crucial. I hoped that the result of this interpellation would be that we will at least find an alternative, so that Norway can contribute to the health of the refugees in the camps.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e2060	First, I would like to thank you for a good and interesting debate. I'll just try briefly to answer the things that have arisen in the course of the debate. I was very clear on how we interpreted the decisions of the European Court of Justice. We're completely in line with those decisions, and we're talking here about the rights of saharawiene. Our view is very clear that if those rights are not respected, this – as I also said – can be contrary to international law if this is not in accordance with what they want. To the question of the concrete project of the Church's Emergency Aid: We make annual assessments of the projects we are always engaged in. We are soon to allocate the humanitarian funds for 2019. Then we're going to re-assess what projects will be able to meet the needs. Although Norway is a great humanitarian donor, we will not be able to meet all needs either, but we have not cut out all humanitarian aid for the camps, on the contrary, we are still maintaining something. But the Church's emergency aid was told when the support disappeared last year that we no longer continued that support – for the reason I mentioned – that the goal achievement was not in line with the effort we put down. But as I said, this is something we constantly evaluate, and we make new assessments every year. So of course, we're going to make the same assessments right now before this distribution round. In conclusion, fisheries resources outside North-West Africa are common populations that migrate between the different economic zones. In order to calculate these total populations and to recommend a ceiling on how much can be fished within a responsible framework, monitoring of the whole range of populations is needed. Of course, it's also important to avoid overfishing. The results of this research are available to all. Based on research carried out by the research ship ‘Dr. Fridtjof Nansen’, a very strict regulation was put in place of it when almost the sardine population collapsed outside of Western Sahara. It was restored. This programme helps to maintain and not weaken stocks and the ecological balance of the sea outside Western Sahara. It's an important point for the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e2088	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a change of line with up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to three minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e2097	Initially, as the rapporteur, I would like to start by thanking the Committee for a good cooperation in this matter of equal pay, which has come from various representatives of the Socialist Left Party. The Committee has set itself behind the intentions of the proposers to balance pay differentials in Norwegian working life. What this issue has been about are various proposals on how to balance pay differentials between sexes and counteract the gender-divided labour market. The Committee held an open hearing on this draft representative on 31 January this year, and I would also like to thank all those who contributed to that hearing. At the beginning of the debate, it is also important to mention that today we have regulated discrimination in terms of wages, quite comprehensive in our legislation. The principle of equal pay for equal work is laid down by law, and the right to demand information about the salaries of others if they are suspected of being discriminated against in respect of remuneration is also statutory. In addition, I would like to point out that the social partners have a central role to play in the work on equal pay, both in the implementation of wage and salary settlements themselves, and not least in cooperation with the authorities when the work on equal pay is followed up in relevant selections and advice. What this debate is therefore essentially about is how to counteract structural wage differences despite existing regulation and legislation. For the left, we have also been very concerned about helping to reduce gender pay differentials in Norwegian working life. In particular, I think it is interesting to bring forward the figures from the SSB that show that a major reason for persistent pay differentials between women and men is that women often choose low paid professions, while men choose professions with higher wages. I think one of the terms that came up at our hearing is particularly interesting, because it gives a slightly different look at this particular question. It's not necessarily the case that only women choose work at lower wages, it's also something structural in our society that says something about how we value different types of work. Then it is simply that traditional women's churches are systematically less paid than traditional men choose. But one of the proposals that comes up here today is just about doing something about the pay gap within the same industry, not about the differences that exist between different types of work. It's about this model of Iceland, to which there's a lot of evidence. I have been so lucky that as part of the delegation to the Nordic Council, I was able to participate and look at how this equal pay standard and this certification system work. What we know is that we know pretty little, because the work on this island model hasn't gotten that far, and at least we haven't got the results of it yet. So I think it's too early to go into a debate about importing that system into Norway. Finally, I would like to say that I am pleased that the government has several different programmes that are just going to make sure that it does something about these structural pay differentials, programmes such as ‘Human in Health’ and ‘Women and Technology’, which encourage young people to choose untraditionally – but not least for the other concrete decisions we have taken in this committee in the past, among other things. in the case of the obligation of activity and presentation which will be important for making enterprises aware of the existing wage differences in their own industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e2120	Equality does not come of itself. If we are to achieve greater equality in all areas of society, targeted policy efforts over time are required. It is now eleven years since the Equal Pay Commission presented its report. In working life, we still have major unsolved gender equality challenges. We have not been able to balance the pay gap between women and men. Equal pay is therefore one of the most important issues to deal with, and it is a prerequisite if we are to achieve real equality. However, the equal pay challenge is not solved by a single action. A consistent and continuous commitment to gender equality is required in all areas of society if we are to be targeted. First, the day when women and men can not only experience that they formally do the same, but can also choose freely, we might get into the goal of the equal pay case. Because, as the rapporteur said, it is a great deal that you do not actually choose freely. We take our choices within some frameworks and some expectations that we may not be aware of ourselves. That is why we also have a sex-shared labour market, and that is why very many women work part-time. It is therefore not consistent with a single measure. There's no such thing as a quick fix. We need a continuous work on equality in all areas of society. This is where I believe that the Workers' Party and the opposition are separating layers with the right side, which in recent years, through small and large measures, have put equality in reverse. That is also why the Workers' Party was so critical of the gender equality message when it arrived in 2015, because it did not contain any measures that could bring equality forward. That is why we proposed 50 measures to increase equality. There were 50 measures where we addressed working life, education and society, where we came up with measures that we thought the government itself should be included in the communication, but that were not proposed. Because we got along and joined forces with and supported proposals from the Left and Christian People's Party, 13 of the proposals in the discussion of that communication were adopted in the Stortinget. Equal pay is a political responsibility, but it is also a responsibility of the social partners. In Norway, we have the unique Norwegian model where employers and employees cooperate with the authorities, and this is where wage formation takes place. Through tripartite cooperation, we get changes that are broadly anchored. Once the parties have agreed and come up with solutions that everyone can agree to, there are solutions that create progress. That model is a very central part of the solution, which must be built up and not weakened. The Icelandic model is central to this proposal for a representative. We have to make sure that we do not risk weakening the Norwegian model by introducing the Icelandic model. Negotiations between the parties must continue to be the guiding principle, even when it comes to equal pay solutions. The Labour Party supports the proposal to investigate the model, and we believe that it is correct. In addition, of course, we need to ensure a good law, a good work environment law and to ensure that the challenges of gender equality are constantly addressed through education policy, family policy and overall distribution policy. When it comes to proposals Nos. 2 and 3 in the document, we have a new proposal that we are promoting to replace them. Both the Skjeie Committee and the Stoltenberg Government proposed in their time – and we repeated that in the treatment of the gender equality message – that there should be a separate tripartite cooperation for gender equality. There are today discussions within the Employment and Pension Policy Council, but not their own cooperation. We believe that there is a need for stronger shooting, a tripartite cooperation that can help solve the challenges of gender equality in the labour market. With that, I will address the suggestions Workerpartiet has with SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e2141	The representative Anette Trettebergstien has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e2146	The right behind is the intention of the proposers to balance gender pay differentials in Norwegian working life. But the Right also wants to refer to the Equality and Discrimination Act, how equal pay for equal work is legal, and that the person who suspects wage discrimination has the right to demand information about the salary of the person compared. Employment discrimination is not legal and employers are obliged to take this challenge seriously. Norway has a challenge with a gender-shared labour market, which we in the Right are taking most seriously. The fact that we are still talking about human and female professions in 2019 is unfortunate. Influence on the free choice of people is also challenging. But to put this in a small perspective: the Committee has just been travelling to Japan, and we can well conclude that here in Norway we are far ahead in the area we are debating here today. But there should be no sleeping cushions at all, because we need to have high ambitions in this area of policy. According to an article in the October 2018 issue of Sykepleien, male nurses earned 24 240 kroner more a year than their female colleagues. At the same time, we look at numbers from the SSB that male specialist nurses earned NOK 39 960 more than female colleagues. Professor Bente Abrahamsen of the Center for Professional Studies at OsloMet believes different preferences can be one of the reasons for the pay gap between male and female nurses. She says that differences in pay may be due to different income and working time priorities. Men give higher priority to pay, while women often give priority to parttime or organised work. We see from the research that men and women make different choices based on the different preferences they have, which in turn affect income. In the nursing profession, where income is largely determined by how much you work, and which shifts you take, the differences may also be related to this. Consumer economist at DNB Silje Sandmæl came in March this year with an invitation to take the gender equality in business one step further. She said that women now have to take the paycheck, even if it is unpleasant. She encourages women to talk more about pay at work: ‘In many jobs it is taboo to talk about wages. Who has the most to lose on it?" Those who are unfairly paid lose the fact that they are not talking about pay. Sandmæl refers to a survey of wages and negotiations recently carried out by the bank in the population. There is evidence that more women than men feel unfairly paid. 41 pst. By the men they say they get the salary they deserve, and 56 pst. says they should earn more, while only 29 pst. By the women they say they get the pay they deserve, and 69 pst. says they should have earned more. The survey also shows that most people find it more unpleasant than satisfactory to negotiate pay with their employer. But it pays off, it shows us the numbers. The whole of seven out of ten people who have negotiated pay have achieved better conditions. Of the women who have negotiated, 65 have pst. received a better salary, against only 46 pst. of the men. Sandsmæl explains this trend that women are more likely to win in wage negotiations, because women often do not ask for higher wages until they are 110 pst themselves. ensure that they deserve precisely the higher pay. This trend is also seen in female jobseekers, who would like to meet all the qualifications of a post before applying, while men only meet the majority of the qualifications before applying for the job concerned. The government has a broad and ongoing work to prevent gender-divided educational and professional choices. The fact that both sexes are represented throughout the range of professions is important for creating good role models, ensuring good recruitment, gaining different perspectives and representation — and not least reducing pay differentials.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e2179	I choose to draw out what is good in the proposal for a representative, and that is clearly the intention. It would have been tempting to speculate a little about the failed understanding of the statistics underlying the proposal, but, as you know, you should not have heard from this pulpit. Nevertheless, there are several well-known quotations on statistics, and my favorite may come from author Andrew Lang, who once said, ‘He uses statistics that the drunken man uses the lamppost: more in support than in information.’ This is also the case when the proposal refers to the existence of pay differentials between women’s dominated professions in the public sector and those in the private sector, in order to argue for the elimination of pay differentials between the different professions. Unlike the Socialist Left Party, which wants equal pay for different jobs, I think there are completely different things we have to deal with in terms of equal pay. But I choose, as I said, to focus on the good of the proposal, and it starts from the principle of equal pay for equal work. In this hall there is complete agreement on this principle. Anything other than equal pay for equal work is indiscriminately discriminatory and discriminatory. Therefore, there is also full agreement on a range of means to prevent such discrimination. One means is to raise awareness through good statistics. The figures from the Statistical Centre also show that there is still some inequality in pay for equal work that cannot be explained. But this is just a very small part of the reason that women earn less than men. The main reason is that women work more than men part-time, and that they work more than men in occupations where the level of pay is lower. Like the Socialist Left Party, I believe that there is no reason for working life to be sexually divided. But unlike the Socialist Left, I believe that we cannot accept equal pay for different work. The solution to the inequality in choices people make cannot be political decisions, quotas and artificial wage levels. Rather, the solution lies in the government's plan to promote a strategy to contribute to a more equal education and labour market. Such an overall approach will provide a good starting point for strengthening the work of equal opportunities. In the hearing on this matter, it was pointed out by several bodies that much of the reason for gender-based choices is not just pay differentials, but how society traditionally values work. It has also been argued in such debates that when the proportion of women increases, wages fall. To put it a little funny: it's going to be interesting to see if the pay for being prime minister or party leader is now falling as the bourgeois parties record in the proportion of women leaders. Luckily, I'm sure it's not Erna Solberg, Siv Jensen and Trine Skei Grande's sex that decides neither pay nor whether it's attractive for young boys and girls to apply for leadership positions in society. Finally, let me repeat that I appreciate the proposalers' intention that everyone should have equal pay for equal work, but at the same time it is a derailment to propose equal pay for different jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e2198	I would like to thank Freddy André Hövstegård and the other SV representatives for promoting the proposal on equal pay. In my opinion, equality policy is not getting us enough of it. We must continue to discuss it, and I share the intention of the proposers. In fact, the Equality Act has gradually been strengthened and states that gender pay differentials in working life are prohibited. It's probably evened out a little bit over the years, but numbers show that the pay gap persists. Women's salary in 2017 was only 87 pst. of the man's salary. These are not statistics we can just fool around or choose to look at what we want, it means that we still have a job to do. I think it's brave of Iceland to introduce a legal certification process where companies and institutions with over 25 employees will prove that women and men are paid equally for equal work. In Norway too, equal pay for equal work is illegal, but unlike in Iceland, individual employees have to prove that differences in pay are due to discrimination. With the new law, Iceland has transferred the burden of proof to the employer. Then, with the certification, it has a carrot approximation in itself – and eventually also penalties in itself, which you expect to get a little resistance to. In any case, in the report ‘Certified equality’. The EQS in Iceland, written by the Institute for Societal Research in 2018, shows that, in any case, the Icelandic EQS shifts focus from individual explanations of why women earn less than men to establishing a supportive institutional environment for gender equality at company level. With such a transparent environment, it can be more difficult to keep inequalities hidden. The Icelandic model is interesting, but the experience is still very limited, as it is not that long since it was implemented. Therefore, the Center Party believes that it makes sense to wait until we have a good knowledge and experience base to assess whether to copy a similar model. It is mainly because the Centre Party does not support SV's proposal No. 1 in the proposal for a representative at this stage. In addition, the Central Party is behind the last two proposals in the draft representative. There are still structures in society that maintain the pay gap between women and men. Valuation discrimination is perhaps one of the greatest problems of our equal pay. Wages and salaries vary according to the sex-shared labour market. Figures from 2017 from the SSB published in March this year show that the gender balance in the public and private sectors has remained almost still in the last ten years. The private sector consists of 63 pst. Men, while a large proportion of women – and then we talk about as much as 70 pst. – is found in the public sector. This just underlines that we need a more obligating plan. It would be wise for the government to take the initiative in what is proposed in proposals No. 2 and 3 of the proposal for a representative, which seeks to ask the social partners to present concrete ways of initiating cooperation between the parties in which the same parties are to present concrete solutions for the balancing of wage differences, measures to combat the sex-shared labour market, etc. The Left Party believes that there is a need for special efforts to reduce the large pay gap between men and women. One can read on their own websites that they ‘will ask the social partners to help correct the gender pay gap by designing a timetable for when this is to happen’. This is similar to the SV proposed today. I am therefore surprised that the Minister in his letter to the Committee responds that she sees no need to initiate cooperation between the parties on equal pay issues. What's happened here? I have to admit that I had probably expected the Left to have more impact on its equality policy in this area – when they sit with the Minister for Gender Equality.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e2215	Will the representative address the proposals with which the Central Party is co-rapporteur?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e2220	Yes, I will, since I'm before the speaker from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e2225	That's absolutely right. The representative of Åslaug Sem-Jakobsen then addressed the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e2231	In 1975, the UN Women's Year, women in Iceland went from their jobs around two o'clock in the afternoon. It was a starting point for the equality uprising we're still fighting 44 years later, because 44 years later, women still earn only $87 on average for every hundred bill a man earns. Last year, on the same date as in 1975, SV marked the equal pay uprising by promoting the proposal we are discussing today. The action in this country stems from a decision at the Trondheim Conference and is targeted by trade union workers and activists throughout the country. What motivates the action and the struggle is an important fact. It's that without economic autonomy we'll never achieve real equality between women and men. For example, this is a case in point. on all the small everyday decisions, those taken around the kitchen table, who has the last word when the family is going to buy a new car, who has the last word when the family might want to establish itself and take up mortgages. I believe that around many kitchen tables in Norway, the person with the highest income also has the greatest power in large and small decisions. That power means something in a everyday life, and it can't be understated. But even though we and the generations before us have been fighting for equal pay for decades, we're still far away from goals. As mentioned above, women still earn $87 on average for every hundred bills a man earns. But even worse, depending on how you calculate it, it will take between 50 and 100 years to achieve equal pay at today's rate. It clearly shows that we do not have a policy of equality and equal pay as monks, with today's government. The last 40 years of gender equality have shown that active policies are needed to correct the unfair structures that give women less power and opportunities than men. It is also necessary to combat the discrimination against value added in Norwegian working life, where women’s dominated professions are paid less than men’s dominated professions. And it is necessary to combat the most recent elements of wage discrimination in each activity and sector, where, for example, the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman. is clear that there is still a lack of equal pay. Therefore, as part of the gender equality action, SV has proposed the measures we are dealing with today. First of all, we look at Iceland, where legislation on equal pay has been strengthened far more than what we have here in Norway, through, among other things. moving the burden of proof to the employer, so it is the employer who has to prove that equal pay is paid for work of equal value. In addition, this shall be checked by an external party. We want the same thing in Norway. It is a strengthening of the legislation we already have. Then it is also essential for us in SV that the social partners participate in the design of such a scheme here. Secondly, we want the state to take the initiative in co-operation between the parties for equal pay. Both measures to combat the gender-based labour market, which we so often talk about, measures to increase full-time culture, which are certainly an important part of this, and also a possible plan for an equal pay pot. We do not escape an escalating, multi-annual equal pay pot in order to balance the discrimination in the value of work. It emerged in negotiations between the parties – that is where it needs to be – but the state should at least say that we are using the funds, if we find a mechanism. Thirdly, this proposal for a representative is part of a larger package for equal pay and equality in employment because it is about the whole, it is about equal sharing of care in the home, so we have proposed improvements in the leave system, and it is not least about the part-time trap we still have in Norway, and therefore we have also proposed the right to full time in another part of our work. Several decades of fighting for equal pay are not yet in goal. We don't have time to wait for the pace of today's government. Therefore, active policies are needed to balance the differences in power, wealth and opportunities between women and men.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e2254	Equal pay for equal work is an important and fundamental principle of equality, and there is a broad political consensus that we must also work here in Norway to close the pay gap between men and women. The two main reasons for the uneven pay distribution between men and women are that we still have a widely shared labour market here to a large extent, and that far more women than men work part-time. Here I would like to stress that the Christian People's Party clearly distinguishes between voluntary and involuntary part-time work. That parents in the busy early childhood choose to work part-time if they have a chance to do so is a good thing that we politicians should hang out and cheer up. We also need to bring with us the fact that someone actually wants to work part-time, for example to free up time to care for old parents or to volunteer in different ways, and the alternative value creation that it provides must not be underestimated. That being said, we know that there are too many women who want to work full time, who don't get the opportunity, and it has to be taken care of. In particular in the public sector, there has been a systematic effort to address the challenges of involuntary part-time work and equal pay problems, and efforts have been identified that seem to help over time. I still think it's worth getting inspired by the grips Iceland has taken by introducing – as the world's first country – an equal pay bill. This law requires all enterprises with more than 25 employees to report on the equal pay situation, and where men earn more than women for the same work done, fines are imposed. But also here in the country, we have the principle of equal pay. Section 34 of the Gender Equality Act states that «women and men in the same activity shall have equal pay for the same work or work of equal value». The Christian People's Party is going to follow the effect of the relatively recently introduced equal pay law in Iceland and continuously assess the learning outcomes and the transfer value we can take from there. I would also like to point out that the government is proposing a strengthening of the obligation of activity and reporting, and that is exactly what will be a good tool, because the monitoring of gender-based pay differentials will make the differences visible where they exist, thus facilitating the implementation of targeted measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e2269	Norway is among the world's most equal countries, but I agree with both the proposers and everyone who has spoken here earlier today, that we still have a way to go. But the differences between women and men are getting smaller and smaller. It applies in employment, in working hours, in management figures and in parental pension schemes, as well as in wages and salaries. Differences between women's and men's average wages continue to decrease, but still women make 87.1 pst. of a man's salary when we include both full-time and part-time employees. An important explanation of this pay gap is the gender-based labour market we still have in Norway. Women and men have different types of jobs, in different industries, in different sectors, and they are exposed to different types of wage formation. But sail if you sneak in and look at women who work in the same profession, the same industry, the same sector, have the same education and are as old as men, it's still that women make 93.5 pst. of what is the wages of the man. There is no law on pay discrimination in Norway, and we are now working on a proposal to strengthen the obligation of activity and reporting for employers in public and private enterprises. The government is going to come back to it soon. Surveying of earnings provides a basis for assessing the existence of pay differentials between women and men in comparable positions. The employer can assess whether there is a risk of gender discrimination and whether preventive action is required. Good guidance for the employer is important. Therefore, the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman will help all to pursue equality and follow up the obligation of activity and presentation. The gender-based labour market is largely due to gender-based educational choices. In the Granavolden platform, we therefore say that we should stimulate more people to choose non-traditional education and careers. And there are signs of change in the sex-shared labour market. Women are increasingly involved in education and occupations that have been dominated by men, such as medicine, law, psychology and economics. The problem is that there has not been a similar change among men. A particular challenge is getting men into women-dominated professions. The Government therefore proposes to present a separate strategy that will contribute to a more equal education and labour market. The strategy shall be based on the work of the UNGIDag Committee and shall include, inter alia: propose good measures to encourage young people to break gender-based education choices. We have increased support for girls and technology, and we aim to get more girls into technology and real science. What really wants to promote gender mainstreaming in working life is to get more men into the health and social sector and into other women's dominated professions. We have therefore used funds to get more men to apply for primary school and kindergarten teacher training, as the Minister of Higher Education and Research has also presented today. We also want more men in health education and care. There is a great need in the labour market for people with these training courses. We have also taken initiatives in tripartite cooperation to involve them in action on recruitment to the different professions, and in other actions we can take in tripartite cooperation to increase equality between women and men's wages. We cooperate, both with documentation and with research, on action with all social partners. Another important step taken in this field is the third division of parental leave. It will also lead to us balancing pay differentials over time, because we are going to see that the argument used against many women in their wage development can no longer be used against them, because we want to see a more equal withdrawal of parental leave between women and men. I'm pretty sure we'll also see that it will affect wage developments and pay differentials between women and men. So we're going to come up with more grips within reporting obligations and requirements. We're going to come up with more measures to reduce the gender divide of the labour market that we have, and we're going to cooperate with the social partners to combat the inequalities we see today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e2294	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e2299	I have had the pleasure of working with the Council of State – when she used to have an opposition role – on important proposals for equality policy that became important policy victories for gender equality. I mentioned the treatment of gender equality in 2015, and there was the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left and the SV together on a number of proposals for which we received a majority. I am very pleased that the Council of State – as it is now – shares the Workers' Party's view that there is not one doubt about the problem of equal pay, but that it is about long-term work and a broad gender equality policy. One of the proposals put forward by us — and by a majority — was to establish a separate tripartite cooperation for gender equality. It did not take hold of the then Progress Party State Council – either the next, Right-State Council. Will the Council of States now undertake such tripartite cooperation?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e2306	I've had my first meeting in tripartite cooperation. I have to admit that, even as the Left-leader, was a little stony, because it was Mowinckel who first established tripartite cooperation, and I think it was quite many years since a Left-State Council last got to take that meeting. In that meeting we discussed parental leave, and I was very happy to receive support from absolutely all employers' and employees' organisations that the third-party government has proposed is a good solution and will lead to more equal pay in the future. I have also received support from all the organisations in that they want to participate in the campaign we are going to be working on now to achieve a less gender-based labour market, with the campaigns we see for us. I look forward to that cooperation, between those organisations, and will meet them as often as I can to continue working on that plan to create a more equal labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e2313	I also hope that the Council of State and her party – and the government – will see the importance of strong organisations in the workplace, that the level of organisation is important, and that perhaps the attitude to ‘recognize’ the unorganised working life, as stated in the government platform, may be abandoned. But back to my question: The Council of State and the undersigned agreed in 2015 that there are no sporadic meetings in the Labour and Pension Policy Councils, but that what was called for by the Skjeie Committee and the Stoltenberg Government was needed, but it was not possible to carry out: a separate tripartite cooperation on equal opportunities. Because it's when the parties meet that change happens. So I ask again: will the Council of State implement the proposal for which she agreed to have a majority – against the votes of the Progress Party and the Right in 2105 – on her own tripartite cooperation?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e2322	First of all, I think it's very important to recognise that you're going to have strong organisations, I think it's important. But I also think it's a challenge to look at the wage-setting systems we have, that very many women's workers have a wage-setting system that is different from many traditional people's professions, and that it also affects wage developments in this area. I don't think we should close our eyes to that. So it's like I'm meeting with the Minister of Labour. I think we're going to be able to keep focus if we do it in our own meeting, or if we're actually so rational that we can have meetings consecutively, and I think we're going to be able to do that in our cooperation in the future. But I'm going to prioritize this cooperation, and I'm going to give priority to attending the meetings that we've now set up in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e2329	The whole point of the proposal made by the Skeie Committee on its own tripartite cooperation for equality was not that there should only be regular meetings where equality is on the agenda, but that such tripartite cooperation, which then has the task of working only with equality, would also have the means and means and money to implement measures. When I now hear the Council of State in the change of line, I interpret her to that point that she will not implement it. Therefore, I wonder: What has happened since 2015, when the Council of State was in opposition, and until today, when the Council of State is responsible for equality, which means that she believes that her own tripartite cooperation for equality – with instruments and with money – is suddenly not relevant?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e2336	We have established the cooperation, and there is money in it. We also have, as I say, these campaigns that we've already started, and then we've put down the Young People's Day Committee, which is about recruiting these professions. I think we have to assume that a large part of the pay gap is due to the fact that we still have a sex-shared labour market that we have, and it's interesting to see that we have the big differences between professions with quite equal education and training, but still quite different wages. So I think we need to recruit from the bottom of, and that race also the trade unions and employers' organisations have said that they are willing to join, to do so. Then we're going to see what that sample comes up with in the summer, or just after the summer, where they come up with measures, and then we're going to make an action plan, but we're also going to do that with the organizations.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e2343	I didn't have the honour and pleasure of working with the Minister and Trettebergstien on how to deal with what came out in the Skjeie Committee, so I deal with what is left's policy in the area. As I pointed out in my post, the Left Party wants to ask the social partners to help correct the gender pay gap by designing a timetable. The Party of the Left does not support such a proposal in the Chamber today. Is it, then, that the representative of the Trettebergstuen was involved in, the will or the impact it stands on, when you really don't want the parties themselves to take action here? I wish this wasn't really such a very difficult matter. With an adjustment from Stortinget, I think the parties had taken that task. Why can't you go in for what the left has decided to do?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e2349	This is not difficult. We've done it. The first meeting was held. We're going to continue working with the organizations.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e2354	I'm going to take different questions in one question, really. First of all, I wonder if the Council of State got that representative, Mr Wold, from one of the Council's cooperation parties, said in the Chair, where the representative actually denies the issue of value discrimination, because I think that is interesting. At the same time, we know that achieving equal pay will take between 50 and 100 years at the pace of the day. Some of the explanations behind the failure of the Left's gender mainstreaming policy may be related to the speeches by Mr Wold, who actually remedied the whole issue. Is it so that the Council of State can recognise – here it says – that there is a discrimination in value, such as: Does the lack of equal pay explain us today?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e2361	I think there are a lot of reasons why we have a lack of equal pay today. That's why we have as many measures as we have, among other things. through a third of the parental leave, which I think will affect pay. We see it through the reports we have now ordered, in order to take action to achieve a less gender-based labour market. We have it through the cooperation that we want to have with all the social partners, and we see that through the measures we have through programmes, for example. In order to get more men into the healthcare system and more women into technology – all the campaigns we also spend money on – we are making sure that we can get these guns right. I don't think we can wait, as the representative says, that this should go with 0.4 pst. per year, as it does right now, to combat the percentages. In the last year, 0.4 pst has been achieved. It's too slow. If we're really going to be able to turn this around, we also have to take some larger grip. That's why we come up with a new law on reporting in this area. That's why we come with these measures, that's why we set up the cooperation, and that's why we're making changes to the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e2366	The cord shift is with the change. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e2384	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that up to five lines of reply are given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e2393	Let me first thank the Committee for its effective and good cooperation on the position on this SV representative proposal on the right to a meaningful free time for all young people. The Committee agrees on a number of comments, and we stress that in a good society the right to a good and active growth is a fundamental element. I believe that in our days the strongest form of exclusion, perhaps also the strongest expression of poverty, is not that a lack of shelter over the head, clothing or fundamental necessities, but that one is being excluded from the leisure activities and community that other children and young people get to participate in. For this reason, the Committee also unanimously calls for special attention to be paid to the possibility for everyone, irrespective of the economy, to participate. The proposers also indicate that we have international obligations in this area – the Children’s Convention – and that it is both a national and a local responsibility to do so. There is no doubt that the most important thing in this policy is being implemented locally. That's where you create arenas, that's where you have the activities of the different organisations, that's where sports teams and leisure clubs have their arenas, and it's the municipal policy that contributes greatly to support schemes for leisure clubs, loan centres, youth organisation. The Committee believes that it is important that this remains a local responsibility, that it is unbureaucratic, that it is flexible and that each community can find good solutions. There may be quite a difference between recreational activities in the interior of a big city and in the outer parts of the coast, along the Finnmark coast or the West. It is important that local measures and arenas are adapted to the needs of children and young people. We have recorded that the Ministry is alerting a big message about youth policy, and we also have a volunteer message for consideration in the Committee, so that for both of the two cases there is an opportunity to do more concrete work than you might be able to do in dealing with a Document 8. The Ministry has replied to the committee that it sees the legislative obligation of municipalities to provide free and open leisure services as a measure that will reduce municipal autonomy, nor is there a majority in the committee for such legislation. We also know that the government has notified a leisure card for all children, and these are issues we will come back to in connection with the treatment of volunteering. But, in general, the Committee is quite in agreement with the overall policy. With regard to the Workers' Party's own comments, we are committed to the objective of organising good leisure activities for young people in local communities. In our alternative state budget, we have taken a number of measures both for facilities, for lending, for meeting places, for cultural cards, for VAT compensation and for support to the children's and youth organisations. Had that budget been adopted, those who provided for children and young people had a broader and better framework for their work. Together with SV, we have a proposal to ensure that a comprehensive plan is drawn up for equipment centres, a national survey of today’s services and guidance on quality, accessibility and child safety and privacy, including offers for young people with different disabilities. It is disappointing that it was not possible to obtain a majority in the Committee for this proposal. It does not impose binding leadership on local communities, but the authority and possibility of a Council of State to be a driving force for all young people to have access to such a centre of equipment would have been an effective measure to ensure that the economy was not a barrier to participation. Although Stortinget agrees with our proposal, I hope the Council of State steals the idea and makes it its own – we would like to share the honor with him if all children and young people in Norway receive such an offer. With that, I address the proposal to which the Labour Party is a co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e2414	The representative Trond Giske has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e2419	I do not believe anyone in this Chamber agrees with the intentions contained in the proposal by the three SV representatives. In that case, something else should surprise us all. The big difference is probably first and foremost how to ensure all the possibility of a meaningful leisure time. On the one hand, SV would like to legislate on leisure activities in all municipalities, with basic staffing and competence requirements – while inviting municipalities to design their own solutions together with volunteering. It's almost like the restaurant that advertises with an à la carte menu, and when you get in, they have one right on the menu. Not a big invitation to a lot of grassroots initiative and commitment lies here, in other words. The intention of the leisure declaration signed by the government, non-governmental organisations and KS in June 2016 was just to invite to local cooperation. For the Right, we believe in the local initiative, and we believe that municipalities are able to prioritise what is important to their citizens. I myself have been rapporteur in Moss for six years, a city located at the bottom of the overviews of tax receipts and state transfers, and a city that makes use of property taxes to make ends meet. Despite this, we took care of and cleaned up the leisure clubs we had, and established new offers under the direction of the municipality or together with the volunteering. This tells me that in the municipalities you are just able to take this responsibility. How a city like Moss solves this, the Council of State itself got to see when he visited the city and among other things. the leisure club Step-In yesterday. I am pleased with the good hand bill given to the municipalities over the state budget. In 2019, for example, set of nearly 37 million. kr to the subsidy scheme Children’s and young people’s actions in larger urban communities – open meeting places. This year, about 312 million have been set aside. SEK to the national grant scheme for the inclusion of children in low-income families. If we look at the central lending agencies, over 100 central banks in 2018 received a total of 22 million. kr i support. The approx. 270 loan agencies located around our country are an important contribution to increasing activity for many. As they are organized today, they also invite the width of the population into and do not seem stigmatizing. For the Right, we are pleased that the Council of State will ask Bufdir to assess a national survey of current quality and availability offers and guidelines. Government parties will point out that this review should be carried out in cooperation with the BUA, which organises a large number of current equipment centres, and thus also has a great deal of expertise and experience. In the same review, we also ask the Council of State to consider whether it should be opened up in order to allow the equipment centres operated by non-governmental organisations to apply for support for operations, and not just for the purchase of equipment. We know that many foundations and other sponsors like to contribute with equipment, but that several central banks at the same time struggle to secure the economy for good running in everyday life. After this proposal for a representative was presented on 6 November last year, the Christian People's Party has entered the government, and we have negotiated the Granavolden platform. One of many good measures in the area of our committee that has entered the platform is the leisure card. The government wants to introduce a leisure card for all between 6 and 19 years of age, such as: may be used to cover participating charges for recreational activities, following the pattern of a similar scheme in Iceland. The scheme shall be non-bureaucratic and it shall be possible for municipalities to spend money on top. This is likely to be the answer to many of the challenges raised in the proposal we are now discussing. It is therefore very premature when SV already remembers what the government has included or not in the leisure card scheme. In fact, SV has already established that, for example: cultural offers are not part of the scheme. I both believe and expect that the Council of State will run an open and inclusive process until the leisure card scheme is concluded and implemented. However, the Right’s starting point will be that a combination of local, real self-determination and state-focused efforts, such as: the leisure card, will be the good key to success.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e2440	As a local politician, I had a very strong commitment to our youth and, of course, to the children. I remember a decision in the municipality of Bergen very well. We decided to clean up New Krohnborg secondary school – the school I attended – to simply become a growing-up school. You have to arrange school for it to be an activity, even after school day is over, and it's become an exhibition project for the whole country. I am very proud that the Progress Party was in the driving position for it, and it should certainly be a great inspiration for local politicians elsewhere in the country to organise the use of school buildings even after working hours. As a social agency in Bergen, I also had a strong commitment to developing an activity card for children and young people. Unfortunately, there was a change of city council in Bergen, and the activity card did not quite get the device that was planned. We need to learn from that. An activity card must have a universal design. We do not want a card that gives a stigma to children and young people, where children and young people who have been given such a card simply do not dare to use it because it is referred to as a poverty card. We have a lot of good experience from municipalities in how to do it, and how not to do it. Having said that, I think it is important to emphasise the point that was made before today, that we should organise leisure activities for children and young people, and that must be done in many ways. We can, for example: imagine that all associations that are part of the Voluntary Register in Brønnøysund can enter into a system when, for example, relating to such an activity card — or leisure card as we have referred to it as in the Government Declaration. In 2016, the government, non-governmental organisations and the KS signed the Leisure Declaration. It was necessary to cooperate locally and nationally in order to involve all children and young people in at least one organised leisure activity, regardless of the social or economic situation of their parents. Of course, we're going to follow this up. In the government platform, we emphasise that work, good integration, safe and good housing conditions, good health services and inclusion in leisure activities are important for combating poverty. All of this is important. In order for young people in families who may not have such good advice to be able to participate in leisure activities with other children, we have now come a little way with this leisure card, which applies to children aged 6 to 18. Of course, in a good civil style, we want it to be as unbureaucratic a solution as possible, and that municipalities and others can adapt it in a good way. Estimates show that there may be as many as 100,000 children in Norway today growing up in low-income families. The number has been increasing since 2001, and much of the increase is due to families with low linguistic and labour skills and low social networks. Here we have to recognise that these are challenges. I want to underline the incredibly important efforts of the voluntary organisations out there. They work actively in our communities, every single day, and take this job very seriously. If you want to draw something out, you can for example: mention the ALLEMED network, which makes a great effort to include leisure activities in municipalities, and where the tool is used very actively by communities. There's a lot of positive happening, and a lot is based on the government's investment for families with bad advice. I look forward to continuing that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e2459	I would like to thank SV for including an important topic in this proposal for a representative. We in the Centre Party share – not surprisingly – the intentions of the proposers, probably with the entire House. A meaningful leisure time for young people is important. It is not only healthful, it also has preventive effects. We can just define it as meaningful. That is why I am pleased that there is variation in leisure activities for children and young people around our country, organised both through voluntary activities and through municipal measures and support schemes. How a municipality works in this area is an important part of the local policy debate and decisions. We in the Center Party are concerned that each municipality must have a great deal of freedom to design suitable solutions. Today, when the Central Party does not vote in favour of the SV proposals, this does not mean that we do not want meaningful leisure time for children and young people – we are, of course, absolutely for that – but we believe that the proposals are a bit too detailed. We in the Centre Party have confidence that the municipalities themselves are able to develop good leisure services – services that are tailored to local needs. The central party does not want there to be state leadership for what is a municipal responsibility. It is part of the story that in the Central Party we want a much larger financial framework for the municipalities, which we have shown is our priority, with several billion extras each year in our alternative budgets – in addition to a number of other strengths, among others. of volunteering and cultural participation. If the municipalities have a little more to walk with in addition to the statutory tasks, there are many examples of how many municipalities around the country get out of their cultural and leisure activities. But once again, it must be adapted to the local authorities' own assessments of what they should do. The Centre otherwise agrees with the proposers that equipment schemes and equipment centres are a well-functioning low-threshold service for children and young people, and many enjoy the lending arrangements in their municipalities. In addition, in this area, the central party believes that local authorities must have the freedom to organise the supply according to local needs and demand. However, it is important that equipment borrowed is of good quality and safe to use. That is why we have promoted our own proposal, which has a different wording from that of SVS, and which preserves local freedom. The government has notified a child and youth report. We in the Central Party expect the issues raised in the draft representative that we are debating here today to be further raised in that communication, with municipal autonomy as an important part. I look forward to that. With that, I take up the proposal of the Centre Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e2474	The representative of Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e2479	A short time ago, I visited The Raven, a leisure club at Romsås here in Oslo. One of the young people I met there, actually summed up very nicely why a real leisure offer is essential. He said that club was his life. The 2014 Culture Survey pointed to the libraries, the Culture School and the leisure clubs as the cultural base wall of our country – not just as any community leisure activities that are optional to carry out around, but as part of the cultural base wall. While both the libraries and the School of Culture are statutory offers in all the municipalities of the country, it is not leisure clubs. There are at least very few and rather weak national instruments for these clubs. There are considerable differences in the supply of children and young people. The Nordic counties, for example, which are not the largest county in Norway, have 56 recreational centres, while in the former North Trondelag counties there are no more than 16 centres. As many as 96 municipalities do not actually have such an offer at all. Both the reception that this proposal has received from the other parties show – at least for me – that the policy does not take youth, leisure services and the employees of the clubs seriously. Everyone stands on this platform and shouts for the good intentions, but no one chooses to listen to what the youth and the employees of the clubs say, and to what was stated in the Culture Survey, that there is a much clearer need for action here – a clear national policy is needed here. It seems to me that children and young people are not being listened to. The Convention on the Rights of the Child, ratified by Norway and incorporated in Norwegian law, states that the child’s right to rest, to free time and to participate freely in play, cultural and artistic activities shall be established. If this right is to be honoured, policies are needed. That is why SV has promoted the proposals we are discussing today. Establishing this right through a leisure policy is more important than ever. Now child poverty is increasing. Over 100,000 children grow up in poor families. Even ordinary families know the pressure on their wallets because their activities have become more expensive and expensive. But also the performance society, which has grown up in recent years, has made children and young people who grow up today need a breathing room, a place where they not only meet demands, but where they can be themselves. That is why we have proposed to strengthen the recreational clubs, in line with the rest of the cultural base wall. There is a need for open and free meeting places where young people can meet across the background and be included, where they can talk to safe adults, where there are cultural activities, mastering or just a breathing room. This is precisely what the employees of the clubs and young people ask for themselves – that there be some requirements for participation and competence, but that the municipalities otherwise have great freedom to design the offer according to local circumstances. In addition, we have proposed a cultural and activity discount card, which we have chosen to maintain after the government announced its activity card. This is about, for example: the things that Mr Hemdal said from the pulpit earlier today, and which I fully agree with, that it is important how to hit such a card in order for it to succeed. I agree entirely with all that the representative said that it must be a universal card to succeed. That is why we have finally also proposed guidelines for good equipment centres, so that we can remove expensive equipment as a threshold for children and young people to participate in sports and activities. There is also something that the equipment centres and those who work there have asked for. We take the youth's voice seriously, we take their spare time seriously, and therefore I will address all of the SV's proposals in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e2500	The representative Freddy André Supreme Court has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e2505	Yes, all children and young people should have the right to a meaningful leisure time, a leisure time that gives them the opportunity to master something outside of school, which gives them new experiences, a social network, joy and the opportunity to develop – yes, to allow everyone to spend their leisure time on whatever they want, and which is on their premises, yes to where, yes to information and yes to computer games. Let's take the youth seriously when it comes to their time, give them the opportunity to participate in a community that makes sense to them. For some, it's organized activities; for others, it's a skater that gives them the opportunity to skate when they want to, alone or with others. I mean, the Granavolden platform really takes the kids and the kids seriously. I am pleased that my Minister of Culture and the Government will now introduce a leisure card for everyone between the ages of 6 and 18. It is a very concrete response to the economic obstacles that prevent children from participating in leisure activities. But for the Left, it is also important to give them freedom. The leisure card shall be used to cover the participant’s fee for leisure activities, likely up to a given amount. This sum may be raised if the municipality itself wishes to invest in a local share. Today, there are large differences in the prices of leisure activities, and there are considerable differences between municipalities when arrangements are made to include more children in leisure services. There are fantastic systems in many places, with teams and organisations providing children from low-income families with exemptions from participant fees, or municipalities with equipment loans that make it easier to participate in the activities overall. But that means that children from families with poor finances have less freedom of choice than others. Some people don't get to do what they're most good at or really love, because the money doesn't go to and there's not a good enough support scheme for exactly what they think makes sense in their everyday lives. I hope that the leisure card will help change. It's going to be an entrance ticket to exactly the leisure activity they want, and it's not stigmatizing, because we're going to give all the kids the same ticket, regardless of their parents' wallet. By doing so, the government has accepted one of the three proposals of the SV, namely a grant scheme for discounts on cultural and leisure activities. It also responds to the proposal to provide children with free leisure services in all municipalities. I also fully agree that children and young people and their organisations should have even better access to common arenas and meeting places in their community. That is why this is also something left at local level. I want, for example, to bring Metropolis forward in Stavanger, which is a very good club example of how to facilitate activities that have just been initiated by the youth himself, on their own premises, in a good way. However, at the same time, all schools should be on the offer side in making their premises available for the leisure interests of young people, and it is therefore a pleasure to me that the Minister of Culture's volunteering has a separate chapter allocated to voluntary activities. There is also a clear signal: municipal and county premises available for evening and weekend leave should be available for volunteering when needed locally. The different equipment schemes in this country are very valuable contributions to lowering the threshold for participation in leisure activities. It is important that the schemes have a local connection, so that the needs of each municipality can be supported. Many of the centres are financed by the National Child Poverty Grant Scheme, which the government set up five years ago has tripled. The government is really betting on including children and young people together and giving them the opportunity to live a good life, free of poverty and social distress. In addition to the grant scheme against child poverty, the leisure card and the voluntary service, a Child and Youth Culture Communication shall be provided. There we're going to look at living conditions and prospects for children and young people. Overall, I believe that the government is really on track to ensure that children and young people in Norway have meaningful leisure time.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e2523	I am delighted to note that the proposers are equally committed to giving all young people a meaningful spare time as we are in the Christian People's Party. That's why we in Granavolden fought through a leisure card for all children between the ages of 6 and 18. It shall not be such that the size of the parents’ wallet determines whether the children are allowed to join the dance group, in the football or in the spear. When we know what it does to children to grow up outside, we realize that it's urgent to get concrete grips. In recent years, therefore, the Christian People's Party has increased appropriations through budget negotiations for holiday and leisure activities for those children who need it the most, and now that we have come into position, we have ensured that absolutely all children and young people will receive a leisure card that allows them to participate in leisure activities. I would say that this kind of participation is more important now than ever before, because we live at a time when the play in the street has almost disappeared. Kids no longer cycle around and call on doors to ask about playing in the same way that my generation did in its time. The leisure and social activities of children have become much more organised. As a local politician and a two-child mother, I have seen what participation in leisure activities means for belonging and for community construction, and simply as a healthy activity for children and young people. It's about discovering and developing talents in yourself and getting to know mastery when you master or learn something new. It's about learning social skills and maybe having a different role than the one you have in the class group at school. It's about team feeling and clapping in the backseat on the way to matches or shows and about common experiences that unite. For some people it might also be about meeting some other adults than parents and teachers, someone who sees other and good qualities in you, and who cheers them up. The Minister for Children and Family Affairs and the Minister for Culture are now working on this scheme and are in dialogue with voluntary actors to ensure that the card will become a resource for the benefit of both young people and volunteers. It is therefore premature, in the opinion of the Christian People's Party, to address the proposals made in this proposal for a representative, before the government has completed the process of the leisure card. Some have also recently proposed relocating leisure activities into school just after the school day is over, and the public should contribute to the pay of trainers, instructors and activity managers. It goes without saying that such a scheme will take place at the expense of the voluntary work and the activity offered after school. That is what we in the Christian People's Party believe is a bad idea. We don't have to add more activities to the school when we know that the school too many are associated with stress and pressure, and that the students will then only experience that the school days are going to be even longer. Such a scheme will also only help the public to take over the role of families. The Christian People's Party, on the other hand, wants to strengthen the freedom of choice of families and build around the voluntary offer that already exists. That is why we are now going to introduce a leisure card for all children and young people, a leisure card that should be used to pay quotas and attendance fees for the activities the children and their parents themselves want. It will be a universal and accurate arrangement that will really contribute to a meaningful leisure time for children and young people. We're happy to put the arrangement into life.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e2540	Active, safe and good leisure is important for children and young people. I share the commitment of all children and young people to participate and belong, to be included and given a meaningful leisure time. Children’s and youth organisations, recreational clubs, sport and cultural life are important meeting places for young people. All of this is needed, and it has to be made available to everyone. International studies show that young people are more lonely than before. It's a development that worries me. The government will therefore look at schemes that allow more children to participate in recreational activities, sports and outdoor activities. We have established this in our political platform. In the leisure statement, we have set the goal of allowing all children and young people to participate regularly in an activity together with peers in a community. We also need to draw up a leisure card for all children and young people between the ages of 6 and 18. This card shall be based on experience from Iceland and Norwegian municipalities, and it shall not be the wallet of mother and father who determines whether a person is able to take part in a leisure activity. I am therefore pleased that we got a pass on this precisely in the government platform. Together, we have a responsibility to ensure that everyone is welcomed and included when looking for an activity or an organisation. We should be aware that the threshold can be high for someone. In the case of recreational clubs and activity houses, the government will continue to support it financially through grant schemes to open meeting places. For many years, we have seen the importance of leisure clubs for local communities and for youth membership and participation in practice. We recommend that municipalities take into account the leisure situation of young people in their planning. However, this government does not believe that the grip that binds the municipalities, through e.g. a law-enforcement, is the right way to go. Loans for equipment used in various activities are important measures to reduce costs of participation. Re-use is also environmentally friendly. In 2018, the government has raised more than 22 million. kr to equipment centres. I assume, of course, that the equipment that is being borrowed is safe and of good quality, and that the privacy of the child is respected. I would like to ask Bufdir to consider the proposals for monitoring today's services, guidelines on quality and accessibility for children and young people with disabilities. I would also like to ask Bufdir to assess whether equipment centres operated by non-governmental organisations should be able to receive operating support. I am pleased that the Committee is committed to discussing the living conditions and prospects of young people. Like the committee, I want to listen to the youth's own voice. I want to have a good dialogue with young people in the future and have already received many input at different meetings, as well as from the children's and youth organisations through the annual contact conference. I would also like to take advantage of the recordings made by Stortinget during the examination of this proposal for a representative, in order to create the best possible youth policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e2559	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e2564	For a time, it was revealed that during the Right–Fremskritsparti-government, there have been 100,000 poor children in Norway. I know this is a matter that affects both the Council of State and his party so much that they chose to join this government that has contributed to the fact that there have been 100,000 poor children, and hopefully they will change this course. One way we can help these children and young people is to make sure that they have access to equipment — what enables them to participate in sports activities, be with other children on the ski day, be involved in what happens in the community. We have proposed that monitoring be carried out, that a comprehensive plan be drawn up and that guidance be given. This is not adopted at the main hall, but there is full freedom for the Council of State to follow it up. And my question is, what can the Council of State do to follow up this proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e2573	I thank you for a constructive and good question and fully share this commitment. We need to do more to combat children growing up in persistent poverty. There we fully agree on the most important structural measures. But it's about doing something about the situation here and now and ensuring participation. Then we know that equipment is important. So I would like to ask Bufdir to consider the concrete proposal for monitoring today's offers and also guidelines for quality. I would also ask them to look at accessibility for children and young people with disabilities. I think it's important to look at that. That's why I want to follow it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e2580	I thank you for your answer and look forward to such a follow-up. This is an important thing, I'd say it's a low-hanging fruit that can help many. Both the state councils and I live in time together as young children’s parents. Eventually, we'll have schoolchildren. One way to facilitate more children and the leisure activities of young people is to contribute some of this activity to the extra time that young people have at school. We have an SFO system, we have hours that aren't teaching. We heard that the representative of the Christian People's Party was involved in this in his post instead. But for too many families it would create a calmer and better afternoon and evening — with time to be together — if cultural school activity or some of the sports activities could have been done in school. Although it is not his area – is it a development that the Council of State supports and, if so, will contribute to the College of Government to which he belongs?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e2589	I will honestly admit that personally I see many advantages of thinking in that direction, but I fully agree with the Christian People's Party representative. I'd warn you not to go in that direction if you think that instead of having leisure activities with volunteers who are trainers and managers, who run activities for children and young people, you're going to make it public and work for the public to put in leisure activities. I have no objection that anyone might find good solutions locally – if a leader thinks it is super much rather to have the course or activity in school, that it is included in the SFO. But to put a state rule to put more into the SFO and the AKS I would warn against. I think it's also a little bit about ideology. We need more volunteers, we need more parents – even if it takes a little time and effort – who choose to be football runners and leaders, because there's something amazing about society. I'd say it's an important value in society, and it makes even more people care about others. So I'd rather cheer that up.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e2594	In my post I mentioned that in all of what is described as the cultural base wall, that is, one of the most important things we have to give good cultural experiences and activities to, among other things. children and young people, we have three parts, according to the Cultural Investigation 2014. There we have the libraries, they're important, we have the cultural schools, they're also important, and then finally we have the recreational clubs/activity houses, which are also pointed to as part of this base wall. Nevertheless, it is the only part of the core wall that has no clear national political leadership, for example, is not statutory. Now we've heard from both the government councils and several other government parties' representatives here in the hall that it's totally inappropriate for them to do something more about the framework of these clubs. Why does the Council of State think that these clubs are not as important as the other two parts of the core wall — to have national leadership to secure them?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e2607	We have national schemes and grants through the Open Meeting Grant Scheme, one of which includes: may receive support. And as the representative Pettersen mentioned earlier, yesterday I was allowed to visit a youth club in Moss that has a fantastic offer. But that's how it is, and I'm glad that the entire committee, except SV, agrees, that it would not be appropriate to legislate for such an offer. I heard the representative talk about the number of municipalities that did not have a public youth club. Then it is worth remembering that in some municipalities there are well-functioning voluntary activities where a municipal offer might not fit, that the young people like a different offer. I have strong faith that someone will find good solutions locally, and I am very grateful and pleased with the municipalities that do, and that it is the best way. But I would also like to warn you a little bit about one sitting here and thinking about it as a thinker is the best thing in all municipalities, because there is a big difference between the different municipalities and different offers that already exist in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e2614	Thanks for the answer. I think the Council of State has to read the proposal that SV has promoted, a little bit more carefully, because this is not about controlling how the municipalities are going to solve this task, it's about saying that the municipalities have to solve this task. Many municipalities – I know several myself – do not have an offer that is good enough, and many municipalities do not have an offer at all. If voluntary forces together with the municipality can solve this offer, I fully support it, and it also opens this proposal, but it says that at least it has to be resolved. This is about children and young people around seeing a need, a need many municipalities do not meet. This is a group that has no voting rights that we have. Therefore, it is particularly important that we listen to the voice of children and young people, and not least to the voice of employees. Finally, a quick question – The leisure statement is a comprehensive measure, but the members of the club ask: why not use the infrastructure in the leisure clubs, there?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e2624	There were several things here, but I have read SV's suggestions carefully, and I think it's a little inconsistent. One points to a law enforcement as a way of doing it, but then you have to have municipal freedom to design it. It's clear you can say that you're going to have your own youth club, and then the municipality can do the rest. But in the same proposal you also say that you should have basic staffing and competence requirements. This means, for example: that one cannot have a public youth club run by volunteers because one must have basic crew requirements and competence requirements. I still want to say that the municipalities are doing this in a very good way. Then there is also a youth council around the different municipalities, and I'm sure the municipal politicians want to listen. If they do not, I hope there will be a rebellion in that municipality, and that someone will do something with whom they will be elected. But this must be a local freedom, and there is some of the great things in Norway. There are great differences, and I owe on different initiatives, and then one has to decide locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e2631	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e2638	To the last thing that the state council is now responding to. He says, "I hope there's going to be an uproar." It's people who don't have the right to vote, we're talking about now, it's children and young people. They could probably rebel, but it would have been more responsible if we had made sure they actually had this right. When the government wants to secure the activity card, I also expect it to believe that the offer on which the activity card is to be used cannot be too narrow. Because there is a risk that there are very few activities in some places, and that it only appeals to the most broken or to those who are good at playing an instrument and such things. Some people may want other activities and leisure activities, such as leisure clubs. That is the purpose of our proposal: to get this as a broader offer to many. So to the discussion about getting some leisure activities into school day. The kids are at school. The parents are at work. The question is whether we should add some of the opportunities for leisure activities to the school day, so that you can avoid the stress in the afternoon. I do not share the concern that this should in any way reduce the efforts of volunteers or want to do something. On the contrary, I think it will release some resources. Not least, it will ease the pressure on many families with young children and will also ensure an offer to some of the children who do not otherwise receive such an offer, including those who do not. because they do not live near the leisure facility. They're on the school vacation scheme, take the school bus home, and there's nothing. I know many children who live far away from such offers, and who have no chance of transporting themselves by sea, because there's only one bus, and that's the school bus, and if you're not in it, you don't have a chance. So I ask representatives from the Christian People's Party to think new about this, and not look at this as any threat at all. Finally, I am very concerned that the recreational services available should also be open to children and young people with disabilities. It is very important that you do not establish your own offers for these, but that they are included in the offer to the others. They have exactly the same needs as other children, but they need some organization and help to meet the same needs as other children do. I can also say that I want to contact the Council of State to establish, among other things. an app that some parents have developed to make available the leisure services available to, among others: people with developmental disabilities, who need a slightly different organisation to make use of the available services.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e2653	Finally, I look forward to that dialogue. It sounds like a good order. I was challenged about the leisure card. As several different speakers here have said, we are concerned about finding the best way for children and young people to participate in the activities they want. Then you have to create frames. But this isn't scrambled. The case rapporteur challenged at first, and we are very open to listening and have many recording meetings. We're working on this in the future. I imagine a model that is about how to create fellowship. I think the representative, Gleditsch Lossius, said it very well, that the opportunity you have to make friends, to have a social network, is quite unique. So I'm at least concerned that the activities should give something more than just that you got to be involved in something – and that was it – but that it, for example. is a continuous activity over a longer period of time. I think that would be tricked, and then you have to look at what's to be included. In the case of SFO and AKS, it's not like everyone's there. And there are great regional differences in how things are organized. I'm very clear that if you find good solutions at the local level, it's very top, but automatically putting in activities from the state side and saying that's how to do it, I'm against it. There are actions, as I said, ideologically, because one does something automatically when there are public employees, which were well the starting point of the Workers' Party's election and the proposal that they are going to discuss this weekend, versus that as parents or other adults – or young people, for that matter – want to be trainers and leaders and contribute to creating a good childhood and youth. If you add some activities to the SFO, you won't be able to get all the activities. Maybe you're taking handball and football, because there's a lot of people doing, and maybe not the speed, swimming, or the choir. It could be that they are losing towards the activities that there were many more at the SFO that went on. In this way, you get government governance of volunteering. We'd like to discuss how to help SFO, when children and young people are first there, be the best possible, but I don't want to state or publish the volunteer.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e2664	I think the government has a little too simple rejection of extending school day and including more of these activities in school. It's also about what kind of school we're going to have, whether we're going to have a school that has more of this type of activity, more art and culture, more aesthetic subjects, more movement and physical activity in school day, so that you can blend it in a better way, and get a school that's more adapted to all kids. This has several sides to it, and I want the Council of State to look at that side of it. It's very difficult to squeeze in more of the good things that we all say we want, if we don't watch the school day expand. Then we can beat several flies in one taste and also get to a less stressful everyday life for the families – it’s SV busy. So to this with the activity card: I probably share the wish that the activity card will contribute to inclusion and to activities that are continuous, but it may also be that some of these young people or children need to invite a friend or grandfather to the cinema once, or go to the swimming pool. It's very expensive in many places. It's not like you have to go to the swimming club to join in. It could be that it's just a leisure activity you want to do sometimes. Be a little open on this! I think that also those children who are struggling, and who have parents with poor advice, need to make some choices about what they are going to do. Most other children can do so in families where there is money for pocket money or to ‘today I want to go to cinema’ requests. We also have to keep it in mind about such an activity card, because it's part of being able to choose something over something else and part of being able to grow up and make some choices on your own premises in the future. So I'm asking the government council to think about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e2673	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e2689	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that up to five lines of reply are given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e2698	I would like to thank the Cooperation Committee as the rapporteur for the draft representative of the Landfill Representatives Freddy André Øvstegård, Karin Andersen and Audun Lysbakken on the Children's Protection Lift II. The committee had written consultations on the proposal, with a deadline of 31 January, and as far as I have registered, no written submissions to the committee have been received within the time limit. It has not been said that the theme does not take up or engage, because the representatives of the SV address important issues and promote three concrete proposals, which aim to increase the staffing of municipal child protection – a four-year plan of escalation with earmarked funds, to assess an indicative recruitment standard in which case handlers should have no more than 15 cases, and to establish a lower recruitment limit in municipal child protection. Our Committee agrees with the proposers that children and young people who are at risk of care failure are one of the most vulnerable groups in society, and it is our job to ensure that they receive good help at the right time. Furthermore, the Committee considers that the quality of child protection should not be localised. Variations in the quality of municipal child protection services are unfortunate. All children shall have an equivalent offer. On behalf of the Committee, I would also like to stress that children and young people who are under the care of child protection must have a good support system around them, with professionally qualified staff who care for their rights, interests and needs. We in the Committee all agree that these children must be provided with a good aid. On the other hand, we do not always agree on the instruments. The respective parties may make their views known in their submissions. Afterwards, I will go into the opinions and suggestions of the Centre Party. We in the Central Party do not disagree with the intention of the proposal and share the concern. We see, in line with the proposers, the need to increase the staffing of municipal child protection. In some places, there is a high level of penetration, a high level of sick leave, work pressure and a long period of time. These are factors affecting both the quality and the ability of employees to provide good and sound services. The Joint Organisation and the Children’s Ombudsman have pointed out on several occasions that child protection needs to be provided with more staff. It is therefore strange, almost incomprehensible, that the government does not take these signals seriously. The centre party believes that a stepping-up plan is necessary to increase staffing, but we disagree that earmarked funds are the solution, as designation often leads to more bureaucracy. We have therefore put forward our own proposal asking the government to draw up a stepping-up plan with the aim of increasing staffing. In addition, we are promoting proposals such as: is designed to change the model of child protection management, where Bufeta's regional tasks are transferred to the county municipalities, where Bufdir is laid down and the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality is given the overall responsibility of legislator, budgetary officer and organiser of control and supervisory tasks, and where the role of the State as control and supervisory authority is strengthened. It is a little remarkable that the government that launched the regional reform, with a child and family minister from the Christian People's Party, a party that is truly committed to regional reform, does not follow the recommendations of its own expert committee on the tasks to be decentralised and transferred to the regions and municipalities. The committee proposed, among other things: – as the Centre Party – to deposit Bufetat and transfer its tasks to the counties. The government does not follow the recommendation of the expert committee, but instead chooses to re-examine whether the transfer of Bufatat's tasks in the protection of children to the county council will provide a reinforced offer to vulnerable children and families. We in the Center Party believe that transferring tasks in this field to a regional level could be quite as beneficial qualitative. We look forward to that investigation, because a larger reorganization can help, as unfortunately there is a lot of evidence that parts of the system in the field of child protection – not only the lack of staff – need to be greatly improved, among other things. seen in the light of the recent Health Authority report ‘Traveling washes the eyes’ and the NOU on foster homes. We're asked if we don't have to think a little bit more about child protection. With that in mind, I take up the proposal of the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e2719	Then the representative of Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen addressed the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e2724	Thanks to the SV for promoting this proposal for a representative, because it is an important proposal. The Family and Culture Committee at Stortinget is concerned with child protection, and that's very good. They are committed to improving measures for children and young people receiving child protection. So I think that if the government had been a little bit more forward-looking and the Council of State a little bit more at stake, we could have got a lot of unanimous proposals here that would have improved the service quite radically. But goals and good words are not enough for these children. They live their days out here and now – yesterday, today and tomorrow. It's in terms of measures, we're separating layers. The Labour Party believes that we need more jobs because the children and the parents in the Child Protection Service need them. The working party has therefore followed up the child protection promise from 2011 with earmarked posts for municipal child protection. If, as the government does, we just leave this to the municipalities, we're going to get big differences in the municipalities, precisely because people and politicians have different priorities, and also because the municipalities have different finances. Before the Christian People's Party came into government, both the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party listened to ideal actors, children and parents with experience, child protection, the Joint Organisation and the Trade Union, who say there is a need for more earmarked positions, and both the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party proposed it in their alternative budgets. It was that time and not now. Now the Christian People's Party is in government, and then it's some of the Christian People's Party's left on the doorstep. Now there is a lot of talk about needs other than jobs in the sector, hoping to decorate the government's lack of initiative. But it's transparent. The votes are clear. The message is repeated and repeated – by the Children’s Ombudsman, the #heierna campaign, ideal actions, the children themselves and their parents. There is a need for more ear-marked jobs, and we politicians do not need to set up competences and positions against each other. It's not a good polemic for the kids in the Child Welfare Service. There is a need for stepping up and for a strong commitment to child protection, and the need will increase the longer it takes for the government to take strong action. That's what's going on. That's what's going on. The Labour Party has therefore drawn up a proposal to be discussed later in this Chamber. Let it just be said also from this pulpit: Someone has tried to so little doubt about the Workers' Party's willingness to have a crew norm. That's what we want. We've said we'll investigate it, but it's going to happen in cooperation with the parties, and that's why we don't want to control it in detail from the Stockholm pulpit. We have, and we want, annual appropriations for earmarked child protection posts, and the escalation that we think is necessary in child protection, we think we need more than four years. The Labour Party has therefore decided in its group to present a comprehensive representative proposal because more efforts and reforms are needed in several areas, including: in the case of posts, but also in the case of the rights of the children and their parents, which need to be strengthened. Legal certainty needs to be improved, better organisation and training needs to be strengthened in essential areas. Therefore, we do not vote in favour of any of the proposals in this case today. We think there is a need for so much more, and we want to see this in that context when we deliver, and debate, the proposal that is now under consideration in the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e2739	It is important to ensure that children and young people have good growth conditions and good care. Children and young people who have failed care are the most vulnerable groups in society. It's our job to make sure they get good help at the right time. Children and young people under the care of child protection must have a good supporting device around them. They shall have professionally qualified staff who respect their rights, interests and needs, and the quality of child protection shall not depend on where they live. Thank you to SV, who brings up child-restraint once again in this committee. Staff standards are now on the agenda, and there is a stepping-up plan and earmarking of funds, and they also ask the government in the context of the new Child Protection Act to propose a statutory right to follow-up until the age of 25. The latter will be proposed by the government in the new Children's Protection Act. As I said, we've discussed child protection many times, and we're also going to continue to discuss it, including. in connection with the Workers' Party's Document 8, which has a slightly wider approach than this, and not least when we get a new Child Protection Act. Children and families receiving child protection often need a wide range of assistance services. Good child protection requires several services that need to contribute to action. The burden of child protection is often linked to access to other services in the municipality providing family support and follow-up to children and young people. The majority of the Committee, consisting of the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party, are aware that several child protection leaders and employees in some municipalities face major capacity challenges. The action #hei have just focused on the working conditions of employees in the protection of children. That being said, I would say that municipal child protection has been strengthened during this government. We have continued earmarked funds for positions in municipal child protection, and in addition, municipalities have been given an increase in the framework. In fact, during the period 2013–2017, there has been an increase of over 1,100 annual work in the Child Protection Service, so something has happened. Evolution is moving forward. The right considers that municipalities must have the freedom to organise their services in such a way as to draw exchangers on the competences they have in the municipality, and the instruments they see are necessary. Some municipalities want to invest heavily in prevention and then want to turn the funds against it, for example. strengthening the provision of health centre services and the care of midwives. Other municipalities have other bets. We also refer to letters from the Council of State, which point out that there is no clear link between the number of cases per case handler and the challenges in the municipalities that are most struggling to put in place a good child protection service. Through the work of the new Children's Protection Act, the government will among other things. propose introducing annual reporting requirements to the local authority on the state of child protection. This is to increase policy-makers’ knowledge of what is happening in the child protection service, and not least what is important in order to increase quality. I have been a municipal politician myself, and I rarely remember having taken up the state of child protection. There are often things that are not promoted in the city board or local government. You have to do that now. I believe that this will lead to awareness among local politicians that this is an area that needs to be given priority. In addition, the county councillors have been given the task of holding meetings with all municipalities to discuss the situation of child protection services. So it's not obvious that central governance through designation of positions is the only solution – or recruitment standards. We believe, first and foremost, that municipalities need to assess the need for the number of employees and how the offer is to be developed.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e2762	I must say that I fully agree with Mr Johnsen's representative that, of course, municipal politicians have a great responsibility for child protection. That was where my commitment to child protection began, and then in Bergen the municipality. There it does very well, but of course we've also had examples there that haven't been quite lucky. However, the Bergen City Council has regularly been briefed on the situation in the field of child protection and has also made its own decisions on, among other things. Review of individual matters to learn more about how child protection does its job and how we can get better. I think that's a good thing for municipal politicians, just like big-time politicians. Now I haven't been in the military, but you often hear about the term "counters" and how to do clothes. You might not have to just draw that comparison too far, the counting edges on the clothes are luckily something quite different than a standard of manning. Of course, it makes sense to make sure that the soldiers have what they need, but the world may not be as simple in terms of child protection. Organisation management often talks about getting what you measure, and if you measure factors other than those that are really important, the organisation tends to behave like it's what you measure, which is the most important thing. In other words, if we introduce the wrong goal, we don't get the best child protection. To me, it is quite clear that good child protection is one of the most important things that politicians have to provide. This is independent of whether it's here at Stortinget. In fact, county politicians think a lot about child protection, and, of course, local politicians out there in the municipalities. It's just those who have been failed by their closest, who need our help all, most of all. They need the care that the closest ones may not have been able to give, but that we as society must try to give them. I would like to mention a small example: we humans are not the same, we are all unique and different – thanks to higher powers for that. But child protection is just designed so that you have to remember that children are also individuals. We all have different stories, we all have different needs, and these children have to be viewed as individuals, like everyone else in society. Then it's bad with just counting edges. I'll give you another little example. Wild people at the National Children's Protection Association were one of the first people I met as a new staging representative. One of their recordings was that you had to extend the post-protection until the age of 25, which I said was absolutely going to use my political pondus in here to try to help them with. I can promise you that it was quite toasty in their premises when, among other things, me and others. Prime Minister Erna Solberg before Christmas visited them to announce the good news, so I naturally support an extension of post-protection. It's perhaps one of the strongest Christmas presents I've ever been on as far as representative. It is clear that it will mean a lot, and I am proud to belong to a Progress Party that has been strong in that fight. With regard to the other proposals that have been put forward, I am more sceptical. Designation is tempting to propose in many areas. And what happens when more and more services are financed by the eartag? Then we take away all the opportunity to see the individual, we reduce the local space for action, and, not least, we actually restrict local democracy. I think the representative Örmen Johnsen went through a lot of the measures that the government has put in, among other things. the increase in the number of child-restraint workers that that government has just helped implement. There are several issues related to child-restraint treatment, in the time to come. I think it'll be demanding, but also very important and useful discussions, so I look forward to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e2779	Giving children care and protection when they do not get it from their parents is a critically important service. Children who experience home failure must not be confronted with social betrayal when they need our help. Therefore, child protection is likely to do the most important job in our society, and it is thanks to all the important employees who go to work every day – for the children. But the child protection employees have recently made it very clear that they cannot do their job properly. There is a child protection uprising, and employees call it a national warning – a warning that they do not have enough time to see and help each child in a good enough way, that they have too little time to come in early enough, and that they have too little time to let them participate in the way they claim. 80 pst. employees say they have too many cases and too little time to do a good enough job. This is serious, for example. of the two girls five and nine years old from the West, who have both been the victims of violence, and have been witnesses of violence. The alarm message remains for two months before child protection comes into contact with the children and their parents, because the case handlers do not have the capacity to handle more cases. It is about the four- and five-year-olds from Eastern Europe who have had six different contact persons in one year. They have been exposed to follow-up family councils for seven months due to lack of capacity. It's about the family with three children from the West. Due to the constant health and high labour pressure of child-restraint workers, the children and the family meet four different case handlers when the family needs to be examined. It is about the two boys aged six and twelve in the East who had to wait five months before child protection had the capacity to deploy measures from municipal child protection. Or it's about the boy of nine years and the report of concern about violence that was not addressed in two months because there were too few case handlers. If we are to have fewer such stories and more success stories, as Erna Solberg called it in his New Year's speech, we must have enough people at work. Then we have to listen to the employees, to the Children's Ombudsman and to the children's own organisations, and then we have to do something. When SV directed the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality, we found out that there was a shortage of 1,500 employees in the municipal child protection service. That's why we started a escalation with ear-marked means of manning. It was called the Child Protection Lift, and nearly 1,000 new posts were created before the government took over – and later this child protection promise was cancelled before we were in the finish line. Since then, there have been no fewer cases; there have also been more demands on employees – many important and good demands as well – but the government has not yet been able to respond to the need for more jobs today. But one example from a specific child protection service might help to show the need, so here are some figures: The Child Protection in Stavanger received 17 new jobs in 2014. It came from the SV Children's Protection Lift. Since then, under this government, they have received two new posts – two new posts, both of which came from the municipality. But in the meantime, the need has increased by 20 pst. Then they have calculated that they need 15 new jobs to meet that need. Stavanger is far from unique. It shows the need for a new child-restraint lift, and that is exactly what SV has proposed today. A new escalation with earmarked funds is needed for more child protection positions, and we will combine this with an indicative staffing standard for the number of children between 9 and 15 per employee, adapted to local circumstances. In addition, we should work out a lower limit on the number of employees. Child protection is one of society's most important jobs. Providing child protection and care is a critical service. Therefore, we cannot accept the disclaimer it is from national authorities that this should only be up to the municipalities, because we cannot accept differences in the quality of child protection based on where you live. It was the policy of the red-green government. I am recording that some of the other red-green parties believe it is going too far today. I think that is very regrettable. But SV must at least fight further for more child protection positions. I'm addressing SV's suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e2811	The representative Freddy André Supreme Court has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e2816	When it comes to caring for children who have failed, only the best is good enough. Children who, for various reasons, end up in child protection shall meet with love and professional and safe adults who are capable of their occupation. Each child is different and has his or her own history. For the Left, it is important that child protection has the skills and resources to see each individual and to provide adapted follow-up. Strengthening child protection is a matter that really brings together the four government parties, and is something that I know I am not alone about burning for. That's why I don't remember what from SV to SV is a scare image of this government's commitment to child protection. In 2017, the then Minister for Child Protection, Solveig Horne, presented a child protection reform that would provide early and more adapted assistance to vulnerable children and families. In addition, we carried out a quality and competence reform in municipal child protection. The left believes it is essential that children should not receive a lower level of child protection because they live in ‘wrong’ municipalities. That is why the emphasis on competence is so important. It balances differences and raises the quality. In 2018 it was set at 80 million. the strengthening of the competences of municipal child protection, and the strengthening of competences is an important contribution to this government cooperation. Since 2013, there has been an increase of over 1,100 child-restraints. The increase is a result of both government designation and local authorities’ own priorities. So we're focusing on both competences and resources, but it's important and right that municipalities also play an active role in the work. That's all, after all, where child-restraint work is most often done, and that's where you know where the shoe prints. In addition, important changes have been made when it comes to legislation, changes that really matter. Left puts the children first. We must remember that child protection exists for the children – not the other way around. Last year, the Children's Protection Act became a law on rights. It was an important step that was about taking the children seriously. Now there is also a completely new child protection law on the stairs, and the government has notified them, among other things. propose that the child-restraint child-restraint should be given a statutory right to follow-up until 25 years of age. Like the representative from the Progress Party, I was also present when this news was handed over to one of the organisations, and I am really proud that this government is going to bring this up. It is a long-term measure that will make the transition to adult life softer and better for many. These changes reflect a turn of focus on children and their individual rights and needs. The new Child Protection Act will also introduce some mechanisms that will help to strengthen the quality and control of municipal child protection, while at the same time providing room for local differences. The government wants to report annually to the local council on the state of child protection and that the county councillors carry out meetings with all municipalities to discuss the situation of child protection services. This is how local elected representatives will gain greater knowledge and ownership of the service and thus have far better opportunity to follow it up, as the representative from the Right was in. Indeed, it should not be the case that child-restraint cases end up in Stortingen for a solution, for the best decisions are taken by professionals locally. The left will therefore not vote in favour of the SV’s proposal today, but looks forward to the new Child Protection Act and the follow-up to the plans already put in place by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e2833	Our most important task as politicians and legislators is to work for a safe and healthy upbringing for our children. The Christian People's Party is concerned that families should receive the help and support they need to give their children the care and love they deserve. Unfortunately, not all parents are able to give their children what they need. In some cases the home also becomes a dangerous place to be for the child. We say that a good childhood lasts a lifetime, but it can certainly also hurt the wounds of a bad childhood. That's why it's vital that we have a child protection that works at all, at the very best. Just because a safe upbringing for children should be such an important political priority, I am glad that both publicly and politically there is a great commitment to child protection. Although there may be some disagreement about the challenge to be addressed first, there is a broad consensus that child protection must be given priority and raised in the future. We know what all the hard-working and competent socionomists and child protection educators mean for children who face child protection, and also how the interaction with health centres, schools and other agencies is crucial to both preventing and tackling the challenges that children face. That's why it's time to listen to those who wear the shoes, listen to all the adults who do everything they can every day to help children's protection and give them a safe everyday life and a future. Here I know that the Minister for Children and Family is in good shape. Governments have announced that a new Children’s Protection Act is in progress and that the government will continue to invest in enhanced staffing, competence and family protection. In addition to listening to those who wear the shoes, we have to be confident that local politicians know their municipality's child protection best. The scope and nature of the child protection challenges vary, and thus municipalities must be able, in addition to being well informed, to continuously assess the priorities necessary to ensure that the child protection service is the most competently composed and properly manned at all times. I am therefore in favour of a comprehensive treatment of the Child Protection Act, which I expect will also meet several of the main concerns of the proposers.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e2845	All children and young people deserve a good upbringing. I am therefore pleased that the Stortinget wants a debate on how we can ensure that children who are subjected to care failure, to violence and abuse, can get the best possible offer, no matter where in the country they live. I would like to say to Mr Henriksen that I am forward. Despite the fact that I have only had two months in the State Council chair, the government will shortly be sending out proposals for a new Child Protection Act at the hearing. Here we will, among other things: propose a statutory right to follow-up protection for young people in the field of child protection up to the age of 25 as requested by the proposers. I agree that enough employees with the right skills are essential for child protection to be able to follow up children and families in a good manner. I take seriously that many child protection services report high labour pressure. At the same time, I believe that the concrete assessments of the adequacy of the staffing of child protection services should be resolved locally. It is the individual municipality that is in the best position to prioritize resources and actions where the need and benefits are greatest. It is important that municipalities have the freedom to assess how the overall supply of vulnerable children and families can best be strengthened and organised, and whether more employees are needed in the field of child protection or whether efforts should be made elsewhere. The government shall facilitate the proper management of its responsibilities by the municipalities. We have considerably strengthened the local economy. There are record few municipalities on the ROBEK list, and the municipalities have done a great job recruiting more people in child protection. I will follow child protection in the municipalities closely, and one of the proposals in the new Child Protection Act is that the status of child protection services should be regularly assessed in the individual local authorities. The community has discussions with the management of all municipalities to discuss the situation and staffing of the Child Welfare Service. This will give us and each municipality a better understanding of how child protection is given priority, the challenges that need to be addressed, and what action should be taken, if appropriate. The capacity of municipal child protection has been improved during this government. From 2013 until 2017 there were 1,150 more employees in the municipal child protection system. It's a higher annual growth than under the red-green government, and it shows that we're on the right track. In addition, we have ensured that the Child Welfare Service has improved access to skills and other professional support. We are also active inside and follow up the municipalities that work the most. In view of this, I do not think it is appropriate to draw up a stepping-up plan for earmarked products. Nor do I think it is appropriate to introduce an indicative staffing standard and unearthed minimum requirements for the number of annual work in the Child Welfare Service.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e2862	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e2867	I find it regrettable that the Council of State is so backward and not forward-looking, as he himself believes he is in addressing the major problems of child protection. I have brought with me some of the reports that the government has also ordered, which show obvious deficiencies in child protection. Many of the shortcomings are about time. Can not open message There are measures being put in the drawer. It's the failure and the betrayal report. It's Vista Analysis, talking about 'debt on the way'. I could ram a lot. There is no evidence that the government lacks knowledge of these issues in the field of child protection, nor that quality is about time. What is it that prevents the government and the minister from taking the necessary steps to address the lack of time in child protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e2872	As I said in my post, I am very concerned with staffing. That is why I am pleased that the increase in staff under this government has been higher every year than under the red-green government. If the only solution is that one has to have earmarks, it at least gave greater results under this government than under the previous government, and it is thanks to the municipalities that have prioritised it. When we are about to send a new Child Protection Act to the hearing in a short time, I am, as I said, concerned that the municipalities will go through the situation in their municipality every year. I am absolutely convinced that when the municipalities deal with matters, get an overview of the state, and we also get the overview, that if the most important measure is to employ more people, they will do so. If there are other measures that can be better in each municipality to prevent even better — which, after all, is the most important thing — they can have that freedom rather than an eartag or use the norm.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e2879	These reports are about the children in child protection now – yesterday, today and tomorrow. They can't wait for any more plans. It's a little strange that when the Christian People's Party was in opposition, it was important to get positions from the state to municipal child protection, but as soon as the council that has now entered the government, launched its five grips on child protection, the need for employees was removed. Then, all of a sudden, municipal autonomy is the most important thing. I can't free myself to think that this is about economic priorities. As I said, if the Council of State had been very forward-looking, I am absolutely sure that he would have had a unanimous increase in the number of child protection posts. Why does the Council of State not listen to the Children’s Ombudsman and organisations to a greater extent, for example. #hei and employees who think there is a need for more jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e2884	I really hope that the representative can listen to what I am trying to answer, because I am busy with staffing. That's why I'm glad that the increase in staff has been stronger during this government, if you look at the annual growth, than under the previous government. I think that is because the municipalities are concerned that you should ensure a good offer. However, we are very aware that in some municipalities it is not good enough, and therefore we have implemented various measures, either to help, to provide guidance or to increase competence, or that municipalities choose other solutions to ensure that child protection is even better. When we are going to consult on new child protection laws, we are concerned that child protection should be optimised. That matter is going to be at least as thick as the report base of the representative. It's not just a quick fix, it's not just a single solution. Manning is important. That is why I am pleased that the increase is greater. Competence is important, but I also believe in organization. The fact that municipalities get even more responsibility and do an even bigger job of prevention, I think will be important to improve child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e2891	The numerical representation of child protection positions has been discussed before from this pulpit. The Investigation Section has provided an overview of how these positions have been put in place in municipal child protection. It may be too short for the Council of State to explain the way he calculates, but the investigation section provided an overview showing that approximately. 870 of the posts carried forward are designation by the previous government. Then it's about. 130 granted, inter alia: through the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party's majority decision on the Stortinget, and the rest has come from the municipalities. How the Council of State Rupstad makes it sound as if it is the profits of this government that all the positions that have now taken place in the field of child protection, I wonder. But my question is, why have the Christian People's Party and Ropstad changed their view?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e2896	It is quite right that some of the increase during this government has come because of earmarked jobs. That's right. I do not stand here and take responsibility for it; on the contrary, I am both responsible and responsible for the municipalities and commend them for having actually prioritised the protection of children. I believe it is an important part of my job to enable the municipalities to do the good priorities. As I said, the community economy is better than ever. There are fewer municipalities on the ROBEK list. There are record few municipalities on the ROBEK list. It's an important job for me. I'm concerned that it's more than just staffing, because I think that should strengthen child protection and not least the situation of the vulnerable kids, we need to do even more preventive. When we send out new child protection laws at the hearing, we are therefore committed to making the municipalities responsible so that they make priorities for choosing early action. It pays off, and it'll hopefully also reduce the number of issues that come so far that child protection has to be on the ground.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e2901	I believe, as the representative Henriksen, that there is too much that does not work in the field of child protection. That's why I'm busy thinking maybe a little bit new. The Health Authority had a review with us in the Family and Culture Committee on the gloomy report ‘Traveling Washes the Eyes’. It wasn't fun reading – I'm sure the Council of State agrees with me. On direct questions from me, the Health Authority confirmed that lack of staff and resources is actually part of the problem. But they also stressed that there is so much about system failure at many levels that so many child protection issues are not working well enough. When it comes to investigating the transfer of state child protection to the regions, it will be important for the Council of State to consider how such reorganisation can help to justify the way in which we work in the field of child protection in the future, among other things. in the case of better interaction with other establishments?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e2910	It's an important moment that we'll of course be looking at. We want an external report to look at just the transfer of Bufetat. Just what is concrete in it, I can't answer on the standing foot, but we're at least concerned that when you're going to look at that transmission, we need to have the best of the child in the center. I am pleased that the representative has also previously been committed to lifting up. With regard to the review of the Health Authority, I also fully share the concerns. There's a lot that's not good enough. I fully agree that it is obvious in some municipalities that crewing is also important. That is why I am pleased that the centre party is against ear-marking. I wonder a little bit about the concept – that you want a boarding plan on board – because I don't fully understand how it should be done without using either the norm or the earring, but I'm at least happy that you don't go so far as to override the municipalities that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e2917	First, it's obvious that there's something in the figures of the Council of State. Another point is also the relationship between jobs and needs, which we have tried to highlight so far in these cases without getting any answer to it. But let me go over to it with ear-marking, as the Council of State with great weight argues so strongly against – now at the latest in the previous reply. It is very strange for me when the same person in all the state budgets from 2014 to 2019 negotiated just earmarked jobs. That was right up until this year's government budget, and not least until the government statement and the Christian People's Party's entry into government, where this instrument was subjugated, and the Christian People's Party now suddenly believes that it is a municipal responsibility. I would like to ask the Council of State whether he has changed his mind or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e2925	The budget for 2019 I sat and negotiated myself, and I was happy with the solution we found. What I'm trying to point out is that earring can work well – it's not like I'm basically against earring. But I think it is right to use it when something is to be manned up over a short time, and then take away the designation again – just so that the municipalities can have that freedom. I'll do an example. I was just visiting Bergen, where the Christian People's Party has the Health Agency. That's where you chose to allocate $25 million. kr to be able to employ more people in child protection – super. But it is clear that even if a person chooses to designate funds, there may not be more employees in the municipality of Bergen. It could be that they should use that money for something else. The challenge is that we sit here in Oslo and know best what will work in all the municipalities. I'm committed to making the municipal politicians responsible, and I think that when they see the picture, they do the best priorities. We don't always agree, but that's why we have different parties in different municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e2934	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e2941	I think it's time we started to distinguish a little bit between those groups that sail can target their needs and interests, and those that can't. Children in child protection can rarely do so. Then it is completely unreasonable that they should have different offers in different municipalities, and that it should be up to a municipal political drawdown, or that they should, like, promote their affairs for the municipal apparatus, so that there is a discussion about this. SV is concerned that the children should have the same rights regardless of the municipality in which they live, and therefore we have wanted to improve the community economy and earmarked funds for the child-restraint plan. It should also be that when politicians say that there should be better child protection, there should be better child protection. If there's something these kids really don't need, it's empty promises that don't make any sense in everyday life. That's why SV is promoting these proposals, and we're going to keep doing it, because we think it's right. Yesterday I had a meeting at Hamar where I, among other things, discussed and received information from KS in Hedmark that they are now training local government representatives on child protection. It should certainly also be done at the administrative level, because there are also a lot of people in local government who do not get information about the situation in child protection and who do not get information about the kind of responsibility they actually have. It's been that long, and I know that in many municipalities it's still like this. A lot of people sit and don't really know the state of their own municipality. I don't think there are any local politicians who really want to be able to choose between good child protection or another measure in the municipality. I don't think anyone could say that directly, I don't think anyone could stand for that, and that's why I don't understand this very big problem anyone has with ear-marked means for this field. What municipalities need is money to implement the rights these children have today, and to rehabilitate child protection so that there is also room to help families in the past, so that we might get fewer takeovers, and that more families can be together in the future. That's what this is about: securing money for what we all say we agree on. Then it becomes very strange to be against that we should ensure it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e2958	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e2974	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, a reply be given to replies from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e2983	First of all, I would like to take the opportunity to thank the Committee on Clean Cooperation. The issue we have to deal with today is the result of a demand from, among other things. Jointly linked in the wage settlement in 2016. The Riksmökler agreed with the parties to ask the government to seek out a modernised private-sector pension scheme. The government responded positively to the enquiry and set up a working group with its best pension bureaucrats from the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, complemented by representatives from the Financial Supervisory Authority. The parties participated in a reference group. The group created a report that was sent to the hearing under the name My Pension Account. The proposal to allow the opening of a personal pension account with a pension provider chosen by the employee is very welcome both in the consultation on the report and in the government. In this case too, both the hearing and the examination within the committee have shown the same thing. Own pension account is expected to give employees greater payments of pensions because a set of one-supplier pension certificates will give less administrative costs, whether the employee chooses the employer’s pension provider or makes a separate choice of supplier. The Committee noted that there was uncertainty in the consultation on the responsibilities of the employer for the necessary information for the employee and what choices need to be made after the amendment. A unanimous committee has commented on this in the vote. The Committee understands the legislative proposal in such a way that responsibility is essentially limited to disseminating information on options and their consequences developed by pension providers. The same must apply to advice on risk mitigation measures when the worker has a few years left to take up a pension. Cooperation between actors is necessary in order for the law to function and to be implemented as quickly as possible and the necessary clarifications of the roles and tasks of the regulations to be drawn up must be made. The Committee has also made it clear that only a different distribution of administrative costs than that proposed by the bill can be agreed for those parts of the costs relating to previous earnings. The expert committee that produced the report that is the basis for the matter we have today also investigated other adjustments in private occupational retirement provision. Estimates have been made as to the age and income from which earnings should start, as well as the duration and size of the employment relationship that should provide the basis for the exercise of rights. The Government proposes in Prop. 40 L that the rule that the employee must have been employed for at least 12 months in order to raise his earned-up pension capital is to be abolished. A Joint Committee supports this. So I would like to comment on some of the additional proposals of the Workers' Party in relation to the proposition. So what was mentioned in the letter of consultation as more was a little more. For the Workers' Party, the pension from the first crown is a claim for justice. We believe it is right that all the employees earn a pension, apply from the first penny, and that the deduction of 1 g is removed. We also believe that earnings should start when you are 13 years old, and not when you are 20 years old, and that job vacancies are below 20 pst. also have to be counted. That's the way it is in popular terms, and that's the way it is in public occupational pensions. These changes have been carefully assessed in the expert group’s report. So it's not right, as many have said, when we discussed a draft representative on the same topic a few weeks ago, that the topic needed an investigation. One has to wait until the matter is resolved, it was said – for all those who still believe there are no investigations, page 6 of the proposition is good reading. The Labour Party therefore proposes concrete legislative changes which allow all three other pension bases to count, not only the change in the 12-month rule. Let's do it -- because it's fair. I have registered that the position has refused to vote for a bill that the Workers' Party has promoted in the matter. I can therefore assure you that all the legislative proposals have been drawn up by those who know this very best, namely the Ministry. I'll bring this up with our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e3019	The representative, Rigmor Aasrud, has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e3024	I will not extend the day or debate more than necessary, but I think it is appropriate to thank the President-in-Office for a very good and tidy process, which will ensure that this proposal is resolved safely by the government through the Stortinget. So the Finance Committee is united behind what is a very big and important and historic day for Norwegian pensioners. This is, of course, a case – as the rapporteur explained – which has been prepared over a long period of time, in close cooperation with the parties – in Norwegian tradition. This really means that those who have deposit-pension schemes will get lower costs by managing that pension, but then I also think it's quite important for some people to get a good idea of the pension they actually have. I think a lot of people have been unsure where they have different pensions, and how this eventually sums up when they go out with retirement. It's very gratifying that we're now getting a deal on this. The Committee has noted the concern of some employers that this will be too burdensome for them. It is therefore important, as we also clarify quite clearly, and which is my clear impression also has been the starting point of the government, that this should not be a large amount of extra work for employers. At the same time, however, we are aware that employers also have a responsibility to provide sufficient information on where to obtain advice on their own pension. This is also something that the government has notified back: that, in consultation with the parties concerned, they should organise it in a good manner. In conclusion, I just want to say that this is a positive day because we are now getting together in the Committee – new arrangements that make it a little easier and a little cheaper, and that provide a little better pensions for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e3035	Let me also start by thanking the case rapporteur for a very well-worked job and a good cooperation in this matter. We stand together – across the blocks – about most of it, and the rapporteur should be grateful for the opportunity to do so. I also think it is appropriate to thank the actors both on the employer's side and on the employee's side, who have contributed constructively to the Committee's work, whether it was at the oral hearing, or later, in writing. This is an important and good case for very many pensioners in Norway and for many, many more in the future. At the end of the day, this is likely to mean larger pension payments for a large number, without increasing the pressure on public finances or the enterprise in which each job is employed, or having a job – i.e. a win-win situation. Today, every time an employee ends up with an employer with a contribution pension scheme, a pension capital certificate is issued for the capital earned by the employee through the employment relationship, provided that the employment has lasted for more than 12 months. The cost of managing the pension capital must be borne by the employee himself. With the changes we are making now, it will be possible to collect pension capital certificates from previous employment and former individual pension savings on one pension scheme in the employer’s pension scheme, unless the employee reserves it. The purpose of this is to contribute to the more efficient management of pension funds under the pension scheme, in order to maximise pension provision for what has been earned and to make it easier to better understand your own earnings. It will also be possible for employees to choose to move both their past and current service to a supplier other than the one chosen by the current employer. We think it makes sense for the government and the Ministry of Finance to go a few rounds to find out how the cost allocation between the employee and the employer related to such a scheme can be optimally resolved. The important thing here is that you take into account that the goal is the most possible pension for each of the saved heads. Many claim – rightly – that pensions are complicated and inconclusive. Hopefully, this grip will help to make it a little less inconspicuous. However, some questions arise when major changes are made to a relatively complex system. Who shall bear the administrative costs related to the previous retirement pension? Is passive or negative consent appropriate? Who shall be responsible for providing the correct information? I believe that all these questions have either been answered well, or have been notified that you will return to them in the order. The most important thing to have in mind is in any case — and a advice to the government council on the way forward in the matter: how can individual employees get a higher pension for minimum bureaucracy? If you fulfill that, I think the Storting will be very satisfied.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e3050	Let me first thank the Committee for the work on the bill on own pension account. I am pleased that a unanimous committee supports the proposal that employees in companies with pension schemes should receive their pension capital certificates in one pension account. There is an important and correct reform adopted today by the Storting, a reform that provides workers with more pensions for money, a better overview of their own pensions and increased service provision for people with fewer than 12 months of employment, a reform that will affect 1.4 million workers in the private sector. But there's also some brave decisions a total staggering behind it. The introduction of so-called passive consent relating to the transfer and accumulation of pension capital certificates is not a problem, but it is necessary for the establishment of a separate pension account to be successful. There's also no small operation we're going through. More than one million pension capital certificates shall potentially be transferred and values above 70 billion. kr shall be realised, moved and reinvested. The introduction of the option for self-employed workers to continue to earn occupational pensions also increases the freedom of choice of individual workers and, hopefully, greater competition in the market, which in turn may mean more going to retirement and less to administration and administration. I note that the Committee proposes a clarification in the bill, which relates to the possibility of agreeing a different distribution of management costs than that resulting from the law. The aim is to ensure that no agreements are opened which would be less favourable to employees than under the law. I think this is a good and correct clarification. I have also noticed that the Committee is concerned that employees are provided with good and standardised information on the collection of pension assets in their pension account. As the Committee refers to, interested parties will be invited to participate in further work on the practical implementation of their pension account. Questions relating, inter alia, to: The exchange of information and the development of industry standards could be discussed here to ensure that good systems are put in place. Then I have registered that there has been some concern from the employer’s side in particular about the employer’s obligation to provide information. Let me therefore make the following very clear: I fully agree that most employers cannot be expected to have an in-depth knowledge of the pension, and it is therefore not intended that the employer himself should provide information to the employee. I note that a minority in the Committee, the members of the Labour Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green and Red Party, have promoted legislative proposals on the introduction of the pension from the first crown and to remove the requirement of 20 years and 20 pst. position. I am referring to the fact that the Stortinget now in February considered a Document 8 proposal for an individual pension account. The decision was then made to ask the government to set down a selection of parties to assess the pension from the first penny. We are in the process of doing this. Among other things, we have have had good and constructive meetings with the social partners on how this work is to be carried out, the role of the ministry and government, and what it is natural that the mandate of the sample should be included. We will publish the mandate and composition of such a selection in a reasonably short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e3075	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e3092	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that the opportunity be given to change of line after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e3101	I would like to thank the Committee for a quick examination of this matter, which proposes adjustments to the rules on duty-free staff rebates. This government is concerned that the legislation should be as simple and fair as possible — simple in the sense that reporting has to be simplified and predictable, fair in the sense that some goods have to be accepted as tax-free, but not to the extent that it replaces normal wages and salaries for work. The new rules on benefits in kind came into force at the turn of the year and have been debated and discussed in the Stortinget both in the revised budget for 2018 and during the treatment of the state budget for the current year. This review of benefits in kind has led to clearer legislation, which is easier to understand and which provides less reporting. Nevertheless, we have received feedback from businesses and workers that the rules adopted can be improved. Working life is diverse and operates with a variety of benefits in kind for its employees. Although the changes have been on a wide range of consultation and treatment, even more aspects of the proposal became visible at the time of implementation. So this is an adjustment to a previously adopted proposal here in the Chamber. Therefore, the main features are fixed and the proposed changes are well described in the very comprehensive five-page proposition. These are therefore amendments to be made to the regulation about the moment the Minister of Finance has returned to his office after the debate today. So these are the consequences this will have for this year's government budget, and the Storting formally takes a stand today. I notice that the Central Party is promoting a proposal to have another review of the amendments that have been adopted. First of all, what we are discussing today, in my view, is an actual review of the adopted rules, they have been assessed very quickly and effectively, promoted by the government on 8 March and dealt with by the Storting in a little over three weeks. So I can't understand what a third review is going to tell the Storting about. Secondly, in its comments, the Centre Party states that the adjustments proposed by the Government here are ‘extremely sufficient’. Then I might have figured out that you also listed a whole bunch of examples, when it's as far from enough as it's said. But you don't. This government actually implements policies, actual simplifications and cleanups in an area where there are doubts and grey areas. If the Central Party only has words in one setting and no concrete examples to refer to, their proposal for a third review of less than two years is just words.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e3122	The main principle of the Workers' Party is that all employees should be paid decently with a pension from the first crown, as well as sickness and holiday pay. I am pleased that the Committee is gathered around the proposed adjustments and today's changes, which are absolutely necessary. It is good that understanding was replaced by clear rules, with equal treatment between industry and ignition and entitlement to social security and pensions on all wages. I think it is good that the Council of State finally took note of the protests, corrected in several of the unintended actions and now bends. Still, we're not quite in goal, even with today's changes. Why was there so much fuss about these tax changes? Yes, they happened too random and too unfair. The volunteers who work hard and have gained access to festivals such as motivating were puzzled about how to interpret the changes, how to beat them, and how to get volunteers to participate in festivals in the future. Several questions were asked about the theme, as far as I know from all the opposition parties, and despair was great over the lack of understanding from the right-wing government. The Storting Opposition also made a concrete proposal, in connection with the debate on a new government platform, which would have solved this quite simply. But no, it was voted down without any explanation. Fortunately, one now finally has the countries on a solution here too, a solution that is a little poorer, but very close to the one that was discouraged. When it comes to the tax changes for bus drivers, we have not received a response to how the Storting was informed about this, and it is difficult to interpret what the government would have done when it relates to the labour law aspects of the tax change. Now this matter has been delayed for six months. The last thing I want to do is tax on tips. Tips have been taxable all along; it hasn't changed. The reporting obligation has changed. My impression is that most people understand that employers are deducting taxes and pensions, but that employers are able to deduct them from employers’ and administrative costs. We've got an example that it's drawn 20 pst. for administrative expenses – 20 pst. of tips received to report this. This is still not cleaned up. Here the government has a job to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e3135	When you see that changes in the rules hit unwanted, it is a strength that we adjust the rules in retrospect. The case we're dealing with now is one such example. A broad majority of the Storting adopted new rules on taxation of benefits in kind, but quite quickly we saw that there was a need to make some changes. I would like to pay tribute to the Minister of Finance, who quickly set out with the initiative to engage in dialogue with the workers' and employers' organisations and who kept the focus on regulatory improvements. Now there are higher limits on the amount of both tax-free gifts in employment and for staff discounts. The 50 pst personnel discount limit. cancel, increase the amount limit to NOK 8 000, and we double the tax-free limit. Overall, this is a significant improvement we can enjoy together with the employees and employers. It is important that we have a tax regime that is fair and treats everyone equally. In addition, in the case of the Progress Party, it is a general objective that taxes and charges should always be as low as possible. Regardless of whether you have low or high income, you should never have to pay more in taxes than what is absolutely necessary to finance the welfare society there is a broad consensus that we should have. The improvement we are doing here today is good. Like FrPs, I want more of these changes. Sometimes it may seem that there are politicians from many other parties who also believe that the country's inhabitants should have paid less in taxes, but who have nevertheless opposed the government's reduction in taxes by 25 billion in the last five years. NOK 1,1000 per household. But I think it is good if it is now that more people have agreed with the Progress Party that the taxes should go down and not up. I expect the same enthusiasm when the same parties are now going to start chiseling out their strategy of how to set up the municipal fees and not least the property tax for the inhabitants over the next four years. One penny in tax is one penny smaller for the family – no matter what it goes into. With the Progress Party in the government, we have proved that we are not just talking about the taxes going down. We've also made sure that they actually go down. When we get a change of rules that turns out unluckily, we do not add more prestige to the matter than we are reviewing the matter again. This is how we achieve both adjusting the rules and making improvements. That's how we get a code that's better for everyone, where the taxes go down, where the growth and wealth go up, and where the everyday life of most people gets better.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e3150	In order to implement changes in taxes and taxes, an important and guiding objective must be to try to make everyday life a little better and a little easier for ordinary people than it has been before, and also to ensure that the everyday life of businesses, not least small and medium-sized enterprises, around our entire long-term country will be a little simpler and a little better than it has been before. Then I hear representatives from the majority in the Chamber say that there have been unintended consequences of the changes in the rules. Then I wonder how much you have listened along the way. The protests against what was presented by the government last May came from the first day. The centre party opposed the changes proposed and implemented in the revised national budget last year. In the state budget for 2019, we proposed that a new review of the rules should be carried out precisely because they are completely wrong, because they do not make everyday life easier for many common people, because they do not make everyday life easier for businesses and those who are to control, such as, for example, the government budget for 2019. The accountant association has taken up. It is good that someone has finally recognised that there is a need to make changes. We support the changes that are being presented, but at the same time, there are important areas where there are no changes. For example, let me take the situation for those who are bus drivers or jobs in a train company, who have had a free card or a staff discount. Here, an amendment is to be implemented from 1 July of this year, i.e. until 1 July, the tax-free advantage. As from 1 July, it shall be taxed. It's under three more months. Then there's a point that the majority also says something about what kind of practical consequence this should have, once you've got a story, for example through the Free Trade Movement and the NRK, from a bus driver who with the new rules will get $30,000 more in tax. With what's on the table here, that change in view of that picture will be very marginal. What this proposal involves is that it is a district hostile change. Those who live within Zone 1 in Oslo and are required to have a monthly card there, do not pay taxes, while those who are going to travel long distances, whether it's in More and Romesdal, in Northern or other counties, first of all have to pay a lot of taxes and, in addition, are the ones who have the worst collective offer. It's grossly unfair. That's why it would have been wise to review all the new rules, because it's about people's everyday lives, it's about people being hit by the rules. What one cleans up now is only part of the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e3161	In the context of the revised national budget for 2018 and the State budget for 2019, a broad majority of the Stortinget adopted new rules on taxation and reporting of benefits in kind. They came into force at New Year's. A thorough preparatory work was carried out prior to the submission of the amendments in order to get an overview of how the changes in the tax regime for benefits in kind would turn out. We got caught up in these rounds on the scope of existing schemes. The government wants orderly conditions in the labour market. Practice after the previous legislation had slipped out. Significant values were transferred from the employer to the employee without taxing them. The changes contribute to more effective and fair taxation of benefits in kind. Moreover, benefits in kind that are not reported and taxed do not provide a basis for the vesting of rights in the social security system. After the new rules came into force, it became known that the scope of staff rebates was larger than that previously foreseen. We're a government that's busy listening to people and businesses. I have had meetings with LO, NHO and Works, and we have received clear feedback. We've listened to that. The government therefore wants to implement some relaxations in the rules on tax-free staff discounts and tax-free gifts in order to make them more flexible. The condition for a maximum discount rate of 50 pst. be removed so that discounts of up to 100 pst are also applied. may be granted free of tax. At the same time, the value of tax-free personnel discounts is raised from NOK 7 000 to NOK 8 000. These changes will provide greater scope for tax exemptions for the free ticket and discount schemes that are widespread, for example: the cultural and passenger transport industries. The government will also raise the amount limit for tax-free gifts from NOK 1000 to NOK 2000. This limit has remained unchanged since 2009. For the transport industry, the implementation of the new rules is deferred until 1 July 2019. In this way, transport companies will have better time to design ticket schemes that are more consistent with individual private travel needs and new tax rules. I am pleased that the Finance Committee has joined the government's proposal. The tax office will provide a new supervisor to help employers and taxpayers follow the legislation. In this work, the department has, among other things, recorded by NHO and Works. Finally, I would like to thank the Committee on Rapid Work. The government will apply the changes as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e3186	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e3191	If the employer's fee goes up by 2 pst., does the council think it is right that it is the employees who have to pay it themselves?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e3196	I have no immediate plans to increase the employer's fee, so I did not fully understand the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e3201	I would like to repeat it: if the employer's fee goes up, if it increases, who is it to pay for it? Is it the employer or the employee himself to pay for it?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e3207	This is a hypothetical question. I have no plans to increase the employer's fee, neither by 1 pst. or 2 pst. It is a regulation for who pays the employer's fee, and we do not intend to change that either.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e3212	When it comes to tips, the Council of State clearly believes that the employee himself has to pay the employer's fee. If one gets NOK 100, it should be deducted for administrative expenses and for employer fees. What's the difference between that and the rise in the employer's fee?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e3217	The case of taxing tips has many aspects. The important aspect of this is that the employee side very much agrees with the proposal put forward by the government and which has also received a majority in the Stortinget, namely that tips should also be counted as wages and taxes. There has been a discussion about how this should be followed up in the individual enterprise. I have always said that I believe that employers must be conscious of their responsibilities in these matters and deal with them in a good way – simply because this is a salary that should be taxed, so that those who work in these professions get acquired rights like everyone else.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e3222	One of the changes that still remain, but says to be implemented from 1 July, is the changes in the free card and discounts for bus drivers and employees of train companies. Then I would like to ask Siv Jensen: It was a bus driver who appeared in the Free Trade Movement and the NRK earlier this year, who received a discount for himself and his family of an estimated NOK 90 000. Given the rules initially, it would mean an increase of NOK 30 000. With the rules that are now being put on the table, there's only a minimal change in his situation. What tax does Siv Jensen see that he will have in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e3229	With the postponement to which the Stortinget subscribes today, this means that these companies will have better time to adapt within the adjusted rules that will now apply. There are liberal arrangements for staff discounts, for which I am absolutely sure that good solutions will be found, both for free cards and travel, within these sectors. I think some of the calculations we saw in the debate on this show that these were schemes that are not being used because they were very extensive. I am concerned that these staff discounts should be applicable to bus drivers and others, and that can be done now by adapting to the liberal frameworks that are now in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e3236	It is less than three months for the new legislation to come into force. The largest professional organisation for bus drivers, the Professional Traffic Association, has sent recordings to the Ministry of Finance and has not experienced any dialogue with the Ministry on what is the process further. It must be possible to clarify more clearly what the Council of State thinks should be the practical consequence for ordinary citizens in Norway. This is despite all the arrangements developed over time, where there are people working in professions where there is pressure on pay and working conditions, and where this has been an important part of the total package for them, which is now being changed overnight. How does one view this matter in the future, including in dialogue with the employee organisations, and what concrete solutions does the government consider to be in charge of bus drivers, for example?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e3243	Firstly, this change is not ‘overnight’, as the representative Gülsvik produces it as. These are changes that were presented to the Storting nearly a year ago in the context of the revised budget, which has been at broad consultation, and which all the actors who have been affected by this have had the opportunity to make representations and views on, but which have done few, as I said in my speech. Then it is that at the moment this came into force, from New Year's, there were suddenly many who discovered the consequences of a code – which has been at the hearing, and which was approved by the Stortinget already in revision, precisely because we wanted to prepare the matter in good time, so that one should have the opportunity to adapt to it. I have nevertheless thought that it would be wise to give this further postponement to the bus companies in order to enable them to adapt within the new, more liberal frameworks that are now in force. I think that will be quite possible, and I don't think it's wise for the representative Geelsvik to try to make this a bigger case than it actually is.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e3252	I address the practical consequences that employees, as bus drivers, describe as the consequences of the rules that have been laid on the table and that hit them hard: NOK 30 000 in increased taxes. Whether you get one or two or three or four or five months of preparation for it, I think this would be pretty hard on most people. But a concrete proposal, which I have registered that the Ministry of Finance has been in dialogue with NHO Transport about, is whether to take into account the actual use of these cards. It is a proposal that I have registered that the Ministry of Finance has promised, and that NHO Transport has so far rejected because they believe that it will not be practicable. Will the Ministry of Finance continue to insist that the real use of these cards is to be taken into account in future taxation of these goods?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e3261	As I said in my post, and which I also tried to answer, it will now be fully possible within the new legislation to adapt without getting into the tax position. I hope that the companies and their employees will spend the time until 1 July, which is a postponement of implementation just to be able to adapt to the new, liberal regulatory framework, and then you won't get into a situation where you are taxed.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e3266	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e3271	First, I would like to take the opportunity to record the proposal of the Centre Party. So to the line exchange that was with the state council here, and the emphasis on that here gets the industries, here gets the actors, here gets the bus drivers, here they get plenty of time to adapt. The new legislation will therefore enter into force from 1 July of this year. It's under three more months. It's okay to adapt if you live in a state like Oslo, for example, where an annual card costs 7500 kroner within Zone 1. But living in a state like Nordland, Troms, Finnmark, More and Romsdal or Sogn and Fjordane – yes, there may be quite different costs to get from A to B. There the limit that one has set, a coverage of NOK 8 000, will lead many of the employees – who today as part of their salary have had a good thing, being able to have free travel for themselves and their immediate family – to experience that a good is taken from them, and that an increased tax rate will be increased from 1 July this year. Pushing it over to the parties and saying that they find practical solutions here, when the Ministry of Finance, even during the time you have worked on the matter, in cooperation with the parties, has not been able to find a solution that takes care of individuals in Norway, I believe is irresponsible to those who are actually affected by this. That one does not say like that: No, now we are postponing the case, we do not set 1 July as the date for introducing this, we need to give ourselves more time to get an overview of the case, to have dialogue both with the employer side and with the largest bus driver's organisation, the Professional Traffic Association, and to find good solutions for the future. So to another question, which has also been raised by several speakers, that goes on the taxation of tips. It is quite right that tips should be taxed, but the question is how this is done. One thing is that the employee also has to pay the employer’s fee. However, that one has to pay an administrative fee on top of it again, and in some respects an administrative fee of perhaps 20 pst., when it is the employer who is free to either give a reward in the form of tips or to take the tip and instead pay a somewhat higher salary to all the employees, is grossly unreasonable – i.e. that the employer's choice here should impose a large administrative fee on the individual employee. I have asked the Council of State about this earlier without getting an answer. One should definitely ensure that such new fees for individuals are not imposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e3281	The representative of Sigbjørn Gülsvik has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e3286	It was the Council of State's response in the reply exchange that makes there is reason to get some clarification. The council says there, related to the free card on transport, that this has been heard many times, there has been a long consultation time, and the parties have had a good opportunity to make their recordings. However, I have actually read that consultation note quite carefully, and there is nothing to say that the practice note, which is the basis for the fact that bus drivers and others working in the transport sector get changed their tax position through the changes – the Council of State needs to clarify it – have actually been heard, and in what context it has been heard. Then we have had some dialogues with the Council of State on this matter earlier, and then the Council of State has, among other things. in a debate on Dagsnytt eighteen said that this is good, because now bus drivers will have both sick pay, holiday pay and pension linked to the report made for a free ticket for transport. As far as I know, and as the Council of State can certainly confirm, it will only apply in those cases where one loses that performance in kind if one is absent, and I cannot understand that it will be practicable to do so. It would also be nice if the Council of State could clarify a little about which systems you are going to have in order to get both sick pay and holiday money on the value of the benefits in kind that are paid. But the most important thing is to clarify how this has been heard, because it is at least quite difficult for us others to find in the postal records of both the Council of State, the Department and the Directorate and in the documents available to us to go into.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e3295	I believe that I have answered most of these questions in previous debates and round about this. But a problem that the representative Aasrud was facing was how to tax the value of these benefits in kind. The point is that the benefits that are tax-free are not taxed. This has been the whole basis for this discussion: How much should the tax-free amounts be? If they're too large, it actually means income that doesn't come into tax and that you can't earn your rights through. It is this that has been the whole demarcation: how are we going to get more orderly conditions in working life on a general basis? I think we've managed to get in a good way. It also shows the Storting, who unanimously subscribes to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e3300	No more people have asked for the floor. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e3316	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that up to five lines of response be given to posts by members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e3325	It is on behalf of a unanimous committee I present this vote. I would like to thank the Committee for both great goodwill and good cooperation in order to finalise the matter quickly. In the proposal currently under consideration, the Ministry of Local Government and Modernisation proposes to increase the grant of housing aid in 2019 to cover an exceptional payment to those who are beneficiaries of housing aid. This additional appropriation shall help to cover winter high electricity bills in low-income households. We have a winter behind us where we experienced in January and February that the power price was significantly higher than the average in the last five years. There are several reasons for this: There have been higher prices of CO2, gas and coal in Europe. In the summer of 2018 we experienced an extreme drought here at home. Warehouse fillings have been lower than normal. There's been little snow in the mountains. As everyone knows, our power consumption is highest in winter. Therefore, it was not until the winter months of 2018 and 2019 that ordinary households were fully aware of the consequences of the power situation. According to the SSB, the electricity prices for households were 41 pst. higher than the previous year. We actually have to go all the way back to 2010 and 2011 to find prices at this level. The Committee has therefore also pointed out in its opinion that the situation in winter 2018/2019 was exceptional and that the current action cannot therefore constitute a precedent for future situations. There is no doubt that many disadvantaged people have received an additional load associated with the electricity bills this winter. The members of the Committee are therefore pleased that the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and the Ministry of Modernisation proposes this extra payment to the households receiving housing support, and we agree with the Ministry that the housing support device is a quick and effective tool for reaching households who need additional support. When the Committee has taken the utmost care to deal with this matter as quickly as possible, it is because we want to facilitate the payment by the House Bank, which administers the housing aid scheme, to the beneficiaries concerned as soon as possible. There is in the proposition proposed an additional payment of NOK 2 950 for the first household member and NOK 120 for each additional member of the household. Overall, this measure is estimated to lead to an increase in housing aid of 274 million in 2019. kr. In addition, it's estimated that there will be about 2 million. kr in administrative expenses of the House Bank. As mentioned, the whole committee is behind the vote, but I would also like to point out that the Committee is dealing with another issue related to the same topic: Document 8:73 S for 2018-2019, on the modification of housing support and the establishment of temporary arrangements to reach disadvantaged households with high energy price problems. This is a comprehensive proposal by the Socialist Left, and it will be discussed and debated in full in plenary after Easter. On behalf of us in the Right, I would like to say that we are pleased that government and greatness can help those who need it in a difficult situation. We have tried to get the matter through as quickly as possible and hope that the House Bank can make payments before Easter. It is a good and unbureaucratic solution to use the House Bank as an appliance to pay the money. We hope that this will help many of them in society who have the least flexibility to deal with unforeseen expenses. In the end, I just want to say that when the Storting and the government now contribute extra measures, I also hope that the energy companies can show a little extra flexibility with the payment deadlines this time, so that as much as possible they can pay the electricity bills without too many reminder fees and debt collection cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e3361	A place to live at an affordable price is crucial to being able to live a life of independence and good living. The working party believes that as many as possible should own their own home and that it should be of good quality. The difference between owning and renting owner-occupied dwellings is becoming one of the greatest inequalities in society. With today's housing prices, first-time buyers and those who have difficulty getting into the housing market and buying their own home are struggling. The SSB report Housing and housing conditions show that the proportion of owner-occupiers in low-income households has fallen by 10 percentage points in the last 15 years. The report also shows that fewer people who receive housing support own housing. This is what we politicians have to take for granted. Therefore, the Labour Party promoted more housing policy investments in our alternative budget for 2019. Among other things, we strengthened the housing stock by 100 million. kr. Housing is essential for people with low incomes to obtain or maintain a home. The problem is both increased housing prices in cities and many thousands less qualified to receive housing support compared to the past. The government has weakened the housing support so that almost 300 million were paid in 2017. kr less in housing aid than in 2013. This goes beyond the very weakest of us. I would like to thank the government for finally getting on the road in this matter. Those who have hurt need this money can now meet the passover without having to pay the debt collection claim. Several of those affected have contacted the Municipal and Administrative Committee with just that fear. People with power bills with payment deadlines that have expired and that have already gone to debt collection, we, as the Right, encourage you to get help from the energy agencies. These are people who are already living a difficult life and who are now getting less of a worry. Finally, I would like to point out the simple fact that the Storting had already at the end of January the possibility to decide to ask the government to use a one-off payment of exceptional housing aid to remedy the situation of those who are hardest hit by the sharp increase in electricity prices, and come back to Stortinget with proposals for additional funding if necessary. It's just to record that the government parties in Stortinget voted down this proposal, and that the government waited until March 15th to promote Prop. 54 S for 2018-2019, with proposals for increased housing support.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e3374	It is time for speech, but it is a unanimous committee that is quite right, as the case-rapporteur pointed out, it is useful to make a one-off payment in support of those who have had financial problems as a result of the high electricity prices that this winter has given us. It is gratifying to note that the House Bank is considered to be an unbureaucratic solution, and that it costs little to administer this scheme. You should notice that. There is also reason to welcome the government after. As I have said, many in the Chamber have waited a long time for this proposal to be made. It is good to finally put it on the table. We're going to come back to a number of the proposals on housing support legislation, in various debates beyond spring, and I'm not going to go into them by the Center Party now. That is what we are going to do in future debates.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e3381	It is expensive to live, and in winter the electricity prices have been very high. Many of those with the least income in this country have also fallen in income, and many have remained silent. That means that it was very early in winter that it was quite clear that it was necessary to take such an action, and SV was one of the parties that voted for the Red's proposal in the accession debate. When it was voted down, we quickly introduced a proposal for a directive, which is now under consideration in the Committee, which is more extensive than the government's proposal. But SV has contributed to what we can handle as quickly as possible of this matter, and hope that the money will be paid before Easter. But there's reason to remember that in 2011, the sum that was allocated to such a one-time measure was 320 million. kr. It came from the fact that there were many more people who got housing support. One of the problems now is that many of them with very high housing costs and very low income do not receive housing support, and that they have already reached income levels, so that within the current system you simply do not get housing support if you are in a much more difficult situation now than you were before. It clearly shows the numbers – there are many more thousands who have fallen out of the scheme, despite the fact that we have become half a million more inhabitants in this country. Bout poisons have increased violently, income has remained still, and those who are now receiving housing support get a much smaller share of their housing costs covered by the housing support, sail if they get a little bit more in dollars and an ear. But it doesn't do much good. In total, they're getting less. That is why the proposal we have made, a much wider proposal, because we see that many of those who have fallen out of the housing aid scheme have as much need as those in the housing aid scheme. In this case, the clear speech of the figures is that now the household income of those who receive housing support is down to 130,900 kroner a year, and the budget is 97,200 kroner. It's in the proposition. Everyone must realize that it is not possible to get the ends to meet and pay high electricity bills with such a regime. So the housing support system needs to be further extended. Several have to be included in it, and more people who do not have the right to housing support will also need such housing support. It will be discussed when we in the Municipal Committee deal with the draft representative promoted by SV. So Red has today put two suggestions on the table, and both are worth discussing. I have asked Red if they cannot draw the proposals today. Now all parties have seen the two proposals, and it is possible for the Municipal and Administrative Committee to discuss the proposals when considering the vote on the draft document. I can immediately say that proposal No. 2 is a measure that SV can immediately say that we can support. Proposal No. 1 is a little bit more problematic, because it has been investigated several times, and it turns out that some of those who have the latest houses, and who have good advice, get low power bills and therefore will benefit from such a proposal, while some of those who have poorly isolated houses will get high power bills and get no use of this proposal. Therefore, perhaps additional measures and other support schemes, i.e. increased housing support and increased benefits for people who have poor advice, are more accurate to achieve the intention contained in the Red’s proposal, which I support. If it had been easy and let me do it, I would have gladly paid double the electricity price for my electric car contact in the garage. I do not belong to those who have heating cables in any driveway or anything like that. It would have been nice to be able to distinguish – to say it like that – the necessary costs of electricity, and where you spend on a type of consumption you can pay a little more for. The investigations have shown that this is difficult, but I nevertheless urge that we should discuss this in the position we are going to give.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e3400	The high electricity prices in winter could be noticed well in the wallets of most people. I noticed that the power prices were one of the reasons that three out of ten retail chains were in deficit last year. So there's no less shopping among the most serious consequences of high power prices. On the other hand, what Nina Dehlin said to the VG in January is more serious. She told me how cold exacerbated the health problems she has from fibromyalgia, but to save electricity and money she let herself before noon. 18th@item: inlistbox That's how I don't think either of us want us to have it in Norway. When Red in January proposed additional payments to housing beneficiaries, it was to give a hand billing and increased security to Nina and to others who paid the high electricity prices with impaired health and quality of life. Costs of heating are included in the housing stock at a fixed rate that is not affected by electricity prices. When prices increase sharply, housing support also needs to be increased, and we came up with a crisis response to prevent people from freezing and putting their health at stake, having financial problems, or at worst being forced to flow. But that was what the government parties voted down. At the time, Finance Minister Siv Jensen asked people to pay the rising current bills with old tax cuts, cut that we all know has benefited the richest. It's about as real as when the Prime Minister asked poor people to buy more shares. This government has about the same understanding of the consequences of poverty as a certain French queen, who then said people starved: If they don't have bread, why not eat cake? It is good that the government has known the pressure and has taken to heart and is now promoting that proposal Red three months ago. But we could have avoided the waiting time, people could have avoided the economic pressure they've known for months because of sky-high electricity bills without political leadership measures. Measures that come now are good in themselves, but do not solve the problem of high electricity prices for most people, nor do they solve the problems for those who have poor advice but do not qualify for housing support. Many, not least, have been thrown out of this government's housing support system and live on a minimum of existence. With an economy where they have to choose between meeting the need for new winter shoes and being able to eat a hot meal, the high electricity prices have created impossible situations. This the government has to take over. More needs action. High electricity prices are also linked to increased exports of power, where power companies make good money to sell out the power, while we – the citizens – pay by getting the European high electricity price import in return. We believe that the power to light, cooking and heating of ordinary dwellings completely covers basic needs. That doesn't mean that everyone should be able to use as much power as they want. Those who heat up the cabin say on several hundred square meters, those who have an outdoor bubble bath in winter or a couple of Tesla's in the garage, can pay a little more for their high consumption. We think that can be solved through a differentiated electricity charge, with a lower charge for those who have normal consumption, while electricity for luxury consumption is becoming more expensive. For many, the Enova support for individuals works very well by people choosing energy-saving solutions for upgrading and upgrading. But many who live in homes that are poorly isolated, with poor energy solutions, have so low incomes that even with support, the price tag is too high. They often cannot afford the investments needed to reduce energy consumption, even if it is profitable in the longer term. Therefore, the aid schemes cannot be completely blind to the differences in income. Many of them with the lowest income do not own a dwelling. They are tenants, pay the electricity bill themselves and cannot affect how the lessors make any additional measures. It should be a change, we believe. Then we have two proposals, which we are not considering today, but which we want to pass on to the committee's consideration of the proposal that Mr Andersen of SV mentioned before – that we get a round of those proposals when it comes to discussion here in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e3415	I am pleased to be able to answer on behalf of the government, even though this is really the responsibility of the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation. Power prices have been higher than we've been used to in recent years for several months. We're all dependent on electricity in everyday life, and the electricity billing can be a big expense item for many. High electricity prices are a challenge especially for those who have a poor economy. Therefore, the government has found it appropriate to propose measures to remedy the situation of those who are most disadvantaged in society. Like the previous non-socialist government – the Bondevik II government – we are now proposing an exceptional payment to all residents. It shall assist in facilitating the situation of households which in any case have a difficult daily life. In concrete terms, we suggest that all residents receive NOK 2 950 and that those who are more than one in the household receive NOK 120 in addition to each additional household member. The government is concerned with a secure supply of power, at the lowest possible price. We are now building more renewable energy in Norway than in many decades. Since this government joined, more than 500 concessions have been granted for new power generation. Foreign trade in electricity has ensured good security of supply over decades and has resulted in higher electricity prices being lower than they would otherwise have been. In addition, in this year's budget, we have reduced the electricity charge for the first time in many years. It also helps to reduce people's electricity costs. Everyone needs a good and safe dwelling. The housing aid shall ensure that economically disadvantaged persons can afford to live in a good housing. The government has strengthened housing support over several years, especially for families with children and other large households. We have prioritised the housing support scheme by enabling it to keep track of price increases and increasing housing costs. In the years 2009-2017 this was not taken care of in the legislation, we have corrected this weakness. In this year's budget, we have set aside 60 million. to strengthen housing for families with children and other large households. This has increased the housing allowance for a family of five with up to NOK 5 190 per year. The government believes that housing support is a quick and effective tool to reach a large proportion of the most disadvantaged households. The bank has a proven device for paying the housing allowance, and we have been confirmed that when Stortinget makes its decision today, the money can be paid over the next week.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e3428	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e3433	Because the Council of State mentions it, I have to ask this question. I think you have to be from the Advancement Party or the Right to think that the housing support is strengthened, when there are 35,000 fewer who get, and those who get get get paid less of their living expenses than they got before. The household income of those now receiving housing support is, according to the government's own documents, lower and lower for each year. It is true that some changes have been made to the system to include some of the elements, but there are a lot of elements in the system that make you stick both in the self-contained and in the bolt poison bar. To put it this way, many of the changes that the government has made mean that there are no more people getting housing support. How can housing support be increased – when it is actually weakened?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e3441	There have been many improvements in the housing support system. Firstly, the government has been perpetuated for its increased appropriations for housing support several times. The Bout poison bar has been increased every year since we took over. It is also important to clarify that even if you had too high income, you could get housing support in the past. This led to a large demand for a refund, which was burdensome for a lot of people. Now we have made a conversion that leads to far less housing support than before that they should not have. Thus, the conversion to a new income base has made housing support more targeted and reduced fault payments from 2017. I guess that kind of conversion should also be agreed with the Stortinget, because you should not receive support schemes for which you do not have a legitimate claim.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e3448	No, no one has disagreed with those conversions, but those conversions have not sealed the big gap that is in the housing support, and where the other elements have not been adjusted. We spend less in nominal kroner on housing support today than we did in 2009. At this time, boute poisons have increased, and the income of those with the lowest income has remained silent or decreased. It shows the government's own proposals. It is possible that the Minister of Finance believes that a household with 130,000 DKK of income has too high income, but in reality it is pure and cut poverty. How can it be that the government continues to say that the scheme is strengthened, when fewer sheep, and those who receive, are less covered by its expenditure?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e3455	I think I answered that, both in my post and in the previous line. So it's made more changes for the better. We have changed the scheme so that those who do not have a legitimate claim for housing support do not receive it, so that the extensive payments of errors that have taken place in their time are avoided. The fact that we have also made changes that take account of price growth and rising housing costs has been a positive contribution, as well as that we have increased housing support every year since we became a government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e3462	I note that this government believes that it is better to get fewer, and that more people who have very low incomes do not get housing support. It's just taking note of it. I can also record that the microscopic reduction in the electricity charge, which the government introduced after they first increased it very much, helps very few. But SV has another proposal, which several of the representatives have mentioned, which has appealed to the electricity companies to be flexible and to ensure that unpaid electricity bills do not go to debt collection agencies, or that there is an increase in fees. We have a proposal that goes on fees related to debt collection in respect of such necessary expenses. I can ask the Council of State if she sees that there may be a need to look at fees related to such necessary expenses, so that people don't get any extra costs that make them at least unable to pay the electricity bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e3471	First of all, I didn't say it was for the better for fewer sheep. I said it was good that the housing support was designed so that it met those who had a real need for it, and who qualified for the scheme. There has been an abuse of this. There have been a large number of mispayments. I can mention an example, namely that the House Bank recently carried out a register check against the Loan Fund. As a result, unlawful support for about 2,000 students was stopped. Students are not initially entitled to housing support – an example of why it has been right to target this better. The representative accuses me and the government of wanting the least possible part of the scheme. No, we're concerned that those who have a right to it are going to be taken by the system. I agree that a reduction in the electricity charge would not now help those who need it the most. Therefore, the government has submitted changes to the housing aid, precisely to meet those with the greatest need for electricity prices to be high in winter. So to the debate on the electricity companies – I'll save it for another time. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e3484	The representative, Andersen, has asked to ask another question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e3489	Yeah, that's another line. I record that the Council of State draws up some examples. There has been no disagreement among the parties about any of the changes that have been made. But what's missing in the housing stock is a raise and an adjustment of the elements that make fewer and fewer get, for every year that goes. That's the reality of the numbers. I record that the Minister of Finance clearly believes that one should be as poor as the household has a income of NOK 130 000 and a boute poison of NOK 97 000 before one can get housing support. That means that very many of those who are in great need of this money in order to live safely, today do not get. There must be a clear priority from the government — when they look at the figures — that they do not adjust these figures any more, so that more of the most disadvantaged can be captured.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e3496	But the government has. Since 2009, this scheme has not been in keeping with price growth and rising housing costs. This government has done something about it, unlike the government that SV itself put in from 2009 to 2013. We have also made changes to the housing aid ceiling. So we've improved the scheme every year, not with the aim that we should have the lowest possible amount of housing support, but that those who are entitled to it should be better able to get out of it. Then we've cleaned up in terms of those who didn't qualify for housing support. I think that must be quite reasonable. We need to have support schemes to meet those who need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e3503	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e3523	It's time to stop tuberculosis, and Norway has a role to play here. We can make a difference, and the time is now for action. Every day 4,400 people die of tuberculosis. It is important that Norway adheres to its international commitments and contributes to the cessation of tuberculosis. We've done it before in our own country, and our history is giving us our own responsibility to take leadership in the fight. We have also committed ourselves to this through the sustainability objectives and through the Granavolden platform, where it states that Norway should be a global driver for efforts to combat antibiotic resistance. Today, resistant tuberculosis accounts for one third of all deaths related to antibiotic resistance. Increasing support for the Global Fund for the Control of AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria and for others working in the fight against tuberculosis, as well as strengthening the research capacity of tuberculosis medicines and vaccines can be an important step towards the goal. More than 10 million people get tuberculosis every year, and 1.6 million people die unnecessarily. The BCG vaccine is not effective enough. Antibiotic resistance, together with multi-resistance tuberculosis, is among the top ten threats to global health of the WHO in 2019. Tuberculosis has no borders, and Norway is not admirable for tuberculosis. We had almost 300 cases last year, even several multi-resistant tuberculosis infections. I want to use aid to clear up disease, just as we now use it to clear up the gardens for plastics. It's better to use aid on something concrete that we know save lives. Illness is driving many into even greater poverty and giving more migration and even more people who are linked to terrorist groups, as we see, among other things. in Sahel. The precarious health situation in the sub-Saharan area is an important driver of destabilisation, migration and terrorism. Combating tuberculosis, malaria and AIDS is therefore not just a medical intervention — it is a crucial contribution to stabilising this region. We see in the news picture that there are still major conflicts, most recently in Mali a few weeks ago, and we know that both Boko Haram and IS are active in this region. In any case, we have committed ourselves to providing a large proportion of the state budget for development and assistance. I want to make strict demands that money helps, gives people a better life and creates a better world. Last Sunday, i.e. March 24th, we marked the world's day of tuberculosis. Each year, the tuberculosis-capped day is marked with a lot of commitment, animal-acquired experience and new slogans that you might be able to get attention this time. This year's slogan: Stop the tuberculosis. But when are we really going to start listening to those who have tuberculosis? Tuberculosis is a disease that has existed for a long time. Signs of the disease have been found in mummies in Egypt and Peru. It was described in writing already 3,000 years ago, in the younger Stone Age. Unfortunately, the world’s response to this epidemic continues to be somewhat rock-old. Why is it that a completely curable bacterial infection kills 1.6 million people every year? And why is tuberculosis still one of the ten biggest threats to global health? As far as too much is concerned, the explanation lies in the lack of political will, and as far as too much is concerned, there is a lack of political will because the majority of those affected are among the poorest in poor countries and far from being part of a market that is low-buyer. When I deal with tuberculosis, it's because it's one of the diseases that also affects Norway. I might as well have talked about malaria, but we're not so afraid of malaria in Norway. But now we see that we have patients in Norway, and we see an increase. That's why it's time to research more on tuberculosis, because every year over 10 million people get this disease, of which 1 million children. Almost 40 pst. 4 million tuberculosis victims, do not have access to healthcare. They never get diagnosis or treatment, and they remain contagious until their last day. Tuberculosis is difficult to diagnose, and it is a tough treatment — the same treatment given in Norway in the 1950s. If you have resistant tuberculosis, the treatment is even more difficult, with a number of tablets and injections and a lot of side effects, and the treatment lasts a lot longer. Of well half a million people who develop resistant tuberculosis, it's just about 15 pst. which is getting healthy. Most never get diagnosis or treatment. I do not think we can accept that. We live in a time when most things are possible, but we haven't been able to do a test that can easily detect tuberculosis. We don't have enough antibiotics, and we don't have any vaccines either. Many think they're protected by BCG, but it doesn't provide full coverage. The BCG vaccine has otherwise been withdrawn from the Norwegian vaccination programme and is only given to particularly risky groups. I think we need to invest in tuberculosis. It's easy for me to stand here and say that we have to stop the epidemic, but that's what the world leaders have done, and then I can follow it up. The only world leader I know here in the Chamber is the Norwegian Minister for Development, who has to follow the ambitions of the Granavolden platform. That's why I challenge him here today. Tuberculosis control has been alarmingly underfunded for many years, all years. It's too little research. There is far too little research on drugs and vaccines against tuberculosis. With the ever-increasing development of resistance we see, tuberculosis becomes more difficult to treat. We're actually at risk of going back in time, where one didn't have any medical treatment for tuberculosis beyond breathing aid. People die every day, and for them time is up, but it is perhaps now time for Norway to take a force, as politicians say, for the fight against tuberculosis. That is why I want to challenge the Minister for Development today: the Global Fund for the Control of AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria will hold a filling conference this October this year. This is a good opportunity for Norway to use our anti-tuberculosis aid. Both tuberculosis and resistant tuberculosis are an increasing global threat. How does the Council of State work to follow up the Declaration of the High Level Meeting on Tuberculosis in the United Nations in 2018, and how does the Minister of Development ensure that we can be a global driver for the fight against antibiotic resistance, as it says in the Granavolden platform?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e3551	What many people don't know is that tuberculosis is the contagious disease that takes the most lives in the world today. Every year 10 million people develop the disease. Only six out of ten are treated. Annually, 1.6 million people die. This is 1.6 million lives lost, completely unnecessary. We have committed ourselves, as was said here, to achieving all the UN's sustainability objectives. Partial objective 3.3 is to control tuberculosis and other contagious diseases. The fight against tuberculosis is therefore central to achieving the sustainability goals. It's because it's the most vulnerable that's hit hardest. In addition, the disease afflicts households and communities for important resources. Tuberculosis is therefore not just a problem for the sick and the family; the disease also represents a major developmental problem, as the interpellant pointed out. It is gratifying to see the number of cases and deaths reduced by 2-3 pst. annual. But that's not enough. To achieve the global goals set by the world community, mortality must be reduced by 5 pst. and disease cases with 10 pst. already by 2020. In other words, the world community has to do more. Therefore, the government contributes to the escalation of international efforts against tuberculosis. The government was one of the initiators of the UN High Level Tuberculosis Summit last September. It was important to mobilise increased international efforts. The high-level meeting adopted ambitious objectives for the prevention of infection and the detection and treatment of several infected people. The fight against tuberculosis requires efforts on many fronts. I would like to mention four key areas of action. Firstly, we need to increase efforts to prevent infection. There are many areas, such as congestion, smoking, immunodeficiency, etc., that increase the risk of infection. Therefore, we will also work here to help prevent tuberculosis. Prevention is central to medical interventions. The ancient BCG vaccine is still used, as mentioned here. Through the GLOBVAC Programme of the Research Council, the Government supports several research projects for the development of a more effective vaccine. But more has to be done here too. The Unitaid International Medicines Initiative is working more effectively to promote new solutions to both prevent, diagnose and treat diseases such as tuberculosis. Through Unitaid, the government supports trials of prevention treatment for children and others who are particularly vulnerable to infection, e.g. because they live with someone who has the disease. This has proved to be so effective that it has been addressed as one of the objectives of the high-level meeting. Secondly, we need to work even more effectively to detect the disease and make the right diagnosis. Every year there are about four million undetected cases of tuberculosis. Old equipment and limited capacity in laboratories in developing countries have made it difficult to diagnose. It is particularly demanding to diagnose children correctly. Unitaid has made more diagnostic tools and more effective treatment available to both adults and children in developing countries. Countries purchase and use these tools, among other things. with funding from the Global Fund for the Control of AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria. Thirdly, we need to increase efforts to ensure access to effective medicines for those who need it most. Treatment of resistant tuberculosis has unfortunately taken up to two years. In addition to all this suffering, treatment also has serious side effects, such as hearing impairment and psychosis. Here, the international community has made some progress, and from 2016, the recommended duration of treatment for multi-resistant tuberculosis is down from two to less than one year. People with HIV have poor immune response and are therefore extra exposed. Twice infection with tuberculosis and HIV is a serious public health problem in many parts of the world. Through Unitaid, the government supports the trials that are, to find out more about the effects of new drugs on resistant tuberculosis. Tuberculosis treatment has also been developed for children. The results are promising. But more research is needed here – and again: especially for children. Through our partnership, the National Association for Heart and Pulmonary Disease, LHL, provides services and effective local treatment in developing countries. As one of several important contributions from the LHL, it helps patients to take the medicine correctly, and through this we avoid developing even more resistance to treatment. Fourthly, we must work harder to combat the stigmas that follow the disease. We know that tuberculosis is shameful. It infects easily, and tuberculosis patients are in many cases excluded. This makes persons infected reluctant to seek help, even where help is available. The government therefore supports the work on awareness-raising changes, information and organisation to get more people to seek such help. Experience has shown that it is absolutely necessary to bring the ones involved, to reach out here. Civil society is a very central partner to build the knowledge needed from below. The government has increased and further aims to strengthen its assistance in the fight against tuberculosis. In 2018, the government went over 150 million. kr directly to developing countries in the fight against tuberculosis. The Global Fund for the Control of AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria is a good partner in this work. The fund reaches disease victims in more than 100 countries. Therefore, in the three-year period that we now have behind us, from 2017 to 2019, the government will have given 2 billion. for the work of the Fund on tuberculosis, malaria and AIDS. It shall be the filling-in conference of the Fund in October 2019. Norwegian aid for the period 2020-2022 will be treated by the government later this year. My aim will then be to increase support for the fund. The World Health Organisation is the hub of international work. The government will continue to be an active co-player of the World Health Organisation in these important areas. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs also cooperates closely with the Ministry of Health and Welfare on this matter. The government is in the process of developing a strategy for development policy aimed at particularly vulnerable groups. We know that tuberculosis affects just the most vulnerable. Tuberculosis and functional impairment are interrelated. Both the disease itself and the side effects of the treatment of resistant tuberculosis may result in functional impairment as mentioned. Persons with disabilities also find it more difficult to protect themselves from infection and also have less access to health services. Therefore, we will see the response to tuberculosis in the context of the vulnerability strategy. Voluntary organisations play a particularly important role in the work of vulnerable groups, including in the fight against tuberculosis. That is why I have given Norad instructions to give the work against tuberculosis increased priority this year. This work is channelled through non-governmental organisations. Norway has long been a leading force in international work on tuberculosis and other infectious diseases. It's a role we intend to have in the continuation as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e3589	When I first challenged the Minister of Development and made him meet in Stortinget for the first time, I liked the answers he had, especially that he was so clear on the ambition not only to keep the high level we have, but also to increase the filling of the global fund. As the councillors were inside, we've given about 2 billion. kr to The Global Fund, and per capita we are the largest donor country, as far as I know. France, Italy and Norway account for a total of approx. half of the deposits in The Global Fund. It was said that one is inside 100 countries, but most of it is used in sub-Saharan Africa – I think 65 pst. – where one now has extra major challenges, which I was faced with in my previous post, among other things. with migration, but also with a huge distress. The two billion that Norway has contributed together with the contributions of the others have given very large sums. Since 2002, one has saved 27 million lives from AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis. 17.5 million have received anti-HIV antiretroviral therapy, and 5 million have been tested and treated for tuberculosis. There's 197 million mosquito nets that work best against malaria by keeping the mosquito away. The model that The Global Fund uses is good. I've seen all the parts of it myself. The Global Fund receives the money, including: from us. In the different countries, they have what is called the CCM, the Country Coordination Mechanisms, which are over the funds, and there are both medical personnel, there are local staff, there are civil society and government people working together to see how they can best get something out of this money. An independent expert panel from The Global Fund, based in Geneva, monitors everything, and local experts implement it. This is a model that works. And that's a little bit of my point: Norway is a major act of assistance. There have been many ambitions for Norwegian assistance historically, but my ambition is that the money we spend should help as much as possible and benefit as possible. And what we know is that in a family where father or mother gets malaria, tuberculosis or AIDS, you put out the whole family, you drive them into poverty. You don't have social systems that we have here; you don't get food. Then is the option of escaping or getting into a maybe less constructive environment, as one sees with the bloom of terror. So this is developmental help that really works, and I want more of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e3602	In the Granavolden platform, we are very clear on the efforts related to assistance and development. 33 of the 47 least developed countries are located in sub-Saharan Africa, and it is very well described by the inter-pellant where the challenges are, including with the most vulnerable groups. This is an important area for us, so it is part of the background that the government will actively participate in global efforts to combat tuberculosis. It has to happen on many fronts. Universal health coverage is an important part of that image. As also mentioned, targeted response to tuberculosis is primarily provided through the Global Fund for the Control of AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria. Together with other donors, we contribute to that effort in many of these countries. The government will also assist in finding new methods and tools for prevention. Not only is it important for 1.6 million people to survive each year, but it is also important to prevent resistance to treatment. It is a human rights-based approach, which makes people dare to seek out information and services. It will also be very central to the control of the stigmatized disease of tuberculosis. Here we depend on the help of civil society to get even further out, so, as mentioned in the introduction, I also asked Norad to follow up on it in particular. So we're going to follow this closely. As mentioned, it is about the clear direction we have to reach the least developed countries and the most vulnerable groups in those areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e3615	In Norway, we also know the history of tuberculosis, and we have been in a situation that many countries worldwide are now experiencing. Their present story is our close story. In Norway, the overall incidence of tuberculosis is now so low that, as many of us recall, the BCG vaccine has been withdrawn from the regular vaccination programme. However, children with mother or father from countries with a high incidence of tuberculosis are recommended to be vaccinated at the health centre at six weeks of age. The international situation is completely different. Worldwide, tuberculosis is one of the leading causes of death. The prevalence of antibiotic-resistant tuberculosis is an enormous, and increasing, international problem. The incidence of tuberculosis has never been as high as it is now. The councils themselves were inside of it in their posts. The year’s letter of assignment from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to Norad wrote that increased priority should be given to work to strengthen the rights of vulnerable groups, such as disabled persons, sexual minorities, beliefs and beliefs, as well as to work against tuberculosis. I wonder how the minister sees fit to prioritize the fight against tuberculosis in his own work, and hopes he will say something about it in his final post, that is, how much emphasis he will put on this matter, looking up to the other things Norad has been asked to give priority. The Global Fund for the Control of AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria was established in January 2002 to provide a significant increase in resources to combat these diseases. The Fund is a good example of partnership between governments, civil society, the private sector and people affected by the three diseases. Since the beginning of 2002, the Global Fund has saved 27 million lives and has contributed to more than 65 pst. of all international funding for the fight against tuberculosis. This corresponds to an investment of nearly 6 billion. US dollars at the end of 2017. The fund is also one of the largest contributors to the work against resistant tuberculosis and contributed in 2017 to the treatment of 105 000 people with resistant tuberculosis. The global fund has, as many have been here, a filling conference every three years, and the sixth conference takes place in Lyon in October this year. I wonder if the Minister can give the Stortinget a signal as to what he thinks Norway will contribute to this refilling conference. I suspect the answer has already been given, but allow me to ask the question anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e3630	Thank you for a short but pleasant debate. It sounds like we're quite in agreement that we're against tuberculosis, and we're going to work even harder against it. I also feel that the Council of State is offensive in view of Norway's ambitions, and we will see if he goes more into the data in his last article. It's a little funny when the representative Moflag talks about this being a disease we've had in Norway, and so was I. Both the Revmatism Hospital in Haugesund and the Revmatism Hospital in Lillehammer were planned to be built as a tuberculosis hospital, but because of the control of the disease, they switched to something else – Revmatism, which is another disease. Now we actually see that the disease is changing, so we're a little bit ahead of us. Last weekend I read something old editor in Haugesund's newspaper, Kristian Magnus Vikse, wrote: that it's now 70 years since he survived tuberculosis because he got medication that a sailor took home, which was something new. He had a galloping toner, and it was 100 pst. fatal, but then they got the medicine home by boat. In parts of the world, you haven't gotten to where we were 70 years ago. And then we can ask, does it do anything for Norway, and why should Norwegian health politicians care about tuberculosis? Well, we'll care about more than just our own committee. I also see that disease is the basis for a lack of development in very many countries. Countries that gain control of public health also have more control over family planning, they get better finances, and they get a better business life. This means that several countries are doing their own thing. So there's actually a lot of good arguments, of course, the human being is most important, but there's a lot of good arguments to bet on disease control as an important aid project. Finally, I would like to thank the LHL Tuberculosis Foundation, which has been very helpful in recording this interpellation, for the job they're doing. LHL's tuberculosis foundation is a foundation that is a little bit on the side of LHL's work, but LHL was in its time just created in view of tuberculosis. We're hoping that we'll never need the good tuberculosis care we had in Norway. Then we have to have good prevention and development of new and good medicines, so that we don't come back here in Norway where we were 70 years ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e3643	I think I'd say that if a developmental minister didn't get involved in the infectious disease that takes the most lives in the world today, we wouldn't have done our job in a good enough way. To the question from the representative of the Workers' Party: there is a reason that one of the specific orders has already gone to Norad. It's about the competence we have, and the knowledge we need to listen to from both the civil sector and other disciplines, just to develop the work further – and it's through the big channels, like through the fund and the filling-in conference that comes in October. But this is something we're going to deal with in the government later this year, I don't want to pre-empt anything but to say that my objective is clearly that we want to see an increase in support for the fund. I think it's nice to hear this debate, even though it's long in the afternoon and evening. I also experience a clear signal from this hall to that work. We'll take that with us in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e3652	The debate on substance is closed. So 14 is over. Case No. 15–18 concerns the second reading of legal cases, and the President will propose that cases be dealt with together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e3705	No one has asked to speak on the matter. 15-18.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e3717	Then Stortinget is ready to go to the vote on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e3726	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from the Anniken Huitfeldt on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 2–6, from Audun Lighthouse on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2–6, from the Socialist Left Party. The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e3742	The centre party shall support the proposals No. 2 and 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e3747	Okay. Then we have to split up the voting. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3–5, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget to explain how Norway is working to follow up its commitments to ensure that out-of-tone ammunition is not a risk to the Libyan civilian population and how this work has actually led to the removal of those explosives.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to publish information on all bombings of the Libyan fleet in which Norway participated.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide its reasons for any future participation in international operations for the Storting. The statement shall contain a description of the amount and objectives of the contribution and the conditions under which it is to be withdrawn from the contract.’;» The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e3780	My voice is not registered.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e3785	There are several votes that are not registered. So let's do the voting again.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e3797	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 6 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to incorporate a firm practice of external evaluation after Norway has made significant contributions to international military operations.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to change its practice, so that all decisions to send Norwegian contributions to international operations are presented as a matter of voting for the Stortinget. This matter will not necessarily be replaced, but will complement any information in the enlarged Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence.’.» If I have understood correctly, the Green, Red and Senter parties will support these proposals. - It's nodding.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e3821	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to take the initiative to carry out an evaluation in an appropriate form of Norway’s contribution to the anti-ISIL coalition.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e3855	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. That is the proposal No. 1-3 from Björn Moxnes on behalf of Red. There is a vote on proposal No. Three from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with proposals to ensure, within the framework of the Constitution, that the Norwegian Defence Authority is not used outside the country’s borders except by self-defense or under UN leadership.’ The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e3881	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and the proposals No. 1 and 2, from Red. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to investigate how many were killed and injured by the bombs released by Norwegian fighter aircraft over Libya.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks to investigate whether Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg, at that time, disregarded the Ministry of Defence’s international and constitutional assessment of Norway’s entry into war with Libya, when he stated in Stortinget on 29 March 2011 that ‘Norway is not at war in a sense of international law’.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e3907	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e3912	So let's do the voting again.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e3944	In the course of the debate, a total of ten proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Marianne Marthinsen on behalf of the Workers' Party the proposals No 2-10, from Audun Lightbakken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. One, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked by the government in the revised national budget in spring 2019 to present the notified investigation of how Norway, as part of a broad pan-European solution, can contribute to the development of a sanctions regime against persons for serious violations of human rights.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e3977	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and the proposals No. 2-10, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that Norway, together with like-minded countries, requires an independent UN-led investigation into the killing of Jamal Khashoggi.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to require the immediate and unconditional release of all prisoners of conscience in Saudi Arabia, including all arrested but not convicted women activists.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to support and protect Saudi human rights defenders in Saudi Arabia and beyond.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government requests the cessation of all exports of arms, armaments and multi-use materials to Saudi Arabia and the other countries participating in the Saudi-led coalition intervening in Yemen, including exports based on licences already issued.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the government to review the exports of arms, armaments and multi-use equipment since the intervention in Yemen started, to the countries participating in the coalition which intervenes in Yemen, to ensure that Norwegian military equipment has not been used in Yemen, and to explain how Norway has ensured that Norwegian defence equipment has not contributed to violations of humanitarian law.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to start a review of all investments in arms companies through the SPU to see if SPU is invested in several companies supplying to the warring parties in Yemen, and to return to Stortinget with this in the annual State Pension Fund paper.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to carry out a thorough review of all SPU’s current investments in Saudi Arabia in order to ensure that they are in line with the fund’s ethical framework and do not violate human rights, and to return to the Stortinget with this in the annual State Pension Fund paper.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to openly and publicly criticise the release of prisoners of Saudi Arabia who are not unconditional but who place restrictions on freedom of expression and freedom of movement on the part of the released.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is requesting that all charges of torture against political prisoners in prisons in Saudi Arabia be investigated by an independent body that has access to prisons to investigate allegations of torture, abuse and sexual harassment and that those responsible must be prosecuted.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e4041	In the course of the debate, a total of ten proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-3, from Liv Signe Navarsete on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 4, from Audun Lysbakken on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 5-9, from Liv Signe Navarsete on behalf of the Centre Party proposal No 10, from Audun Lightbakken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 10, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to ensure that the number of areas ready for emergency is significantly increased in the future.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e4073	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5-9 from the Center Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to stop all ongoing cutting processes in the Home Guard.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to increase Home Protection to 45,000 soldiers.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government requests a proposal to restore Sjöheimewert’. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the target of two police officers per 1 000 inhabitants per police district.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the resources to be allocated to the development of a better basic protection of protective objects, so that this is completed by 2022 at the latest.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e4113	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a sample to be set up to carry out a thorough analysis of police staffing and resource needs based on the task developments in recent years and analyses of the police’s expected future tasks.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e4137	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and the proposals No. 1-3 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for resources to be set aside to ensure progress in improving police-defence cooperation.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that the police in North Norway are ready for transport on a permanent basis.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to ensure, as soon as possible, protective objects in line with law and regulation, and to report regularly to the Government on how work is going and what budgetary means are required to achieve targets as quickly as possible.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e4584	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e4594	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e4605	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Anette Trettebergstuen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 3 and 4, from Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 and 4 from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to initiate cooperation with the social partners in order to provide solutions for equal pay by 1 October 2019, including a possible equal pay pot in the public sector, measures for increased full time and measures to combat the gender-based labour market.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking, on the basis of the cooperation of the parties, for solutions for equal pay to return to Stortinget on the first occasion with an obliging escalating plan for equal pay, including proposals for funding.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e4638	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to launch its own tripartite programme for increasing equality with the social partners, which will receive annual funding from the State budget.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for an assessment of how an equal pay standard and certification scheme, based on the model of Iceland, can be introduced in Norway and the aim is to ensure that both private companies and public institutions introduce measures to reduce the remaining gender pay gap.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e4669	The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e4685	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Trond Giske on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen on behalf of the Centre Party the proposals No 3-6, from Freddy André Supreme Court on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3–6, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to promote a case of ensuring open and free leisure activities for children and young people in all municipalities, for example through lawmaking, ensuring municipal freedom to design their own solutions together with voluntary activities, but with requirements for basic staffing and competence and the right of young people to participate.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to reintroduce the establishment aid for leisure clubs and youth homes as an incentive scheme for municipalities.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to consider supplementing the cost key of the municipalities with a separate post for leisure time.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘Within two years’ time, the government is asked to establish a national grant scheme for cultural and leisure discounts, which allocates funds to county councils and municipalities to provide discounts to all children and young people under 20 in cooperation with local actors in sport, volunteering, cultural actors and others.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e4732	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a comprehensive plan for equipment centres/equipment schemes to be drawn up by the government, which includes a national monitoring of current offers and the development of guidance guidelines on quality, accessibility and child safety and privacy, and where measures are implemented to facilitate access for all children and young people to a centre of equipment, including young people with different disabilities’.» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e4749	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that all children and young people have access to a equipment centre where the quality of equipment borrowed is good and the security and privacy of the borrowers are emphasised. Accessibility must also include young people with different disabilities.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal. Red has announced subsidiary aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e4775	The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e4792	A total of eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-5, from Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen on behalf of the Centre Party the proposals No 6-8, from Freddy André Supreme Court on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6-8, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up a four-year escalation plan with earmarked funds to increase the staffing of municipal child protection in proposals for the State budget for 2020.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the introduction of an advisory staffing standard in which a case manager with an administrative function in municipal child protection cannot be responsible for more than a maximum of 9 to 15 children.’ [[function 244]] Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to establish a lower staffing limit for the number of municipal child protection posts and to return to the Stortinge in an appropriate manner by 2020.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e4830	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to promote a new model of child protection management in which the statutory tasks of the municipalities are continued and strengthened, in which Bufetat’s regional tasks are transferred to the county councils, where Buffdir is laid down and the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality is given overall responsibility as legislator, budget officer and facilitating control and supervisory tasks, and where the role of the county council as control and supervisory authority is strengthened.’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e4845	There is a vote on proposal No. Three, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that all children and young people assessed in foster homes/institutions receive, as early as possible, a health evaluation/consultation to ensure the monitoring, prevention and early follow-up of any emotional or behavioural problems and mental difficulties or suffering.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e4862	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. Four and five from the Center Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a case to be brought before the government to legislate that the child’s needs and mental health should always be carefully monitored before being placed in foster homes or in a child protection institution.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a case to be brought by the government to legislate cooperation agreements between child protection, health institutions and municipalities with content requirements, including procedures for cross-sectoral locations and dispute resolution arrangements.’ [[rust and psychiatry]] The Socialist Left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e4886	There is a vote on proposal No. One from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to draw up a four-year escalation plan with the aim of increasing the staffing of municipal child protection.’ The Socialist Left and Red have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e4911	The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e4927	During the debate, Mr Aasrud put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘I In Law No 24 March 2000 16 on occupational retirement provision is amended as follows: Paragraphs 3 to 3 of the first paragraph shall be replaced by the following: the pension scheme shall cover all employees of the undertaking who are at least 13 years of age, unless otherwise provided for in the law here or in the regulations laid down by the King. [[1]] Paragraphs 3 to 5 are replaced by the A part-time employee's earned pension shall be a proportionate part of the pension that would have been earned if the employee had a full-time job. II In Law No. 24 November 2000 No. 81 on occupational retirement provision is amended as follows: Paragraphs 4 to 2 of the first paragraph shall be replaced by the following: the pension scheme shall cover all employees of the undertaking who have reached the age of 13 years, unless otherwise provided for in the law here or in the regulations laid down by the King. [[1]] The legislation may provide that workers who have reached the age of 75 shall not be admitted as members. the third paragraph is deleted; The current fourth term is going to be the third term. Section 5-5, first paragraph, the second sentence is replaced by the following: For the calculation of wages and salaries, pay from the first crown shall be used. The current second sentence is going to be a new third sentence. III In Law 13 December 2013 No. 106 on occupational retirement provision is amended as follows: Paragraphs 3 to 2 of the first paragraph shall be replaced by the following: the pension scheme shall cover all employees of the undertaking who are at least 13 years of age. [[1]] The king may derogate from the provision of the first sentence by way of regulation. Paragraphs 3-4 are replaced by the following: The part-time employee's retirement benefit shall be a proportionate part of the pension that would have been earned if the employee had a full-time job. IV The amendments shall enter into force on 1 January 2021.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e5223	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e5233	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e5242	During the debate, Mr Gülsvik put forward a proposal on behalf of the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to review the changes in taxation and reporting on benefits in kind adopted and to return to the Storting with a new proposal that takes account of the broad tax base, reduced red tape and simplification of reporting.’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e5556	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e5565	Case No. 15–18 are the second time legal proceedings and relate to legislative acts 47–50. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-02.ana.ud170e5639	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? No one has done that, and the meeting has been cancelled.
