ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e88	Representatives Anniken Huitfeldt, Haarek Riveres, Martin Kolberg, Trond Helleland, Nils Kristen Sandtrøen, Dagfinn Henrik Olsen, Christian Tybring-Gjedde, Lene Westgaard-Halle and Ingerd Schou, who have been licensed, take the seat again. The former temporary deputy of Akershus County, Sheida Sangtarash, resumes its seat. They called for alternates, for Oslo, Marian Abdi Hussein, and for Nord-Trøndelag, Jorid Juliusus Nordmelan, now takes the seat. Two permit applications are available: from the representative Peter Frölich on leave from 5 June to 7 June in order to participate in land-use commemoration in Normandy 75 years ago from the Group of the Progressive Party on the Permit of the Representative Sivert Bjørnstad from 6 June to 11 June to take part in the presidential elections in Kazakhstan as an observer of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For the state of Hordaland: Sigurd Hille For Sør-Trøndelag: Lill Harriet Sandaune
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e171	The President will propose the election of one president of the Stortinges meeting today and one president of this week’s meetings – and considers it adopted. The President will propose Svein Harberg for this week's meetings and Kari Kjønaas Kjos for today's meeting. – Other proposals are not available, and Svein Harberg is unanimously elected president of the current week’s meetings, and Kari Kjønaas Kjos is unanimously elected president of the current meeting. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e195	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e204	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee for a good, lengthy and thorough cooperation in this matter. It may be more rare for a matter to be dealt with over a period of 1.5 years in the Committee, but this probably reflects the scope and complexity of this matter. The Committee has tried in its work to meet the many questions and recordings that have emerged along the way, with the utmost seriousness and respect and emphasis on assessing these carefully before delivering the cases. July 22nd-saka raised a wide-ranging discussion of criminal law rules on being imputable and on the role of legal psychiatry in deciding whether the defendant is accountable. The calculation selection was named at kgl. Res. of 25 January 2013 and was mandated to assess criminal law rules in order to be imputable, psychiatric experts and the specific reactions. The selection delivered the announcement in NOU 2014 on 28 October 2014:10 Guilty, expertise and social protection, which was then sent to the audience. The most important changes in criminal law and criminal law deal with the fundamental regulation of accountability and indebtedness where the Department proposes the offence of criminal law, cf. Paragraph 20, second paragraph, point (a) ‘psychotic’, is replaced by the cover ‘serious mental illness’. Occurrence is a non-medical, legal basis and shall include both serious mental, somatic and organic suffering with mental effects. The background to the proposal is inter alia: that it is difficult to distinguish between medical and legal psychosis interventions, and that many people with psychosis diagnoses are not psychotic by criminal law. In addition, an additional condition is established that the person is not imputable because of the suffering and that the right in his assessment is to emphasise the degree of failure in the person’s reality and function. This would indicate that the weight of the symptom at the time of action is decisive, not whether the person has a diagnosis and that it is the right, not the experts, who decide the issue of debt. The threshold for the use of special responses in the healthcare system is delayed and, in order to strengthen social protection, a distinction is made between serious and minor offences proposed for deletion as a basis for special reaction, so that the future danger the offender represents is decisive, not what the offender has committed. The requirement for flexibility and competence is strengthened and new rules for the mandate of the experts and for the declarations of experts are introduced. It is also proposed to extend the right of experts to access relevant health information. There is a separate regulation on legal psychiatric examinations and experts and a new nationwide organisation of legal psychiatry on the model of the pilot project tested at Brøset. The Government Party is generally positive and satisfied with the changes proposed by the Department in criminal law and criminal law, and sees that the legislative changes will lead to a greater level of certainty for the assessment of criminal offences, strengthen social protection and improve the quality of legal psychiatric expert work. This is important both for the legal security of individuals and for society as a whole. However, we have recorded the criticism that criminal law’s original expression ‘psychotic’ in the proposition is proposed to be changed to ‘serious mental disorder’. The critics of the proposal have shown that the expression can create confusion about the difference between the understanding of the term ‘serious mental illness’ in criminal law and the similar term used in mental health protection law. We believe that by changing the expression ‘serious mental disorder’ to the more generalized expression ‘strongly abnormal mental state’, one avoids such confusion. We also stress that it is important to ensure that in practice the right does not leave the experts to decide whether a person is to be considered to be unreliable and therefore to be exempted from punishment. A clearer distinction between the general-language legal term and the medical professional term is necessary to ensure this. In addition, we would like the amendment to counteract unfortunate links and associations between mental illness and criminal behaviour. Finally, I would like to stress that the expression ‘severely abnormal state of mind’ shall be understood in the same way as the expression ‘serious mental disorder’ used in the proposition and thus does not imply any change in reality. I would like to address the proposal from the Right and the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e236	The representative Frida Melvær has thus taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e241	First of all, thank you to the case spokesperson for working on a matter that has been a doctor in the committee for well over a year. The criticism of the proposal contained in the motion for a resolution, and the new proposal tabled today by the Right and the Progress Party, has been massive. The criticism is partly against the bill being presented to the Stortinget without previous rounds of hearings, partly because the legal text and discussions are unclear, and partly because too much is left to the courts. On the one hand, a number of hearing bodies also point out that the risk of arbitrariness and discrimination is too great when it comes to the decision that the Stortinget is most likely to take today. It is claimed from several quarters that the decision taken today by Stortinget may lead to an increase in the possibility of declaring people unreliable, which I have not heard being a political desire from a single party. The Labour Party believes it is irresponsible to make the decision that the majority make today, with a change in the penal code that was changed in the committee without a general hearing in advance. So it's important for me to stress that I don't believe it necessarily is the huge political disagreements about the goal in the matter, namely that people should to the greatest extent possible be responsible for their actions, but the process in the matter is under all criticism. We note that the government party has tried to take on much of the criticism of the bill, but as the case-speaker concluded his previous post, she stresses that the change from the committee to change the use of the change in Section 20 does not lead to a change in reality. In other words, we are still discussing the same proposal – in a slightly different way. We have been clear, both informally and formally, that this matter should have been sent back to the Ministry of Justice for proper treatment. Had one done so, I believe that the outcome could have been quite another today. The fact that one changes the notion of “serious mind disorder” to “strongly abnormal state of mind” clears up to the point of some confusion, but it does not help much as long as one is also very clear that everything in the proposition is still at stake. The Judicial Committee held two hearings on this proposition. It's not very common, but we did it once again because there was a new proposal. All the hearing authorities, perhaps with the exception of one, were quite clear that the Storting must not make this decision, that one must send this matter back for proper treatment. It is not that warnings come from the opposition only. The national lawyer strongly warns against the decision that the majority seems to be making today. The Association of Lawyers does it, a number of legal psychiatrists do it, Norwegian Forensics Association does it – academic environment on both sides, to use those words, within both psychiatry and law. The assessment of imputability is based on this decision for openness and affordability, in order to take account of the traditional features of criminal justice, simply foregleams, and not least the similarity of the law. Furthermore, neither the wording nor the pre-worked here would set a clear criterion for what imputability actually means. For the Labour Party, it is not relevant to support a proposal that is made by a minority today, about changes in accounting rules, serious changes that we really don't understand the consequences of. The feedback is that in the worst case, we get the opposite of the part that they think they want. Therefore, I ask the majority to listen to the opposition in this matter. I'm asking the government to listen to the hearing bodies, to the National Attorney, who are strongly warning you against the decision you're going to make today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e266	There are important changes in the law that the Storting adopts today. The rules on inviolability are a fundamental part of our criminal law legislation, and a comprehensive review of the rules on both indebtedness, social protection and expertise is both correct and important. The aim of the legislative amendments is to provide greater certainty in identifying those offenders who, on the grounds of the grounds for punishment, are not to be liable, i.e. those who cannot be blamed for their actions. In addition, a key aspect of this legislative work is the need to strengthen social protection and improve the quality of legal psychiatric expertise. It is important to bring with it the historical background of the changes in the law that are being dealt with today. The July 22 case revealed weaknesses in the rules of criminal law on inadmissibility and created a debate on the influence of legal psychiatry in determining whether the defendant is incalculable or not. In the Progress Party, we are in favour of the changes proposed by the government in the criminal law and the criminal law relating to indebtedness, social protection and experts. We believe that these contribute to meeting the objective of creating greater certainty in terms of the identification of unpredictable offenders. The change in the law will also, as we see it, strengthen social protection and improve the quality of legal psychiatric expert work. It is very important to ensure legal certainty for individuals, but also for society as a whole. I am pleased that there is an overall committee which stresses that there are no political disagreements about the purpose of the matter, and that is important. A Joint Committee considers that persons should be placed as far as possible in charge of their actions and wishes to further clarify the role and responsibilities of the courts. It is an important signal that a Joint Committee considers that society has the full right to protect itself against dangerously unpredictable and agrees that the intention of the proposal is to reduce the level of detachment. For us in the Progress Party, it is also important that the proposed law promoted by the Ministry commits to strengthening social protection by lowering the threshold for the use of special responses in health care, so that from now on it is the future risk of crime to justify the special reaction mechanism. It is very important that, in particular, the victim in criminal proceedings is adequately protected and taken into account. At the same time, it is important to society for the rest, and enhanced social protection is the very objective of this change in rules. It is worth noting that the Department of Proposition opens up the possibility that the proposal could lead to more unpredictable judgements for a special reaction. It is also an important and proper step by the government to propose legislative changes to help improve the quality of the work of experts. The experts shall be subject to stricter requirements. It is appropriate to introduce a separate regulation on legal psychiatric examination and experts, as this will help to clarify the requirements for the work of experts, while also making the legislation more accessible to users. A minimum content requirement is introduced for the mandate of the experts in the case of a judicial psychiatric examination, as well as minimum rules on the design of the statement of experts. The introduction of these requirements will clearly enhance the quality of the work of the experts and contribute more to more accurate and verifiable judgments in the courts. As both the rapporteur and the chairman of the committee have been involved, it has been a demanding matter. I am very pleased that the Storting will finally make this decision. It is not to hide that it is a demanding matter to deal with, but I am pleased that we are going to deal with it, and that it will be adopted. The future will show whether to make such a commitment and the purpose of the law, which is to strengthen social protection and improve the quality of the work of legal psychiatrists.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e285	First of all, I would like to thank the case rapporteur and the committee for their work on this matter, because it has been a demanding matter for the committee. As others have argued, there is really no disagreement about the very objective of the case, which is to place the greatest possible responsibility for their actions, but the Central Party believes that the process has been too bad. The proposal with which the Committee is now left is unclear. It can have unintended consequences. I believe that it is not proper to adopt. We therefore believe that the matter should not be dealt with today, but sent back to the government. It's about having a debt, that is. whether you are liable to criminal law and can be sentenced to punishment. As we all know, the case comes into the cold water of the 22nd of July trials and the probability committee, which was set up to assess the rules of the penal code. Their conclusion was that the psychosis condition and the medical model of insanity for mental illness should be maintained. In addition, a rule was proposed specifying, on the one hand, a legal clarification of the psychosis criterion of the law and, on the other hand, states that conditions equivalent to psychosis should be included. Nevertheless, the government sent a proposal to the Storting on a completely new proposal, replacing the concept of the penal code ‘psychotic’ with the basic condition ‘serious mental illness’. So it was a new proposal – with a new concept and a new legal paragraph – that had not been at the hearing before the matter was sent to Stortinget. That proposal was strongly criticised in the first hearing of the Judicial Committee after the case came to Stortinget. Instead of sending the matter back to the government, a new proposal was made to replace the term ‘serious mental disorder’ with ‘extremely abnormal mental state’ as the criterion. But also that proposal was slaughtered in the hearing. We had two hearings. Both have slaughtered the government's proposal. The Committee was strongly advised – with the exception of one – by almost all the hearing bodies present at the last hearing to refer the matter back to the government. What we are dealing with today is a serious, deep-seated case, which has major consequences for criminal law. I'm not sure everyone here is aware of the consequences. Once the government's proposal has been so strongly criticised in two hearings, and when it had not been at the hearing before the matter came to the Grand Council, I think it is absolutely incredible that we are standing here and are going to adopt a proposal against which we have been so strongly warned. The matter has been dealt with in Stortinget for over one year. It shows that the matter is difficult, but I believe that in itself it is not an argument for adopting something today. We have also learned through the hearings that the law that exists today works. There is no haste to put in place a new piece of legislation. It is the Stortinge which legislates in this country, and it is the Storinge which must determine where the threshold of inadmissibility should be. As the proposal that is going to have a majority today, the provision is now so unclear that the courts have no good guidance on what the Storting actually meant. The parties to the Government Right and the Advance Party state directly in their comments that ‘the level of seriousness of a condition in order to be imputable shall be defined by the courts’. In practice, it will be up to the courts to decide who, under Norwegian law, should be unreliable. I believe that is putting the legislator's task to the courts. The Advocate General has pointed out that neither the wording nor the preparatory workman sets out a clear criterion for what imputability should mean. The central party believes that it is completely irresponsible to adopt a rule of indebtedness that is so unclear, where it is not certain that it is possible for the courts to understand what the Stortinget has meant, and where we in practice put the task of determining what should be the threshold of indebtedness in Norway, to people who are not politically elected, namely the courts. It is very unfortunate that the government instead of listening to the hearing bodies and the opposition chooses to push the matter through with a narrow majority in Stortinget, especially because we all agree that we want to change the rules of imputability. This is not a matter of major political divisions. We could have reached a broad majority in the Grand Duchy if the government had been a little more humble and sent the matter back, so that we could have a thorough and sound treatment, instead of the decision that will be taken by the government parties today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e304	The July 22 case revealed weaknesses in the criminal law rules on inadmissibility and created a debate on the influence of legal psychiatrists on whether the defendants are inconceivable. On that basis, the Assets Committee was established and they made their investigation on 28 October 2014. The proposition to be taken into account by the Storting is a follow-up to the proposals in that investigation. I note that the majority of the Judicial Committee does not support the government's proposal and that the majority proposes to send the proposition back to the government. At the same time, I am pleased that a minority in the Committee on Justice, the representatives of the Right and the Progressive Party support the proposal. I think it is important for the follow-up after 22 July that these proposals are now adopted. There's several reasons for that. Firstly, it is important to put in place a consistent rule on who should be exempted from punishment because of impunity. Secondly, it is important to strengthen social protection. Thirdly, it is important to improve the quality of legal psychiatric expertise. With regard to the rules of criminal law on inviolability resulting from mental illness, the government proposes that the term «psychotic» be replaced by the term «serious mental illness». This shall include mental, somatic and organic disorders with effects on the mind. The legislative proposal lays down additional conditions under which persons must be unpredictable because of this suffering, and it is further expressly stated in the law that, in the case of discretionary judgement, the right must emphasise the degree of failure of the person’s understanding of reality and functioning. I have noticed that the minority of the Judicial Committee proposes to replace the condition ‘serious mental disorder’ by ‘strongly abnormal mental state’. As a result of the additional conditions I have just mentioned, such a change will not have a bearing on the severity of the overall amount of symptoms required in order to be free from punishment. I therefore have no strong contradictions with the change that the minority has made. There are several problems with today's rule. Firstly, it affects both too many and too few people — too many because psychosis diagnosis can lead to the imposition of impunity even though the person’s understanding of reality at the time of action is not so dire that he cannot be blamed for the crime. It affects too few people who have a mental state of deformity that is equally disruptive to the perpetrator's sense of reality and motivation that psychosis is, can be punished today. Examples include some serious cases of autism and dementia. On the basis of the rules on the non-punishment of the indebted person, this appears unreasonable. The government’s proposal will also make it clear that the weight of the symptoms at the time of action is essential to exempt him from punishment, and not whether the person has a particular diagnosis. Another problem of current practice is that it is the experts who define the content of one of the basic terms of the penal code. Such practice is not suitable for ensuring legal clearance and legal entity. On the other hand, the Government's proposal would make it clear that the right to determine the content of the rule of inadmissibility, rather than the experts, is the right. Transferring the power of definition to justice will facilitate the development, through case-law, of a fixed and uniform threshold as to how sick or how deviant one must be to be considered to be unpredictable. In order to ensure such a development, I believe, like the minority of the Judicial Committee, that it is absolutely essential that the terms of the law be described in general terms and not through a medical term, as psychotic. In the light of the criticism received by the government in the public debate, I would like to stress: the proposal will not imply a relativisation of the threshold in order to be regarded as improbable, so that the person goes free, while another person who is equally ill will be punished. As the Legal Affairs Committee minority points out in the vote, the threshold is general and applies to all. It is crucial that the perpetrator is so ill that he reaches the threshold.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e329	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e334	My question is really quite simple. What I'm wondering about is the reason why the proposal contained in the proposition that came from the government was not sent on a general hearing at the front of the bulk treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e339	So it is true that this proposal was also investigated, and it was within the framework of what is normal that you can send to the Stortinget without a separate hearing. This has been mentioned earlier in the proposals sent out at the hearing. There was no news that this could be the result. You usually send suggestions just to get input from others. Then you get a recording, and then it's natural that you sometimes listen to the recordings and change what was in the original draft of the hearing, until you send it over to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e347	I record that the Council of State is quite clearly committed to what the government thinks. Does this mean that the Council of State believes that the Riksadvokat and all the hearing bodies at the hearing of the Judicial Committee are wrong? In which way does the Council of State think that, for example. Is the Advocate General mistaken, especially when it comes to the fact that the decision we are going to take today is likely to lead to discrimination and arbitrariness?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e352	Today, it is the legal experts in each case who decide whether it is indebted or not. It's not the judge. The judge has little opportunity to review a judicial decision. This was exemplified in the July 22 trial, where two different opinions were received from the experts. It also shows that it is not today that you have equal treatment in all cases. It may differ greatly. That was the result of the expert. There is no uniform threshold today, and it makes it difficult for the judges to see whether it is actually the case that you have fulfilled the conditions of the law or not, and if you are going to review the expert report, it is difficult for a court to have proof of that, because you are not actually invited to enter that decision. [[President clubs]] You'll be when... [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e359	This is pretty eye-catching. The last time I checked, there were judges who passed judgments in Norwegian courts, and not experts. It also happened in July 22th. When it comes to the claims made by several hearing authorities during the hearing, it was claimed from the heavy academic community both on the Legal and Psychiatric sides that these new rules could lead to many more being declared unreliable. Let's say that happens. Would the Council of State be willing to evaluate the legislative changes at a certain time? Will he follow developments closely and, if so, if it would have such consequences as I do not believe the Council of State would like to take the initiative to return to the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e366	That's a hypothetical question, so I get to give a hypothetical answer to that. If you don't achieve what you want with the law, the Storting can change the law. If there's a current problem, you'll probably come back. But I actually believe that this bill will be more accurate than the current law. I think that will lead to fewer settlements, and more people have guilt. Then there'll probably be someone who doesn't have a debt, because they're, for example, have a serious illness that prevents them from being punished.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e373	There has been a lot of criticism of the proposal and what the majority in the European Parliament is going to adopt today, especially against the fact that the new proposal is very unclear. At the last hearing of the Judicial Committee, the Association of Advocates said: ‘Provides a practical abstinence from its task of defining the terms of punishment. So you leave to the courts what is a very important and, in principle, difficult topic." Then I wonder, what is the Council of State's comment on that? And does the Council of State think it is right to pass such a political decision on to the courts?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e383	What we're doing here in the law is specifying the terms and conditions to be interpreted. And so it is that there will always be a case-law – it will in most criminal cases. But we've given pretty clear terms here. The condition is that there should be a strongly abnormal state of mind, and then there is a basic condition that this must have led to an unpredictability at the time of the act. This is a condition that is quite clear and clear, and I can't see that there are any ambiguities around it. It is also important to focus on other things, such as whether you had the opportunity to plan the action and take active action, so that you have a sense of reality that makes one here not able to say that this is a person that was unpredictable at the time of the act. This I think is actually things that can be involved and lead to more people who can go free, being counted as having guilt.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e392	The proposal has also been criticised for using the word ‘unpredictable’ to define what is unpredictable, when it is said that the person who is unpredictable is one who is unpredictable because of a highly abnormal state of mind. There is a logical flaw there – it is difficult for the courts to determine what is actually meant. So I wonder, how does the Council of State think that this is so much more accurate, when the hearing bodies describe the rule as unclear, unpredictable and arbitrary?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e399	Not all the hearing bodies do. You add up here to a threshold where there should be an assessment of how ill the perpetrator is. And if he's so sick that he gets over the threshold that you can say he's unpredictable, he won't have a debt. So this will also have to be seen together with action to increase the legal psychiatric competence, so that you can also know what mental condition the perpetrator has been in at the time of the act. But the most important thing is perhaps that it is the judge who has the decisive word. The judge has had clear criteria to assess the case on the basis of, unlike today, where it is difficult to review the report of the offender.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e406	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e413	This matter has been the subject of a great deal of attention from various actors during the Committee's proceedings. The Committee has therefore stressed the need to give the most opportunity to express its views. For this reason, there have been two calls in the Committee, as well as several separate meetings, telephone calls and e-mails. Saka has also been the subject of several media essays and debates. Essentially, the actors that made recordings to the NOU from the probability committee, NOU 2014: 10, hold to their respective points of view, and I cannot therefore see that there are significant new information that has not been mentioned and evaluated in the proposition. We know that the hearing aids were roughly in the middle of their NOU recordings. I would like to stress that there are legislators who set the terms of time for someone to be considered unbiased, that is not the courts. The terms and conditions are derived from the remaining contents of the bill and the proposal. The proposal provides for a two-stage assessment where Section 20(a), (b) or (c) will be the subject of the first assessment, i.e.: strongly abnormal state of mind severe disturbance of consciousness high degree of mental retardation I would remind you that the condition ‘severely abnormal state of mind’, point (a), shall be interpreted in the same way as the original proposed expression ‘serious mental disorder’, which is useful in the proposition. In the second assessment, the uncertainty assessment according to the third paragraph of Section 20, the degree of failure of reality and functionality shall be emphasised. According to current law, in principle the courts have to decide whether the perpetrator is legally psychotic and therefore unreliable. However, there is a widespread perception that, in practice, there is legal psychiatry, not courts, which today define how the ‘psychotic’ approach should be understood – not only in a medical but also in a legal sense. This is something that the Projectivity Committee also highlights in its work. Such a system, where the content of one of the basic conditions of criminal liability is in practice interpreted and developed by the psychiatry, is not capable of ensuring legal clearance and justice. Determining whether someone is unreliable and therefore not to be punished with prison is between the most complex questions we face in criminal matters. Here, difficult questions cross each other, about law, medicine and legal psychiatry. As a legislator, we draw up the framework for which conditions must be met in order for someone to be considered as unpredictable.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e442	I will not say so much more, I feel that most things have come to light as to where the opposition and position stand in this matter. There is only one question I feel that the government parties have not answered well enough, and it is quite simple: I do not understand what is so urgent. What is so heavy for the government parties and those who are now a majority in this case in the Grand Duchy that we must now adopt the case, despite the fact that we have received warnings from the legal communities, from the courts, from the National Attorney General, from the forensic environment, and despite the fact that we do not really disagree with the objective. I do not understand why it is so important for the government parties to get through this matter today. It had to be much better that we sent the matter back to the government and got a thorough and proper treatment of it. This will have a major impact on criminal law in Norway and on the courts. It says that all the power is in this room, and I feel strongly that afterwards we're going to vote, we're going to push our buttons a little bit, and suddenly we've changed the legal state of indebtedness in a way that we don't know the consequences of. That's actually what's going on. I believe that it would have been much wiser to think like this: one more time, go back to it, send the matter back to the government and come back to the Stortinget with new treatment on a much better basis, which hopefully could gain greater support in the legal environment. For what is happening today, I believe is completely irresponsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e450	I'm totally in agreement with the previous speaker. I also think it's a shame that we've got yours. My impression is that this case is so heavy and difficult and that one is perhaps starting to get a little tired, so one wants to finish and get her attached. What should be said is that there's a lot of good in this proposition. It's very good when it comes to social protection. There's a lot of us here about, for example. in the case of experts. We are quite a few of them. But it is important not to create the impression that there are experts who reject judgments in Norwegian courts. It is not. But that the legal psychiatric role and expert role got a good break and debate after July 22, there is no doubt about it. That's why it's so sad that today we can't come up with anything we can only do about. We could have done that if the government party had listened to us a year ago. If this matter had been sent back at an early stage, we might have been a completely different place now. Unfortunately, there will be some changes that may have consequences that we still don't know about. I have been a member of the Justice Committee for six years and have been sitting on the Stortinget for nearly ten years, and I have rarely experienced such massive resistance from such a heavy professional environment as in this matter. The political risk that the government party is taking on here today, I don't want to be on, so I'm asking you to think carefully until voting. It's not too late to turn.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e459	I am a little surprised at the idea from the opposition that we have had such a hurry with this matter. The calculation team was appointed in 2013 and handed over its NOU in 2014. The Ministry has been on the ground for several years and has dealt with it thoroughly there before being sent to the Committee one year ago. The committee has spent one year on this matter, and I sincerely believe that we have done a thorough job. We've let everyone who's loved it speak up and say meaning. I would also like to stress that the hearing aids have been divided in the middle. And it is clear that those who have been most dissenting in the position and conclusions of the department have been the ones who have been most clearly opposed when we have met them in the hearings that the committee has had. However, the hearing aids are still divided in the middle. They stick to their respective visions. We have listened to them, we have evaluated them and taken them seriously and concluded with the recommendations that lead to the Storting for treatment today. I believe that the opposition is mistaken and expresses something that is wrong, when they claim that we have been hasty about this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e472	The representative, Lene Vågslid, has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e477	The cause has not gone very quickly. The point is, someone's in a hurry right now. That's the starting point: when the criticism gets as strong as it is now, one doesn't listen. My clear claim is that this case has a doctor in Stortinget and in the committee one year completely without a reason. It has been of no value that she has a doctor there for one year, all the time the change the government party seemed to come to, today being underlined with all clarity does not imply any change in reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e482	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e498	The Committee has considered Prop. 100 L for 2018–2019, Changes in criminal law, etc., terror-related international obligations, etc., where the Ministry proposes legislative changes that follow up international obligations and recommendations in the area of terrorism. I would like to thank the Committee for its speedy examination of the proposal and the concrete amendments proposed by the government, which an overall committee seems to be behind. Today’s proposals are about travel for terrorist purposes, acts of terrorism against aviation, the binding of economic resources and the rules of the Collection Act on professional qualifications. It facilitates the ratification by Norway of the Riga Protocol through a specialised criminal order against travel for terrorist purposes and a legislative amendment which clarifies that the financing of travel for the purpose of providing or receiving terrorist training can be penalised as terrorist financing. These are amendments implementing international obligations under UN Security Council Resolution 2178 and the Riga Protocol to the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism. Furthermore, amendments to the penal code aimed at terrorist acts against aviation have been proposed. The Proposition proposes to criminalise the hazardous use of aircraft, as well as the use and release of certain weapons and hazardous materials from aircraft. In addition, minor adjustments are made to the criminal provisions on hijacking. The proposed amendments will facilitate the accession of Norway to the Beijing Convention to combat acts of unlawful interference related to civil aviation security and the Beijing Protocol to combat the illegal use of aircraft, further developing conventions already in force in Norway. Changes have also been proposed to the rules on the bonding of economic resources, which facilitate a more effective and safe use of that measure. These proposals are based mainly on an evaluation report on Norway, issued in 2014 by the Financial Action Task Force, FATF. The transfer of this legislation from the Criminal Procedures Act to the Police Act has been proposed in order to comply with international recommendations that binding should be independent of criminal proceedings. Banding shall no longer be a criminal offence, but shall be decided by the Police Security Service as a non-enforcement measure based on the Police Act. In addition to these proposals, changes are also made to the collection law, and the correction of incubators in the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e513	I am also very pleased that today we are dealing with and adopting these changes, and that a total increase is behind this. As the rapporteur pointed out, this proposition involves several changes, including several important changes, in terms of punishing and preventing terrorism. Some of these changes stem from the UN Security Council Resolution 2178 of five years ago, which the then President Obama himself led, is about obligations to prevent and prevent foreign fighters and about criminalising travel with terror as its object. The time we are now in and the development we have seen of IS lately shows that it is important and necessary that the international community stands together and has equal rules in this area, so that we do not see again the same kind of blossoming of foreign warriors as we have seen with the Islamic State. I am therefore very pleased that the Stortinge today adopts more intrusions and new punishments in this area. It is also very good that we update the law and take over the fact that the technology is changing, the time is changing. Where violence was used in the past as an opportunity to take over aircraft and ships, today it can be done through technology – without making it any minor form of terror or assault on civilians and others affected. I am therefore very pleased that the Storting decided this today. This is something we need in the time we live in now.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e524	Today, the government is proposing changes to the law that ensure that we comply with international obligations and recommendations in the area of terrorism, and it is gratifying that there is an overall judicial committee behind the proposal. It is important that we support international cooperation against terrorism and follow up on the criminalisation obligations contained in the international agreements. The aim of the proposed changes is to make visible to a large extent the loyal implementation of our international commitments and also the fact that some of the proposals involve a new criminalisation. Firstly, the government is proposing a special penal order against travel for terrorist purposes. It has an important signal effect that we get our own penalty order of this kind of act. The use of hidden coercive measures could also be essential for the effective enforcement of the ban on terrorist travel and for the prevention of such travel. Therefore, in the event of an infringement of the criminal order for terrorist travel, it shall be possible to use unannounced search, technical sounding equipment in clothing, items, etc., communication interception and data reading. On the other hand, it is not proposed to open up space listening. The government also proposes a legislative amendment which makes it clear that funding travel for the purpose of providing or receiving training in terrorism can be penalised as terrorist financing. These changes ensure that we fulfil the obligations under UNSCR 2178 and the Riga Protocol of the Council of Europe Convention on Terrorism. Secondly, the government is proposing changes to the penal code aimed at acts of terrorism against aviation. The Criminal Code will have a specialised provision on the hazardous use of aircraft and the use and release of certain types of weapons and hazardous materials from aircraft. The government also proposes a certain extension of the hijacking rules, including: the provision concerns hijacking carried out for a longer period than before, from the start of the preparation of the aeroplane to approximately one day after it has landed. It is also made clear that hijacking involves obtaining control of an aeroplane using technological aids. Furthermore, there will therefore no longer be a requirement for the perpetrator to be on board the aeroplane in order for the action to be covered by the provision. The legislative changes facilitate Norway’s accession to the Beijing Convention of 2010 on combating illegal acts related to civil aviation security and to the Beijing Protocol of 2010 on combating the illegal use of aircraft. Thirdly, amendments to the rules on binding are proposed. Bonding means that all assets belonging to a person are frozen, e.g.: by blocking bank accounts. Banding may be carried out if someone for good reason is presumed to have committed an act which is subject to specified terrorist provisions in the Criminal Code. The rules on the bonding of economic resources are proposed to be moved from the Criminal Procedures Act to the Police Act. The aim of the amendment is to comply with international recommendations that binding be independent of criminal proceedings. Other amendments to the rules on binding are also proposed, which facilitate a more effective and legally sound use of the measure. The Government is pleased to present this proposal which ensures that Norway fulfils its international obligations and supports it during international cooperation against terrorism.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e539	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e555	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a change of line of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e564	We've discussed up and down a lot about what we can do with the capacity challenges in our judicial system. In general, there is always one universal solution to all problems, and there is more money – escalating, more resources, more resources, greater strength, increased bet and other jubilee words and jubilee phrases that we politicians know very well. What might well be so good, is doing things a little smarter, just to make some wise priorities and disposals. The proposal we are considering today is an example of that. It is a proposal recommended by a highly competent selection, the Criminal Procedures Commission, and it has received broad support in the consultation process that has been in place. What we know today is that there is going to be a release of valuable time in the judiciary – one thing is for judges, but also for other actors, for example. the police, the prosecution authority and other actors normally involved in legal proceedings, such as: witnesses and witness support apparatus, interpreters, experts, etc. This is going to be economical in a lot of ways, and all of this is done without going one millimetre on the chord with the basic legal certainty in Norway. Of course, it is very easy to predict that this is where the criticism of the proposal will come. It sounds ominous when someone says that this is at the expense of legal certainty, but it is simply a mistake. It's important to underline. All matters shall continue to be dealt with in a second instance. It will be wise judges and evaluate each and every point in the appeal. But it's not an automatic in that all cases should go to a court hearing. That's the difference. Important legal mechanisms have also been built into the law to ensure legal certainty, e.g.: all judges must agree that a case should be dismissed and it must be clear that the appeal cannot be filed. There are strict criteria, and that's what it has to be. It is also the case that cases of appeal and rejection can be further appealed – one can appeal to the decision of the Supreme Court. The requirement for justification for such rejection is very, very strict. These are judgements in which our capable, good judges are well trained. They are familiar with the assessments from other fields, e.g. civil and other criminal matters. When the debate on the situation in the courts arose a few years ago and it was really time to discuss court policy, there was, of course, a demand for more money, more money and more money. We're going to do that, but we also had to have a discussion about what we can do differently, and representatives from the government parties here on the Stortinget addressed the very proposal we have today. We had a good public debate that time, and now I am very happy and want to thank the government for doing what we wanted, namely to lift this proposal from the Criminal Procedures Committee and run it through the Storting before the rest of the Criminal Procedures Act is dealt with. I think that's important, because it's going to have a direct impact on our legal system from this year on. It's estimated that somewhere between 15 and 31 million. kr may be saved for courts, police and prosecution authorities and a place between 9 and 17 million. kr for the other actors in the judicial system. It means something, but what matters is that it frees up time and speeds up the process for all of us. There is also legal certainty. So we get the same legal certainty and faster procedure. I think it sounds like a good solution, and I am pleased that the proposal is going through today. I refer to the proposal from the Right and the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e581	The representative Peter Frölich has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e586	Thank you very much to the case spokesperson for both the article and the work. I share with the case spokesperson's experience of the criminal law selection process. They've done a very thorough job. The case manager didn't mention that the selection was split. They had a multiple and a minority, and the Labour Party has landed on, after a few rounds, that we support minorities in the Criminal Procedures Committee. That's why I'm here. as follows: The minority in the selection suggests that the legal security aspect is not well followed up enough in the plural basis, and suggests that there should be a three-year requirement – a claim or a sentence – to be able to exercise the right to appeal without any conditions. In addition, they believe that there should be a requirement for a penalty framework of more than six years, as it normally gives an indication of the legislator and society’s view of the general criminal value of the offence. When it comes to limiting what things you should be able to keep out of the silage scheme, the minority in the selection means that there is a limit on what you can achieve from saved resource use if the six-causes are covered by the silage scheme. The minority in the selection writes that their experience is that the parties to serious criminal proceedings, which are covered by today's rules of silling, spend a lot of time and resources over-interpreting the right that the appeal should be referred to. For the court, it also requires a lot of work to provide an adequate basis for recruitment in the most serious cases. The result, therefore, is that the anchor is dropped in, rather than extensive treatment being done at the silling stage. The Labour Party believes that the basis for the two-institution reform of 1995 is still valid. At that time, the Norwegian process became more consistent with the UN Convention on Civil and Political Rights, which states that each jurisdiction has the right to review the fallout in at least one instance. So it's not always as popular to mean it, but it's a principle in law that it's better that ten men go free than a man be judged wrong. The proposal, as we see it, suggests that it is possible after consideration in the district court to know for certain what matters should certainly not be brought into the law of the team. The case spokesperson is right that there is a small minority of hearing authorities that agree with this, but the law firm emphasizes this very carefully. I want to thank the case spokesperson for being very honest. I like Peter Frölich. This matter is about capacity. This is not a fundamental discussion. This is a proposal that the government party thinks makes sense, because you don't have the intention to spend much more money on the courts of the year to come. We've had significant cuts in our courts in recent years. We see that court magistrates are being terminated. The committee recently visited the district court in Stavanger. There was a filthwriter who had worked for over 20 years, and he had never quit people before last year. So it shines through that this does one because one hopes that it will save significantly with costs. There I would like to underline that the selection on which the case is based is shared in view of it. Then, in our view, and I also believe from the viewpoint of the government party, it would save us considerable resources if we got sound and image in court. This would have been the case for documenting statements, witnesses and trials in a completely different way, and in Norway we are far from other countries such as Norway. Sweden. Here we believe that the government should put forward a clear plan for the implementation of sound and images in Norwegian courts, and I also think that we should look at the possibility of temporary solutions until a possible high-tech solution, which according to the Court of Justice will cost a lot of money, is in place. It would have strengthened the legal certainty of people. But as I said, we're supporting a certain level of appeal. Some of us believe that a penalty framework of more than six years should be imposed, on the basis of a claim or a sentence of three years, as proposed by the minority in the selection, on the right to appeal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e605	The possibility for the court to review a conviction in appeal is a fundamental requirement for legal certainty and the human rights principle that Norway is obliged to follow. Today, the appeal to the Lawyers' Court may be scrutinised by an appeal committee which rejects or refers the appeal to full treatment, on the condition that the appeal committee has to carry out a real review of the judgment of the Court of First Instance in the light of what is stated in the appeal. Reasons must be given for the decision. Since the two-institutional reform in 1995, the convictions for offences with a penalty framework of more than six years have had an unconditional right to ordinary appeals. The Government is now proposing to abolish this right as a follow-up to the majority of the Criminal Procedures Committee. The government proposes that cases of more than six years of imprisonment in criminal law should also be subject to so-called appeals. Like the Workers’ Party, the Centre has the country not to support the government’s proposal, but will instead make an alternative proposal to limit unconditionally the right to appeal to cases with a penalty period of more than six years, where it has been claimed or sentenced to imprisonment for more than three years, detention or transfer to forced mental health protection or forced care. The criminal law commission was divided into the view of appeals. The minority pointed out that the main argument for introducing appeals for all cases has been saved on resource use, but also noted that the legal security aspect has not been adequately addressed in the majority’s reasoning. The importance of legal certainty is opposed to the effectiveness and use of resources in this case. The central party understands the government's desire for an effective judicial process without undue use of resources, for an unconditional right to appeals always gives rise to a risk that cases that are clearly not going to lead to full proceedings. However, we believe that the proposal, which is being given a majority today, goes too far in challenging legal certainty. The full appeal procedure for some cases that are clearly not likely to be brought is a small price to be paid to ensure the conviction of legal certainty in the most serious cases. Punishment is the most invasive coercion society can impose on a citizen. We have had ugly examples of murders in Norway in recent times, and we should do what we can to prevent it from happening again. Then the appeal system is very important, especially in the most serious cases. The minority of the criminal justice commission has pointed out that the amount of resources saved by extending the appeal procedure is unclear. The parties often use a lot of resources to promote an appeal to the law, which can be expected to increase if the unconditional access to appeal is removed for the most serious cases. Another question is whether law enforcement rights will have the possibility and the will to limit the rejection of anchors to what is actually intended, namely anchors that will clearly not produce. Firstly, the rights of the team members do not have a complete basis for decision when dealing with them in the appeal committee. The file received by the appeal committee is not intended to be a full basis for deciding and answering the guilt question in a case. Secondly, we may risk taking labour pressure and capacity in the courts as a harmless consideration in the appeal proceedings. Lawyers' rights have a very demanding workload and sometimes a very long procedure. For example, in 2018, the length of proceedings for evidence of more than six years was eight months in Borgarting Lawyers' Law and seven months in Eidsivating Lawyers' Law. A total of 383 cases were dealt with in the law courts in 2018, but the number of pending cases increased and was on 201 cases. These were evidence of six years of detention in 2018. In a demanding resource situation with high labour pressure, it may be tempting to facilitate the work situation on slipping out and rejecting anchors. The Courts have been in a difficult economic situation for a long time and have received large budget cuts due, inter alia, to: the red tape and efficiency reform. The centre party believes that removing the general appeal procedure for the most serious cases would be to go too far to achieve a chronic savings. It could threaten legal certainty. Instead of removing such a very important legal certainty guarantee in order to save money, the government should increase the allocation to the courts.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e626	The main position of the SV in this case is that suspects in the most serious criminal cases should be able to try their case with full main proceedings in two instances. We do not support the government's proposals in the proposal as we believe this proposal goes too far. SV is very concerned that strict silage practices combined with the re-use of evidence provided by the District Court do not adequately ensure basic legal certainty. When the two-institutional proceedings were put in place precisely to ensure legal certainty in the most serious cases and to prevent the murder of the judiciary, we believe that a reduction — or silage regime — is not as reassuring as a treatment in law enforcement. The minority in the criminal trial committee showed, among other things: that it is not sufficient or satisfactory for a retest of the guilt issue to be based on written proceedings, contrary to the main proceedings. Such treatment will result in the total absence of principles that are otherwise of great importance as evidence — immediateness, verbality, counter-dictation in the form of witness interviewing and the participation of laymen. I would also like to point out that the main argument for introducing appeals in the most serious cases is time and resource use. Several representatives have discussed how the courts have experienced major budget cuts in recent years in the context of the red tape and efficiency reform. SV believes that instead of removing an important legal certainty guarantee on the basis of insufficient capacity in the courts, it should also ensure sufficient capacity for the courts. We respond to the fact that the government's solution to the labour pressure in the courts is to introduce increased access to recruitment. We're particularly concerned about what this is going to look like in the long term, when we know how long the different instances are now spending on dealing with issues. We're responding to the government's solution. The situation of the right of access to justice is, in principle, a problem of legal certainty, which will be further exacerbated by increased access to appeals. The majority believe that the burden in the courts must be resolved by increased appropriations to the courts, not by increased access to appeals. Therefore, SV supports the minority’s proposal in the criminal trial committee, which provides access to appeal in more cases than at present, but limits the claim to three years of imprisonment or conviction and a six-year penalty framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e641	The Government will facilitate the good and proper use of the resources of the courts, and the proposal that all anchors be subject to siling is in line with the objective of effective, legal and reliable criminal proceedings. The work of the Lawyers’ Lawyers in appeal proceedings should be concentrated on those cases where there is a reasonable opportunity for the appeal to be brought. It is not good use of resources to hold a full appeal procedure in cases where it is clear in advance that the outcome will remain the same as in the main proceedings. Since six reasons cannot be denied for appeal under current legislation, these cases involve a disproportionate proportion of the capacity of the law enforcement. This goes naturally enough at the expense of other things. The government believes that law enforcement rights should use their resources on the right issues, i.e.: criminal proceedings where appeal proceedings have added value in order to ensure legal certainty. Lawyers’ rights and prosecution authorities are currently facing capacity challenges. The government’s legislative proposals will increase capacity and contribute to reducing the length of proceedings. Effective and law-enforcement criminal proceedings require that implementation does not take too long. The proposal will also reduce the burden on stakeholders. In particular, there is an advantage for insults to be spared for a demanding appeal in cases where the conditions for refusing the appeal have been met. This is in short the background to the government wanting to abolish the unconditional right of conviction to ordinary appeals for criminal offences with criminal penalties of more than six years in prison. The proposal is also consistent with the majority of the Criminal Procedures Committee, which received support from most hearing bodies during the consultation round. I have noticed that the majority of the Judicial Committee is questioning whether the changes will prove to be resource-saving. It's pessimistic. It is not by chance that all the State lawyers and almost all of the law-enforcement courts support the proposal. Although it is difficult to estimate the number of six reasons that will be rejected, it is likely that the savings associated with fewer appeal negotiations will be significantly higher than the costs associated with anchoring being the subject of appeal. It has also been claimed that the legal security aspect has not been adequately addressed. I do not agree with that. The proposal is, in effect, aimed at extending the scope of a well-functioning and trusting incorporated scheme. The Norwegian silage system has been set up in a safe and sound manner. First, the threshold is high to refuse an appeal. All three judges must feel that it is clear that the appeal cannot be made. Second, it is necessary to provide a justification to show that the Lawyers' Court has carried out a real review of the judgment of the Court of First Instance in the light of what is stated in the appeal. If the Lawyer’s right is unable to perform a proper examination of the appeal after written processing, e.g.: because of the complexity of the matter or the concrete evidence situation, the appeal shall always be referred to oral appeal proceedings. Thirdly, the decision of appeal may be appealed to the Supreme Court. I note that the majority of the Committee, like the minority in the Criminal Procedures Committee, believes that there should be a requirement for three years of imprisonment – allegedly or sentenced – in order to have an unconditional right to appeal. However, with such a rule, time and resources will still have to be used to conduct appeal negotiations on issues where the outcome is obvious. I believe that if the silage regime is first considered to be legally sound, which I believe it is, it should apply irrespective of the criminal penalties and the penalty that has been claimed or imposed. The Government also proposes to legislate a time limit for a letter of support for appeal against criminal convictions. This too has been well received in the consultation rounds and will contribute to a more efficient process. I am therefore pleased that the minority of the Committee, represented at the Right and the Advance Party, are behind the government's proposal. If the bill is adopted today, there will be a step in the right direction towards more effective and secure criminal proceedings where the resources of the courts are used where they are most needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e673	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e678	If sound and video recordings had been in place in all courts in Norway, does the Council of State – as I do – believe that the kind of documentation we had received would have limited the number of anchors?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e683	There's no connection between these things. Most of the things you hope to meet with this law change typically concern matters where you have a pretty good image of evidence. This could be done, for example, by: are about a drug seizures, and there are discussions about the extent of the drug seizures, or what should really be the punishment measurement. For that reason, many things are denied without any new evidence or the kind of thing being done. What is needed to ensure evidence in court is that you can't change the explanation of the court until you get to the law. If you do that, you can go back and see what you said in the District Court. That, I think, has little to do with the changes that are being proposed here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e689	I thank you for your answer. The criminal law selection was divided into two. Does the Council of State see any fundamental counter-argument against doing what a proposal proposes today, or is it both principleal and rational – in terms of economics – fundamentals that underlie?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e694	I think the majority of the sample has come up with a pretty good assessment in this case. There are always difficult assessments, because this is a question of legal certainty and careful assessments are to be made. I believe that the sample has absolutely done so. But within the jeez you often disagree. There is disagreement about where you want to go, and there is disagreement about how things should be in order to ensure legal certainty in the best possible way. I believe that this proposal is a reassuring way to do it, because you have a very high threshold in order to say that this matter will clearly not be brought before the law of the team. It must also be borne in mind that all three judges must agree on this, and there is little reason to make a new case. It is a rather comprehensive process to have a completely new legal case. When it is then clear that the anchor in any case will not show up, we do not see the intention to implement it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e699	Just to clarify: Case President Peter Frölich was very clear in his speech that this is about capacity, and that it is a good idea because there are great challenges to the capacity of Norwegian courts. Does that mean that this is a signal that a person does it because it wants to save money, and because the government doesn't intend to give much more money to the courts in the years to come?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e704	I think I have a slightly different mentality than the representative of Awake! because I've been working in the private business, and there you're busy saving money anyway, as long as it has a good purpose and doesn't go beyond anyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e709	The economic situation of the Courts has been problematic for a long time. Last year, the Association of Lawyers and Lawyers warned that there was far too much resources in the courts. Norway’s human rights institution has pointed out in its annual report that the resources of the courts are important to ensure the independence of the courts and that there is something the government needs to be aware of. And then comes this new proposal on recruitment, which was presented by the minority in the Justice Committee, which is really a proposal primarily to save resources. Then my question is: does the Council of State think that the courts will need more resources even if this is agreed?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e716	What the representative is now dealing with is something much more about just this proposal. A court committee of its own has been set up to look at both the culture and the content of the courts in the future, because it is clear that the courts are going to undergo quite major changes. There have already been audio and video recordings in the courts, which the government has worked to get, and on which a trial project has been started. It's a huge digitisation of the courts, and it's going to continue in the future, so there's a lot going on on the court side. But I believe that a proposal that will save the courts up to 30 million dollars. kr per year, a good proposal is independent of whether the resource situation is scarce or not. This is a proposal that should be adopted regardless of whether the courts had had profits — or what to call it — of resources. Because we believe that this will not lead to a weakening of legal certainty, and then I see no reason not to save money, when it will not lead to a weakening of legal certainty.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e723	It has been promised that you are concerned that the parties to the serious cases will use a lot more resources now to promote an appeal, because you can risk the case being rejected, even in the six-causes. In addition, it is pointed out that the documents given to the appeal committee do not necessarily give a complete picture of the case; it is a simplified picture; it is largely police documents that can have a colored view. And then I wonder, what is the Council of State's assessment of it? Does he have any idea that there is a risk that the parties will have greater costs? And does the Council of State think that the appeal committee will have a good and complete basis for decision-making guilt issues in the serious and complex cases as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e730	The system of appeals is quite well established in Norwegian law already, and now we are going to extend it to all cases in the criminal field. The courts have a long experience in assessing whether the case has been well informed in the main proceedings. But if a lawyer, a defender, invokes new evidence or refers to ambiguities in the previous court, etc., it is precisely such things that will often lead the courts to say that here it is not clear that this anchor will not bring forward. And then you have to refer them to oral debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e737	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e744	The centre party is committed to facilitating a reasonable use of resources in the courts. It is a point that there was an abuse of the appeal mechanism with today's right to appeal without any conditions. The inclusion of fewer appeals will mean less use of resources in courts, as has been said here now, but efficiency must also be balanced against legal certainty. It is proposed by the government to tighten access to appeal for the most serious criminal cases, and it must be pointed out that Norway’s anchoring is already much larger than in the other Nordic countries. For example, in Sweden, all appeals from the court area are dropped into treatment. The centre party believes that the silage arrangement does not provide as good a guarantee of legal certainty as a full appeal in the law, and it is not satisfactory that a renewed treatment of the debt issue is carried out by three tradesmen after written treatment. With such treatment, as evidence in the form of a witness interview and the participation of children, the principle may be totally absent. The centre party believes that suspects in the most serious criminal cases should be able to try their case with full main negotiation in two instances. But we can agree that an appeal test without conditions can be reserved for the cases where it has been claimed or sentenced to three years imprisonment. Finally, I would like to say that the courts are under a heavy pressure from work and the amount of proceedings and proceedings are increasing due to repeated budget cuts, and there are also several complex issues that follow from it. The majority have set deadlines for dealing with cases in the courts, but today almost half of the courts of law break these deadlines. The centre party is concerned that missing resources can force the courts to prioritize matters according to their capacity to handle them. Although this is not a factual matter in connection with appeals, I nevertheless believe that the financial framework of the courts will have a bearing on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e757	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e773	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e782	I would like to thank the Committee for a thorough work on the recommendation for Prop. 68 L for 2018-2019. The change involves a new residence permit in the Foreigners’ Act which has been refused protection and which has not been granted a humanitarian residence permit. As a result of these changes, the government also proposes an amendment to the law to maintain access to temporary work permits. Incurries are also proposed in Sections 32 and 42 of the Foreign Affairs Act. In order to address the issue of expulsion in cases where an application for protection is rejected by the Directorate of Foreign Affairs and the Department of Foreign Affairs, a number of assessments have to be made today before such an additional decision on expulsion can be taken. Therefore, there is reason to amend the rules in order to avoid spending time in all asylum cases on assessments which are not relevant to the issue of protection and which are generally of limited importance, in view of the few cases in which expulsion under the rules is actually required. The proposal is intended to simplify and streamline the procedure in asylum matters. This is important not only for economics and administration, but also for those people who are waiting for a clarification of their application. I would like to point out that the proposal was supported by Amnesty International, the Association of Lawyers, the NOAS, the Directorate of Foreign Affairs, the Foreign Affairs Department and the Directorate of Police when the Ministry had the proposal at the hearing. Current rules, which make it inappropriate for time to be spent in all asylum cases on assessments not relevant to the issue of protection. The proposed amendment would result in fewer assessments of issues that are not relevant to the asylum procedure itself. This will simplify and thus streamline the procedure. Most of the additional decisions on expulsion were taken today in matters relating to protection under Section 32 of the Foreign Affairs Act, i.e. Dublin cases. These are complicated by today’s rules on expulsion as an additional decision. Furthermore, it is important to stress that simplified legislation can make the procedure more effective, compared with today. This means that less time per case will be spent, time that can be used to deal with several similar cases during the same period. This will lead to better use of resources in the management of non-residents.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e801	It is a side effect of this proposal that SV has put forward an alternative proposal, and I will address that proposal immediately. It's all about the fact that when we discuss otherwise, people are essentially going to take care of themselves – as far as it goes – with honest, decent work, everyone is very interested in it. But in this case, you have chosen to tighten up the possibility that someone could do so. We do not think there are any good reasons for that, nor did we hear anyone being presented in the statements made by the rapporteur. Thus, the possibility of a temporary work permit — from three to six months — is restricted while the application is pending. This will help many more to remain passive. For those who want to stay and have had the opportunity to work, it must be very positive – both for individuals and for society – that they can actually get to work and try to support themselves. It's everybody else talking really hot about it. So it's very strange that in this case you have chosen to restrict these possibilities, instead of looking at how to expand them. SV has suggested it before, because we really believe that it would have been much better that people had the opportunity to work legally and depend on the sea, as much as possible. We know that many people who do not have the opportunity to do it are easy to tempt into black work. We also know that people who have a job to go to basically manage their everyday life much better than everyone else. What is the reason why this time you have chosen to extend the period some people are not allowed to have a temporary job, we have no good explanation for. It seems that you have now used a case where you have a broad consensus on the main part of the proposal, to tighten up further on this point. SV promotes a proposal that at this point we should keep the law as it is today, that it should read ‘three months’ and not ‘six months’. Now the arrivals of asylum are low. It involves shorter time-limits of procedure. However, a three-month residence requirement will allow some more to work. That means SV is a good thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e814	The representative, Karin Andersen, has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e819	Bill 68 L, presented to the Stortinget today, contains proposals for amendments to the Foreign Affairs Act. The changes are, to a large extent, a simplification of legislation, with the result that the overall time-use of asylum decision-making can be somewhat reduced. In my opinion, this will lead to a better use of resources in the foreign administration. When the foreign authorities today reject an application for protection, an additional decision on expulsion is usually taken or an additional registration is made that the foreigner has to leave Norway. A refusal decision is an administrative response which requires the foreign citizen to leave the country or to be refused entry. However, the expulsion decision does not prohibit future entry and the person may return to Norway at any time provided that the grounds for refusal no longer exist. No rejection decision is necessary in order to implement a refusal of protection. However, expulsion decisions are necessary for the immediate implementation of a negative decision if the foreigner has another valid temporary residence basis in Norway, such as: a visa. It is also necessary when the applicant has already received protection in another country participating in Dublin cooperation. The non-resident authorities have indicated the need to simplify and streamline the rules on expulsion in the context of refusal of protection applications. Under current legislation, a number of assessments have to be made if such an additional expulsion decision is to be taken, such as whether or not he/she had valid travel documents on arrival in Norway, assumed residence before the adoption of the decisions, and the purpose of the stay here. The assessment to be made in relation to the expulsion decision in these cases has nothing to do with protection issues. Therefore, I do not consider it appropriate to spend a lot of time on these additional assessments in all these asylum cases and propose an authorisation for rejection of the application for protection under Section 17 of the Foreign Affairs Act. And, as we have also heard, this has got quite broad approval from the hearing bodies. As a consequence of the proposed simplification, there is a need to amend the provisions of the Foreign Affairs Act that regulate the possibility of temporary work and work permit pending the examination of the application for protection, in order to maintain this possibility. The amendment implies that, provided that other conditions are also met, temporary work permits may be granted if the expulsion decision is unlikely to be effective before the applicant has been in Norway for six months. I have chosen to set the residence time to six months, so that the time limit in the provision should have a practical reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e834	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e839	My question is just about the latest change, as the Council of State said would be a ‘practical reality’. I probably miss a good reason anyway, sail if this might apply to very few people. What is the political assessment of making it more difficult for someone who could have worked, to provide for themselves with honest, self-employment?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e844	So these are people who are not going to stay in Norway, who obviously don't need protection in Norway, and I don't see any reason why we're going to make it easier for them to stay in Norway and work in Norway with a full work permit. I would like to be reserved for those matters where it is likely that it will be longer before the foreigner has completed their residence permit in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e849	The question is, what is longer? Because here it is not a principle position that in such cases you should not be allowed to work at all because you assume that you are not allowed to stay. Here's just a question of what kind of deadline to set. What is the reason why a time limit is now set so that fewer people who could have depended on their own work will have the opportunity to do so?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e855	So if you have a longer deadline, more people will also see that it might make sense to go home on a voluntary basis. In those cases where it takes longer to clarify the asylum case, and where it takes longer to return the foreigner – yes, it makes more sense that you actually get the opportunity to work, and therefore we have set the six-month time limit instead of three months.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e860	I very much disagree with the reasoning that is being put forward now, because the point here is: Is it not reasonable that those who live in Norway have the opportunity to depend on their seas, whether they are to be here for three months or six months, that in that period they have the opportunity to contribute to society and not be dependent on receiving benefits, which they will receive in many of these cases? I do not understand the political signal sent out in this matter. Now, as the Council of State says, it's kind of part of scaring, so here it's hard to be, while you could put yourself on a line where the people who are here actually contribute to society while they're here. Have I understood correctly that this is part of the scare-wake policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e865	I think the disagreement here is due to a fundamental disagreement about immigration. If you make it too easy to work in Norway, there will be a pull factor that will allow more people to travel to Norway in the hope that they will be able to work, for example. Half a year e.g., because pay levels in Norway are quite different from very many other places both in Europe and in the rest of the world, and that effect is not desired. We want to use the institution of asylum as a protection for those who need it and for those who do not receive protection to be released as soon as possible. In that case, it is not appropriate to facilitate working if the case takes less than six months before the return is completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e870	Then the line chord change is over. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e888	At the request of the Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that – within the allocated speaking time – up to five rows of replies are given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e897	First, I want to start by thanking the Committee for a good cooperation. The case concerns an SV representative proposal to make changes to the social housing policy. The draft representative presented seven different proposals and the proposals were substantially promoted in the vote. I leave it up to the proposers to explain the proposals in more detail. A good dwelling is a fundamental asset of well-being. A safe and good housing gives us better health, better quality of life and good conditions for success in work and education. Fortunately, most of us manage to get a good home on our own, whether it's through buying a good home or renting a good one. Many of those who rent, want to do just that, and most people who rent, do it completely without the help of the public. But we need a powerful social housing policy to help those who can't get and keep a good home on their own. Here this government is already doing good work. The number of residents is now at the lowest level since we started measuring. The latest measurement from 2016 shows that we have less than 4000 homeless people in Norway. That's good, but we're not satisfied with it, and the work to get that number down, has to go on. Housing aid is also an important social means of housing. With the Right in government, we have strengthened the housing support. It's focused, so large families of children get more. You get housing based on up-to-date equations, and we've increased boute poisons several times. The result now is that those who get housing support get more. Those receiving housing support are also covered by a stable proportion of their boute poisons. Starting loans are also an important measure to ensure that more people go from renting to owning. Last year, the municipalities, through the Husbank, provided start-up loans at a record level. Over the last three years, almost 12,000 households have gone from a lease to a owner-occupied dwelling through a start-up loan. But housing social policy, although good today, needs to change as society changes. So I am glad that yesterday the government announced that it will deliver a big message on housing social work. I look forward to working on that further. The Socialist Left Party calls for state overmanagement of tasks for which the municipalities already take a great responsibility on their own, and solves them on their own. Municipalities must help to provide housing for all those who need it. It is also the municipalities that decide the rental price level on their own. I trust that the municipalities will ensure that those who need a good housing get it, and take care of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e914	A place to live at an affordable price is crucial to being able to live a life of independence and good living. The working party believes that as many as possible should be able to own their own housing and that it should be of good quality. It is an important political task to facilitate the construction of adequate housing. The dwelling shall be a place to live, not a speculation object. The difference between owning and renting is becoming one of the inequalities in society. The people who can afford it buy themselves a place earlier than before, and we now see that the BSU is a good arrangement for those who have good finances and money left over. At the same time, the initial start-ups are getting older. Fewer persons receiving housing support own the owner-occupiers. This is what we politicians have to take for granted. Once again, the government reduced the lending framework for the Husbank in its budget for 2019. With that, the government weakened the House Bank as a housing policy tool. We do not support a reduction of the House Bank, and believe it is necessary to increase the framework in the House Bank. We did that with $9 billion. kr in our alternative budget. We increased the loan framework to 25 billion. kr. The loan framework shall include, inter alia: to provide more young people with good prospects of start-up loans. When should the government realize that housing policy must be more than an instrument for the disadvantaged? We will provide municipalities with more tools to build good quality housing for everyone. Municipalities must be given the opportunity to give people new roads into the housing market. The government is too passive on this issue. Look what the City Council has proposed in Oslo. Now we have to give the tools Oslo needs, just to give more opportunities to go from renting to owning a dwelling. The government should then strengthen the toolbox for the House Bank rather than weaken it. Then the government should dare to think again, and help support the actors who can go in and help those who need an extra push to get their first home, for example. by extending the start-up facility, e.g.: by introducing some sampling schemes, in which the public may enter as part-owner of a dwelling by up to 15 pst. of the purchase price, e.g. by ensuring that the grant schemes through the Husbank are strengthened in order to realise several rental-to-owner models – a proposal we are going to vote for today in the Chamber. Or the government could strengthen the municipal economy and thus give the municipalities bigger muscles to realize the dream of owner-occupied housing for more people. With this, I address what the Labour Party proposal has with the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e925	The representative Siri Gassemyr Staalese has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e931	The centre party considers housing to be a fundamental asset of well-being in line with work and education. A safe and stable housing situation is a necessary framework for all human lives. The importance of housing policy for well-being and development needs to be raised and strengthened. It is a goal for the Centre Party to be able to own as much as possible its own home. It is also necessary to ensure the proper functioning of rental markets for those who have been best served in renting accommodation for shorter or longer periods. The situation of young people entering the housing market has become more difficult. The centre batch considers that more action is needed to improve the situation of initial start-ups. It is also a major challenge for many disadvantaged people and those with special needs to lack housing. The number of homeless persons should be reduced. It is therefore necessary to provide solutions to enable young people, first-time start-ups and disadvantaged people to purchase their own housing. At the same time, it is necessary to ensure that changes in schemes and regulations do not lead to a further increase in the level of prices in the housing market or a further increase in the level of indebtedness in Norwegian households. It's already a high level today. There are different challenges in the housing market in different parts of the country. The schemes must be able to help more people enter the housing market throughout the country, whether they want to live in a district or in a press area. The centre party believes that a lot of good work is done in the municipalities to secure housing for the homeless and other disadvantaged people who cannot find housing for themselves. This work needs to be strengthened, and municipalities must be able to help those who need it. The best way to take care of it is to strengthen the local economy. The centre party believes that predictability around rental prices is important. Individuals are hit hard when prices are turned up very much over a short period of time. It is important that, from the municipal level, predictability of housing policy is sought, so that those living in municipal housing have the security of their own housing situation. However, there are challenges for the municipality if they subsidise municipal housing by taking lower prices than those on the rest of the housing market. As a result, the costs associated with the housing offer do not appear in the municipal budget and the municipality will not be able to cover the real costs of the housing offer. In addition, general subsidisation will not be tested and not necessarily accurate. It is important that the financial instruments on the housing market are targeted. Therefore, the housing aid scheme must be strengthened, not weakened. The Centre Party wishes to ensure that grant schemes are strengthened through the Husbank and that several rental-to-owner models are implemented. Therefore, we support the proposal to amend the starting loan regulation from the House Bank so that applicants who are young and first-time start-ups with payment capability, but without equity, can be included in the target group to receive start-up loans. Finally, I would like to address the proposals No. 2 and 3 from the Center Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e950	Then the representative Heidi Greni has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e955	There is a need to strengthen social housing policy strongly, and there is a need to strengthen housing policy strongly and to use the House Bank as an instrument for a well-functioning housing market. In Norway, there is almost one market, and there is a market price whether it is rental or ownership. It's said that too many people don't work that way. In this proposal, we have promoted a number of changes to strengthen social housing policy through the Husbank. It's rent-to-own, which many people talk about. It also applies – at the latest in the revised version – to cut the subsidy schemes because few municipalities use it. What do we do to get more municipalities to use schemes for which there is actually a great need? We have previously made proposals to open up young people who have a job, who do not necessarily have a very high level of education, and who do not have the parent bank in order – the one who runs the bus, the one who works as a care worker or kindergarten assistant, and who has the ability to pay, but not the parent bank in order. They should be given the absolute opportunity to enter the own market with all the economic benefits in it. But that's not what the government wants. We have also seen on the basis of enquiries from the Norwegian Association for Devolved People that very many places are the rentals in municipal care homes and municipal social housing too high. There have also been examples of this in Oslo that have shown that with the law that gives the municipalities the right to take rent, you end up with a level of rent that is completely impossible for these people, because this is where the income is given. If you, for example, If you are young, you have paid approximately NOK 19 000. And when municipalities like Hadsel take NOK 15 000 per month in rent, Sortland takes NOK 14 000 per month, and Bodø, Stavanger and Trondheim take NOK 13 000 per month, it goes without saying that this does not work. What in the world is the point that municipalities should be able to take such rentals in dwellings for example. disadvantaged and disadvantaged, where the income has been provided? The development of housing support has made it too much use to get state housing. This means that these are people who are lean poor and who the municipality otherwise has to supplement with social assistance in order to afford to live. There have even been ugly cases in which there has been a eviction against such people. What SV wants is to provide security for disadvantaged people in their housing situation. That is what our proposals are about, and I take up the suggestions that SV has on its own.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e968	The representative Karin Andersen then drew up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e973	There is a so-called nurse index. It shows how many dwellings, or the proportion of dwellings, a lone nurse can afford in a particular city. In Oslo, that index is now 5 pst. That means that if you're a lone nurse, you can afford that income to buy 5 pst. of the dwellings in the market, 95 pst. You can just forget, 'cause you can't afford it. This is because we have a complete lack of housing policy in Norway. Unlike other civilised countries, a purely commercial market has been abandoned, while in countries such as Switzerland, Austria, Germany and Denmark, they also have an offer alongside the commercial market, which is price-regulated and of good quality, and which ensures that ordinary workers can afford to live in the city in which they also work. Unfortunately, in Norway, not least here in Oslo, where prices in the commercial market are much higher than the low-paid worker can afford. So the lack of housing policy creates a price wall that blocks many people from living in the city they also work in, if it's a big city. In other words, a housing policy is needed in Norway, and the SV suggests a good and prudent start to a fairer housing policy. Red will, of course, support the proposals that lie here, but we do not understand why we should not go a little bit more clearly to work and carefully limit the benefits of municipal housing. That's what we're talking about, we're going to be banned. We see the municipal farms in Oslo, among others. on the Sagens, used as a dairy cow for the City Council. They take millions, hundreds of millions, out of homes, from people who have bad advice, and use all sorts of strange things – in several municipalities. We saw that this was Oslo's hidden property tax as long as the Right Rule ruled, i.e. a tax on the poorest in Oslo. They took billions of dollars from these people for their prestigious projects. Unfortunately, this has not been sufficiently reduced by the new City Council. The size should decide that the type of dividends, the type of taxation of the poorest in society, shall be prohibited. Then we can rather let those who have good advice pay the Monner, as one now does in Oslo with a fair property tax, which the Right is against. We are for that, but the treasure from the poor is going to go away. With that, I take up Red's proposal in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e982	Then the representative Björn Moxnes has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e988	The government's objective is that everyone should be able to obtain and maintain a suitable dwelling. In the Granavolden platform, we are clear that we need to strengthen housing social work. But I believe that the solution is not in the over-management and detailed management of the municipalities. Municipalities shall help persons who are not themselves able to take care of their own interests in the housing market to obtain suitable housing. The house bank can contribute to the financing of both loans and grants to municipalities wishing to provide rental housing for disadvantaged people. Like other parties – all outside SV – I can't see that there is any need for changes in this area. Most municipalities work specifically and well in this important area. The financial instruments on the housing market must be as targeted as possible to those who need it and not to the housing. General subsidisation through low rent is not targeted. Instead, we must have arrangements such as: housing aid, which helps those who do not have high enough income to pay the entire rent themselves. Several of the changes proposed by SV also affect municipal autonomy. The principle that self-government should not be restricted more than is necessary is laid down in the new municipal law which immediately enters into force. I believe that local politicians are as well fit to make important priorities as what we are in the departments and at the Stortinget in Oslo. The ownership line is strongly anchored in Norwegian policy. The government will facilitate as many as possible of those who want it to be able to own their own housing. Many people have good assumptions about owning a dwelling. The losses on initial loans are small, and there is a great potential for helping more disadvantaged people. It is then important that municipalities use the means at their disposal and apply for start-up loans and grants for establishment. Many municipalities are very good at this and have helped many of their inhabitants into the owner-occupiers. In the revised national budget for 2019, we have proposed 110 million. kr additional to grants for establishment to help several families of children from rented to owned dwellings. About 450 disadvantaged households will be able to do so in their own owner-occupied housing. The initial loan shall be a complement to the ordinary credit market, not a competitor. For example, the start-up loan must be: not be granted to a newly trained person who, for a short period of time, does not receive a regular loan because of requirements of the Housing Loan Regulation. It would be to undermine the intention of this regulation. The development also confirms that more and more young people own their own homes. In 2004, 34 p.m. between 25 and 30 years old, according to the SSB. In 2016, the share was 42 pst. The social housing policy shall address those who need it as mentioned. Yesterday I announced that the government is now working on a new big message on housing social policy, and I look forward to presenting this message to the Stortinget hopefully next year and then invite the Stortinget to a wide and important debate on the tools to strengthen the Norwegian housing model.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1009	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1014	The government is still saying that it is a goal that as many as possible should be able to own the owner-occupiers, but it goes wrong for those who have the least to travel with. The number from the SSB shows that 76.8 pst. of the households in Norway owned their dwelling in 2018. It's a decline from 2015. Households with the lowest income owned 48 pst. the housing in 2018, also this a decrease from 2015. In almost all municipalities the owner over 90 pst. of households with high income the dwelling. Among households with the lowest income, the proportion varies from 25 to 70 pst. in the different municipalities. This shows that the government's housing policy objectives are achieved for the richest of us, while the weakest fall behind. Yesterday, the Council of State said that the government would reverse this development and launch a job with its first large-scale report on housing-social work. My question is then: why did it take so long for the government to come to the realization that the government has failed the disadvantaged, and that the inequalities in society are increasing?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1019	The reason for making a big message about housing social work is not that the government has failed. On the contrary, we see that this government has halved the number of homeless people because we have prioritised it. We see that the proportion of families with children who receive housing is greatly increased because we have prioritised it. So we see that the social work works. But, like in all other policy areas, we need to be open to discuss whether the use of tools is right, whether we are properly organised to reach the groups we want. As the representative referred to, there are some rather slight changes in the percentage of owner-occupied dwellings. It's like most people, over 80 p.m., own their own home in this country. That's good. But we have, among other things, in view of the refugee flows back in 2015, several families with low income. So we have to look at the mechanism. We need to discuss it widely. I look forward to traveling around and getting good input into the municipalities, who are working very well on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1026	That's good. But the question is, why has the government failed the weakest? It's absolutely right that 80 pst. owns the owner-occupancy, but only 48 pst. by the weaker, and the government has done nothing to give them the opportunity to own an owner-occupied dwelling.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1031	If someone has failed, it is probably those who did not take seriously the fact that there were 6,800 homeless people in 2012 when they were in government. That number is more than halved. But I am not satisfied, no one should be homeless in this country, and we must not give up until everyone has been offered a good and safe home. I believe that we have prioritised this work. It's important, but we have to be willing to discuss new ways of doing things. We know that, among other things: Oslo has introduced new tools, and I am excited to discuss with Oslo how the state can contribute through the tools and organisation we have through the House Bank. Is it the right one in 2019 or are we going to make changes? I'm completely open to it because I'm busy with the goal, that's that everyone should have a safe place to live.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1036	The local authorities have been given a limited space for action in the case of start-up loans, and the reason was that it was beyond the long-term difficulties. It's a problem that the Center Party takes seriously. That is why we have proposed a two-fold split of the scheme, because there are many municipalities that report that it is a major challenge that they have been deprived of the possibility of e.g.: using start-up loans for top finance for those who have income that allows them to operate the loan but who do not have the ability to save equity because there are not cheap enough dwellings in the market. Or it could be in a district municipality where the market value is lower than the construction costs, and where it is hopeless to get it fully financed because they lack that difference. The council said in its speech that local politicians are well as well fit to make these assessments as we do here in the house, and I fully agree with that. But how will local politicians be able to implement this once the government has deprived them of the only tool in the toolbox?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1043	I totally disagree with the premises. I perceive that starting loans are very flexible, they are used to a large extent by the municipalities, at the same time as the ordinary credit market, and that they are directed towards those who are in a persistently difficult financial position but who can serve a rent or a loan – but it is based on a different assessment. It is the whole point of the House Bank that it should be a complement to the ordinary credit market. So I'm experiencing a great deal of flexibility, but I'm completely open to discussing whether this can be done in an even better way than the one we're doing today. But so far I have not received any feedback on it. On the contrary, municipalities boast very much of how they can use the initial loan to groups that need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1050	In the past, a municipality was able to finance the difference between market value and construction costs in a district municipality by providing a start-up loan, so that some people really had the opportunity to establish themselves in that municipality. That tool has now disappeared, and I can't see that the municipalities have got other tools to replace it. Can the Council of State outline how the municipalities, for example, are doing? may assist in such a situation? It is not a question of permanent difficulties; it is simply a question of the fact that the market price in that area is such that the financing becomes demanding, because the day you put the key in the door, the housing value is actually lowered because the construction cost is higher than the market value.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1055	I think maybe we're discussing two different things. I may see that what Mr Greni is discussing is a district policy instrument for settlement. That's not what I discuss when I discuss start-up loans. It should focus on disadvantaged, persistently disadvantaged people in the housing market and help more people to own their own housing – which does not have equity, which does not have prospects for a higher income but which we can help with in the housing market. So it's not a regional policy instrument, it's an instrument against those who need it, who have low incomes, and who are in a difficult economic situation. It's completely independent of the market price you have in parts of District Norway, which is of course a challenge, but which I think has to be solved in other ways.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1060	I really hope that the Council of State will talk to some of those who have difficulties in the housing market, not only with the municipalities, when she is going to talk to people – including those who have very common low-paid jobs, who do not have parents who can set up with equity, and who are now being shut down from buying their own housing. It's not because they can't serve the loan, because they might have to pay more in rent than they would pay in loans, but because the government council is now continuing to pretend that if you open this up in the start-up loan scheme, it will go beyond the disadvantaged. That's not right. This can be done by extending the start-up loan scheme and sharing it in two and being willing to give priority to money, so that ordinary people with normal wages can also afford to enter the own market. That's what SV is proposing. Why does the Council of State not agree that those who have very common jobs should also have that opportunity?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1066	First, I want to say that I can assure the representative that I am not just busy talking to the municipalities. I'm at home with the disadvantaged, and I'm talking to the disadvantaged, just to get a recording of how we're going to work. The whole point is to take the disadvantaged seriously. They have the highest level of experience and competence in getting into the housing market, as well as how to work to get into the housing market. So that's what we're going to take with us. So it's like we introduced a mortgage regulation. It meant that part that has normal income does not have equity. What the representative wants is to change the Husbank. But then she undermines the whole point of the mortgage regulation, because this group received previous loans in the ordinary credit market. Now they don't. A lot can be discussed in connection with the Housing Loan Regulation, but it helps to dampen prices in the market, and that is good, especially for first-time buyers. And it also helps people not to take on more debt than they should.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1073	Replicate cord shift complete. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1080	I usually have my function as elected to the Old Oslo district. There we notice very well how cuts in state housing and cuts in other social benefits affect the poorest people in Oslo. In 2017, when the first cuts of state housing began to work, we noticed it in my part of town. We had to pay more and more in economic social assistance to more people, and that is something that limits our already limited urban economy. When the government cuts in housing support, it's not only the most disadvantaged people who notice it on the body, but also very many of their children notice it on the body. In my neighborhood we have school circuits that report that 20 pst. by their student mass, each school year moves due to housing conditions. I am happy now that the Oslo City Council has put forward a plan to strengthen the housing social work, but we need to have the government on hand to do this, because cutting in state housing is not something the Oslo Municipality can do with alone. We need to strengthen the tools for the House Bank, so that fewer people feel they need to move because they cannot afford to live where all their friends live – where they have their network. That's how we counteract alienation. There are very few of the homes that are built in my part of the city now, that a newly educated social worker or nurse can afford. We need politicians to realize that they actually have power and influence and can use some incentives to counteract this development, so that we have room for everyone in our municipalities, not just those who can afford to pay the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1089	It falls on its own unreasonableness to claim that there is a lack of housing policy today. On the contrary, Norway has one of the best functioning housing markets in the world. 80 pst. we also live in a home you own, and most people manage to do it on their own. Over 40 pst. of those aged between 25 and 30, owning their own dwelling. There is a higher proportion of young people in Norway than in the whole of Switzerland. You shouldn't think that when you hear the opposition talk about housing policy. The number of homeless people is also record low. There were over 6,000 homeless people in 2012. In 2016 we were down to 4,000. As I said, this is not good enough, but at least it is a significant improvement. Only this year, housing aid has also been increased by over 120 million for families with children. kr. We prioritise several rental-to-own projects. To claim that it is not to have a housing social policy, or not to have a housing policy, falls also on its own unfairness. The aim cannot be to embrace a housing social policy as much as possible, which the opposition seems to have a dream about. Rather, the aim must be to minimise the dependence on public assistance to get into the housing market. That is precisely the difference between the red-green housing policy and the government's housing policy. We also see that there is a lack of priority from the red-green when you look at housing support, and you also see it when it comes to starting loans. When the Red-Greens call for young people to have the opportunity to start loans through the House Bank, there is also a call for increased debt, a call for circumvention of the Housing Loan Regulation, and a call for increased housing prices. As interest rates rise, we risk that many people will have to raise more loans than they can serve. The result will be more expensive housing, poorer economy and a higher threshold for entering the housing market. It's an honest priority if that's what the red-greens want to achieve with their housing policies, but for the Right and for the government parties, it's all very important that most people have the opportunity to own their own homes and live on their own. We do that by making it faster, easier and cheaper to build a dwelling.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1104	It's just most people who are now being cut off from the start-up loan scheme, those who have very common jobs, and who are going to spend years of their lives paying more in rent than they could have paid down on their own mortgage. I can't understand why it's a point to shut low-paid people out of being able to own their own home, which has huge advantages in Norway. What we borrow on our own home, we have tax deductions on, so if I borrow my paid-up home and buy a new, nice car, everyone should be there and sponsor it. We are not talking about start-up loans, about subsidies either. It's a loan that has to be repaid. We've had the arrangement before. It worked well. It is entirely possible to spend more money on the House Bank, so that you can help even more disadvantaged people. It's just that the government doesn't choose that. The government has chosen to sponsor those who are heirs. If you inherit, or if you have the parent bank in order, which can put the prop on the table for you, that's fine. But those who don't have it won't get help. So to the story of housing. I have an annual report from the House Bank for 2018 in front of me. There's the numbers ringing clear. The housing allowance paid has increased by 350 kroner since 2014 to those who get it. But at the same time, the average bout has increased by NOK 1 114, and the income of the people who receive has been reduced by NOK 420 per month. So there's a negative in the accounts of $1184. These are the ones that get. But now there have been so little adjustments to these income limits that more and more falls outside. They go right across the border, and then the government says, oh, they've got more income. Yes, they may have got a hundred more pieces of income and the bikes border, but they lose the little broom. It's no wonder that the differences are increasing. This also affects a lot of dissatisfied people. I have had meetings with parents with developmentally disabled children who come and cry because their children now get so high rent even in municipal homes that they can't afford to live there. They're insecure, and they say we can't die, because then our children can't survive anymore. So that's what the government thinks about moving on to the municipal social welfare. That's where it ends now. Now it is increasing dramatically in all municipalities, because the state has too poor social policies and too poor social housing policies, and because you don't want to help regulate it so that the municipalities have to have social housing with prices that disadvantaged people can pay.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1115	So once again, the right side shows that they're saturated as long as the ownership line of the richest is increased, while the fact that it's weakened for the disadvantaged is nothing to worry about. The inequalities are increasing, and the government doesn't even want to cover the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1120	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1136	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be up to six replies from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1145	The Veterinary Institute is an important professional body that produces much of the knowledge we need to exploit natural resources we are so lucky to have here in the country, in a sound and sustainable way. The presence of the veterinary institute throughout the country is particularly important because animal husbandry and fishing activities are located everywhere, in small and large places, both east and west and north and south. It is therefore gratifying that in its draft revised budget for 2019, the government proposes an allocation of 30 million. kr to maintain the regional presence of the Veterinary Institute in Tromsø, Harstad, Trondheim, Bergen and Sandnes as well as to build an autopsy room at the regional office in Tromsø. This shows that we have a government that takes both animal welfare, health and preparedness and district policies seriously, and delivers what is needed to maintain an important offer throughout the country. I could have actually concluded my speech with that, but as the rapporteur-in-Office, I must not least thank the Committee for its good cooperation and I should also like to make a comment on the minority's proposals, which are not adopted. It is simply because it opens wide doors. It is strange that the proposers who originally proposed to grant 20 million. kr to the Veterinary Institute in the revised budget, now asks questions in the form of comments on whether or not 30 million. kr is sufficient. The proposal was properly promoted before the government had submitted the revised budget and could thus have been timely, but the matter has now been resolved by the government. I therefore welcome a short debate, and I believe that not least the representatives of the northernmost states in the Committee are very pleased with what is being delivered in Tromsø. I just have to say briefly that the Veterinary Institute is given the necessary resources from the majority in this Chamber to continue its important work throughout the country, which was also the intention of the majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1154	Safe food and healthy animals are also essential for people’s health. More and more of the world’s developments indicate that the value of Norwegian food production and Norwegian animal husbandry will become increasingly important. That is why the debate on the Veterinary Institute is of primary importance for the future of food production, animal husbandry and preparedness in Norway. But, of course, it also has a very important dimension for all those who have worked in the Veterinary Institute in recent years and contributed to Norway’s better preparedness and both safe food and healthy animals. Therefore, it is good that there is more money in the revised national budget. It is true that the case-rapporteur was concerned that there are now extra millions, but the figure left by the representative of Skkelstad in his speech is that the means to possibly cover up the activity that was proposed may not now prove to be able to contribute to the maintenance of the jobs, the competence and the activity that is the objective of the proposal for a representative that we are discussing here today. It is important to note that the proposal initially has two parts. One goes on the money, and the money is just a tool to maintain the activity, skills and jobs in our country. And that's where we now have a big challenge, because it turns out, for example. As in Trondheim, that more people have already left, and thus competence has been lost and lost. Similarly, there is a problem that the representative of Skkelstad also skipped, with autopsy. If the autopsy is to work well, you have to have the opportunity to look at the whole animal. It's not certain that it's just part of the animal that's sick, it can be complex suffering that makes us have to have that competence and the ability to do good preventive work in several places in the country. It is not possible to send whole animals from Rogaland or North Norway to Ås. Many important questions remain unanswered. We demand that we continue to have the good competence around the country to achieve the goal that is the starting point for the debate: safe food, healthy animals and a preparedness that is important to the public. I address the proposal of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1169	The representative then drew up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1174	Sometimes things happen fast here in Stortinget. The Workers' Party's proposal was justified by concerns about changes in the decentralised structure of the Veterinary Institute, and the two governments made an additional allocation through a revised national budget of 20 million. kr. Of course, this government delivers – not only 20, but 30 million. kr has been proposed in the revised national budget. These 30 million. NOK 15 million has been proposed. kr for the construction of a new post-mortem hospital for the Veterinary Institute in Tromsø, in order to improve the possibilities of autopsy in North Norway. In addition, a proposal of 15 million is proposed. to strengthen the operation of the activities of the Veterinary Institute and to maintain and further develop the regional offices. For the right, it is important to establish that the Veterinary Institute plays an important role in professional preparedness and in knowledge of Norwegian animal health status. Proper preparedness and skills development to address threats to health to animals, fish and humans is an important task for the Veterinary Institute. That the Veterinary Institute takes this task seriously, I have also understood through the examination of this matter. They are also clearly at the forefront of the introduction of new technologies and of improving the efficiency of their operations in order to best manage their tasks. As most people said in the hearing on the matter, diagnostic methods are changing rapidly. In the past, when whole animals had to be obsessed, diagnostics can be done in different ways today. Either by molecular biological method or by histological cuts or by autopsy, I am confident that the scientific expert who is both at the Veterinary Institute and otherwise in regulatory design will do so in a way that ensures that we have safety around what is the main task of the Veterinary Institute, namely to ensure that health threats to animals, fish and humans are prevented. A clear signal has also been given through the additional allocation proposed by the revised national budget that the regional structure of the Veterinary Institute should be maintained and further developed.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1189	I would like to start by thanking the proposers and all those who have been involved in this matter – in Sandnes, in Trondheim, in Tromsø and otherwise in the country. Various trade unions, trade unions and even the State of Rogaland have been involved in this matter, and so has the county. I am absolutely sure that there is the commitment that has made this additional commitment in the revised budget come into place. It is important to stress that the transfer of the Veterinary Institute and the Veterinary College to Ås is a very important matter. Then I would like to thank the representatives of the Left and Christian People's Party, who, on the open ring in the committee, were able to find out in a glittering way that it was the Center Party that had provided for the reasonable decision. But it was not that way, when we got through this during the 2007-2008 ageing period, that we could imagine that in 2019 we were going to have a centralist government that would use this as a lever to build up the regional presence. Because even with this permission, it's 30 million. There is no doubt that the local or regional presence of the Veterinary Institute – in Tromsø, in Trondheim and in Sandnes – will be worse when this process is completed than before it starts. It has been a centralization. There's been a loss of supply. What is also special about this matter is that when we deal with the state budget for 2019, we were given no information that the budget we received for the Veterinary Institute was not sufficient to sustain the regional presence. I also note that during the hearing in the committee, the director of the Veterinary Institute said that further reductions might be needed. I think it is important to support the proposal that one should keep up the local presence and the local competence regionally to the Veterinary Institute – 30 million. kr says a little. This week, a letter came from the Veterinary Institute to the Food Authority saying something about where to send animals for autopsy. The main rule is that terrestrial samples are to be sent to Oslo, with a few exceptions. I'm glad to hear how the Council of State explains it. Is it the case that in the future, with few exceptions, terrestrial animals are to be sent to Oslo for autopsy? In that case, what is it that we have achieved in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1204	I also want to give all credit to all those who are fighting to stop the ceasefire around the country. In the north it has been a tremendous commitment at all levels, whether it has our universities, municipalities, people from reindeer and agriculture, etc. This has been important to us, the knowledge and the pressure they have shown. I will also give honor to the councillor Bollestad for her work here. We know, of course, that it is not as easy to come in as a newly elected state council and could hit the table with as much power as she has shown in this case. So all the credit for that – that one has actually come in with fresh budget money that has resolved in a difficult situation. In North Norway, this would have meant that for the first time since the war would not have had a readiness in this field. This was a center that was created just after the war, just to strengthen preparedness in the north. At a closure, one would have been turned back a long time, and at a time when the danger signal is greater than in a long time and is supposedly going to evolve in a negative direction – hopefully not, but presumably – at the time that comes. The Storting has said that the knowledge and preparedness that we have today decentralized should not be weakened, but strengthened. That means that the Storting has taken a decision on discussions that have been held in Veterinary Norway, to tell you this, on how to organise this. We want a decentralised organization of it. We believe it is important that knowledge and preparedness are spread around the country. Then the question that we all might have to ask ourselves is, have we created a problem in that one to finance Ås is freed from the principle of a decentralised structure? There was also something that came out quite well during the hearing that we carried out: that these changes, as we now see, were largely driven by economic issues. The professional foundations were weak, but the economic forces for closure were strong. I have also been informed that the Veterinary Institute has now sent a letter to all its users that autopsies should be sent to Oslo or Sandnes. I would also like to receive an answer from the Council of State: what does that mean? Does this mean that our decision is based on layers – or not?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1219	In the revised national budget in 2019, the government has proposed an increase of 30 million. kr to maintain the regional presence of the Veterinary Institute in Tromsø, Harstad, Trondheim, Bergen and Sandnes as well as the construction of a new autopsy room at the regional office in Tromsø. The Christian People's Party is pleased that this will strengthen the regional presence of the Veterinary Institute and that important professional environments in different parts of the country can be maintained. The government's going to add 10 million. kr more on the table than proposed by the proposers in Document 8:86 S for 2018-2019, which we now have to deal with. It is therefore a little strange that the proposers do not draw this proposal. The opposition notes that the 20 million were based on the communication of the need for savings and that the opposition will return to any additional needs related to the budgetary procedure for the autumn. If there's argument for not drawing the proposal, it's a little funny, since the opposition parties could do it anyway without making any suggestions first. Sometimes it is actually better just to admit that the government has settled the matter, than to continue with a rhetoric that in turn can create new uncertainties for the employees. The opposition notes that they will underline the uncertainty created by the cut process in the departments around the country. It is worth noting that the opposition itself has helped to create that uncertainty by trying to knock political coins on down-manning assumptions to an extent that has proved not to be the result. On several occasions, the Council of State has stated emphatically that the Veterinary Institute should continue to have regional presence and that regional offices should be further developed with country functions, management tasks, development opportunities and that they should be able to participate in regional research cooperation. The message has always been that new technologies and new methods require a continuous assessment of how concretely to address the challenges in a good way, and this allows one from time to time to be in need of a different type of competence from that of a previous one. However, it is essential that preparedness is maintained and that regional agencies are maintained and further developed. Therefore, there is reason to ask questions about the opposition's zeal to create uncertainty for the staff of the Veterinary Institute when there is no basis for doing so. Finally, I want to commend the Council of State for her commitment to this matter, for having put in place $30 million. NOK and for an exemplary solution to the matter after good dialogue with our government partners. In conclusion, I think it is rusty and real by the representative Knag Fylkesnes to give honor to the Council of State for well done work. We appreciate that in the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1230	Good animal health, good animal welfare and not least safe food and preparedness are important. Food surveillance is a central supervisory body which shall also be active in preparedness in this area. The Swedish Food Safety Authority works closely with the Veterinary Institute. The main function of the veterinary institute is to contribute to the ability to counter health threats to animals, fish and people. They conduct diagnostics, monitoring, risk assessment, advice and dissemination as well as research. The veterinary institute is a national and international reference laboratory. The veterinary institute will modernise and streamline operations. They want, among other things: redefine the work on disease surveillance. Why? Well, it's because the methods have changed. Sample collections will be more risk-based. Methods for making disease diagnostics are evolving steadily. The veterinary institute is involved in the development and adopts new diagnostic methods. Some methods require modern and expensive premises — not all, but some. They require advanced equipment and a high level of competence. The veterinary institute points out that parts of the laboratory activity, especially for terrestrial animals, are wise to collect in one place. That doesn't mean that the autopsy should be one place, but you have to take the most advanced analyses in one place, and then Ås, with his new laboratories, is best suited for it. The debate on a regional structure for the Veterinary Institute is becoming incredibly important. Having a decentralised structure that ensures research, advice and autopsy in Tromsø and Sandnes is becoming incredibly important – while being able to modernise and implement new methods to ensure good animal health and not least to be at the forefront of the new research. That's why it's important for me as the Council of State and for the government that we actually maintain and further develop the decentralised structure, while at the same time using Ås – with the challenges it also poses – because there's a lot of capacity and a lot of new technology, which means that we actually have to use it at the same time as we have a decentralised structure.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1241	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1247	I record that the state council did not mention Trondheim as important in regional structure. We know that the blue sector needs to be taken care of in Trøndelag, but the issue here is the green sector. District veterinarians, farmers and the Farmers are in despair. Important competence has disappeared. The employees have been cancelled or have resigned, and there is no match between what we read in the media and what has actually happened. Food security and animal welfare are weakened in Trøndelag. What does the Council of State think of this?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1254	I did not mention Trondheim in my post, but Trondheim, Bergen, Sandnes, Tromsø and Ås are central parts of the Veterinary Institute. Trondheim is that part of the Veterinary Institute which is no. 2 in the number of persons employed. The representative is quite right that the majority of them are in the blue sector. It has been said that in Trondheim you want to maintain veterinarians and researchers, but you want to change laboratory services, precisely because you want to use the laboratory at Ås to analyse with new methods. In fact, Ås is a prerequisite for the whole country to have the same possibilities for advanced analysis.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1259	Trøndelag is the largest region with livestock. All terrestrial animal competence has been effectively removed, and it is before the news of 30 million. kr is dropped. Trøndelag has become a balancing item and is out of competence. It has been said by several representatives that the regional structure must remain. Then my question is: Will the laboratory unit in Trøndelag be shut down – or how will this be resolved?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1264	It's internal to the Veterinary Institute to organise it as they think it's appropriate. What's important for Trøndelag and all herds, is that you're actually sure to get the veterinary services you need, that you have the skills you need, and that you get the tests you need, when you need them, and that you get the analysis you need, when you need it. It's going to be equal to the rest of the country. That's why we have a decentralised structure. In the case of veterinary services, each municipality is responsible for the veterinary service itself. The veterinary institute shall provide veterinary surgeons with both guidance and competence at the level at which they are at. And it's supposed to be a veterinary service at the Veterinary Institute in Trondheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1271	It has been said that regional presence should be strengthened, and I will follow up the situation in Central Norway. A circular, or letter, was issued from the Veterinary Institute to the Food Authority on 3 June, stating that samples from terrestrial animals should be sent to Oslo with a few exceptions and that animals for autopsy should be sent to Oslo or Sandnes. In addition, it is well that people have been laid off at the Department of the Veterinary Institute in Trondheim as a follow-up. Then my question is: how do the Council of State think that the regional presence of the Veterinary Institute in Central Norway has been strengthened by this process?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1276	First of all, even though the obituary is not maintained in Trondheim as the Veterinary Institute sees it as professionally correct, I believe that with the tests and the way we organize them, it should also be possible to do so in Central Norway. It was just supposed to be missing. It's the same way that an actually has an autopsy room in Tromsø. It is far from the east of Finnmark to Tromsø, but also the east of Finnmark is to be taken care of by Tromsø. It's the same way of thinking, the Veterinary Institute uses a decentralised structure, which the Stortinget has asked us to have.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1281	After threats of a violent centralization and weakening of the Veterinary Institute's regional presence, on May 8, we were able to get the news of that 30 million. kr i revised would ensure the maintenance of regional presence in Tromsø, Harstad, Trondheim, Bergen and Sandnes. Of course, as a team representative, I am particularly concerned about Trondheim, and in retrospect many questions have been asked about what really lies behind this decision, and what really remains. Is it true that what remains in the case of presence is about a mailbox address and a few employees, or are you actually going to maintain the regional presence? Can the Council of State guarantee that the regional presence in the Trendelag is not impaired, that the number of employees will not be significantly reduced and that the preparedness for infection in the Trøndelag will not be weakened by this decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1286	I want to start by saying that maintaining the decentralised structure is read and adopted. Maintaining also means maintaining quality which ensures that farmers, the food industry or whatever it may be, in Trøndelag and in the rest of the country, must have a decentralised structure. Then the question of maintaining is to do everything the same way as before. I've been working in health care and I know that's not the world. Neither is the world within the Veterinary Institute. If we're going to have the best tests, we have to have the best technologies, and then we have to develop every job. I expect that one to do both in Trondheim, in Harstad, in Tromsø, in Bergen, in Sandnes and in Ås. That's the prerequisite for us to have a veterinary institute that's more in the front than in the back and that ensures good animal welfare.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1291	My question was whether the Council of State could guarantee that the number of employees in Trondheim will not be significantly reduced, and that the regional presence will not be significantly reduced. I would like to repeat that question. Can we expect that the number of employees will be significantly reduced, or will we get a guarantee that it will be maintained?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1297	Point one: the Veterinary Institute's location is in Trondheim. It's not going to decrease. Point two: In terms of the number of employees, I thought the representative was concerned about the quality of this. I can never guarantee, when new methods come, how many employees there will be, but what I can say is that there should be qualitative good practices in central Norway that ensure a good veterinary institute, and good services for those who are going to use that service.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1302	What's been special about this case is that we have a veterinary institute that hasn't followed the leadership that the Storting has provided. It has also seen the government in a rather difficult situation, for example. The last fall, when at least two questions were asked about the decisions taken by the Stortinget that the decentralised structure should be strengthened. Then the government said yes, this is what it will work with. Then it turned out afterwards that the Veterinary Institute had been working on completely different types of plans, one of which was going to go away from the decentralised structure. That, I would say, is a rather unclear sense of role. A similar decision may or may not be adopted, but they must be followed anyway. But misinforming is a cardinal sin here in the house and can also open up for further control. How does the Council of State get to grips with the fact that the Veterinary Institute is conducting a different line from the one used by the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1312	First of all, when it was leaking that there were cuts in the various district units, I had a meeting with the Food Authority. I have been very clear that the Stortinge decision on decentralised structure must be taken into account. The size has a clear decision on that, and it is our responsibility to continue – it should be lacking. I also believe that it is important to have a decentralised structure that always allows for sampling, which provides the opportunity to maintain preparedness, and which can at the same time make use of one of the most modern units we will now get, at Ås, so that we ensure equality throughout the country. But the Veterinary Institute must follow the political decision on a decentralised structure, and I must follow that as the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1319	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1326	I have experience in the trades movement, and I have experience in how people react in environments where they feel unsafe in the future. The treatment of employees is incredibly important in all working environments and particularly important in an environment of competence such as the Veterinary Institute, in order to enable them to carry out a good and safe job and to concentrate on the tasks they are assigned to. The tasks of the veterinary institute are incredibly important for both animal health and food safety. Whether things become unforeseeable in a work environment, there is a rapid flow of skills. It is totally unsustainable if the government is not able to grant money through its budget appropriations, so that there are no situations in which signalled cancellations are saved through additional appropriations in the revised budget. The proximity of live animals and fish, the proximity of the farmer, the proximity of the smoker – all of this – is incredibly important. This proximity must be strengthened by the government building good relations with those employed and with those assigned to serve. The fact that the institution goes to redundancies and redundancies in the regional departments gives signals about how management values the work done there. The management justifies the redundancies in Sandnes that it is economically demanding to run the Veterinary Institute at Ås. It feels unfair to the employees of the regional departments and leads to further uncertainty and a weakening of trust between management and employees. We are now only hoped that employees will have confidence that the decision on regional presence will be maintained over time, and that the appropriations for future government budgets will be large enough to meet the needs. I believe – as the members of the Committee from the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre say – that organisational changes must be justified by real needs and not by lack of funding. Competence is an imminent danger when management acts in this way, and I expect the Council of State to clear up in these circumstances. There is too much uncertainty about the situation of regional centres.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1339	I had to take the floor when I heard the representative from Reten's post. It was mildly said a little special to listen to. I want to take a strong distance from the description he comes with, where he says that the opposition is dealing with political games. That's not true. There's a reason we're here, and the background is the dramatic cut-off proposals that would hit the whole of the regional offer – against decisions in Stortinget. It caused great unrest, it also aroused political commitment. That is also why we are dealing with this matter in the Chamber today. It was a challenge that the Council of State also failed to provide safeguards or insurance when the need for it arose in this case. It also created extra great commitment and uncertainty. That's why this case has been so strongly debated, because one is losing an offer that is vitally important very many places. That should also be acknowledged by the representative, Mr Reiten. It's part of the political work that makes us here now. Then I'll say I'm happy and that it's good that money has come on the table, it's good that one has cleaned up. But it hasn't come of itself. This happens because the pressure has been so great, because the opposition has also done the job, and many of the environments out there have pressured the government to do just that. So I also encourage the representative, Reiten, to take over the big discussion about why we have come into this situation. It is really not about political games, it is about bad political work. But now, fortunately, we can straighten it out, and I'm glad we have this discussion today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1350	I also see the need to redraw after the representative Reiten's posts. I understand that it can hurt to sit in a plural government, and I understand it can be bad to have an opposition when one sits with power. But that's democracy, and I think we're on fire with that. The representative, Reiten, said: political games make political coins to create insecurity for them to add. When I was at the Swedish Veterinary Institute in Sandnes, people with a cancellation notice were put in their hands. People have been laid off. And so you're going to have to pay for spreading insecurity. I don't think that's right here. I would like to recommend the representative of Reiten to contact the members of the Veterinary Institute in Sandnes, Trondheim and Tromsø and ask: Have they experienced in this process that representatives from the Center Party, the Workers' Party and SV have created uncertainty for future divers? I think the representative Reiten will get a shiny, clear no. I think they'll experience that the opposition party in this case has been fighting the Stortinget together with many other locals who have engaged. I think we should be a few that a democracy with a position and an opposition is a good thing for a country. And then I want to give credit to the Council of State for the $30 million. kr – of course. It would be a lot worse if it were zero. Then a question has to be asked whether this is enough to maintain the regional presence. In this process, there's one thing that I can't quite deal with. This starts with a need to finance removal costs and pension costs. So it's gradually gone over to that it's wise to do things in other ways. It may be that it would be wise to do things differently, but I think I have to do it in a completely different way, that one has to start with the reorganisation and not with the savings as a starting point. This is not a new cause for Stortinget. Also on 8 December 2015, there was a case for treatment in Stortinget about the regional presence in the north. And in connection with that, the Storting also said something about the level of the properties of autopsy. I expect the Council of State to take care, even after this reorganization, of keeping the characteristics of autopsy of animals at a level that makes it possible to maintain the number of autopsies at the level necessary to ensure animal health.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1373	What I think we can at least agree on is that good animal welfare is important, and not least that we have a well-functioning veterinary institute for both the blue and the green sectors. Local and regional presence is important, but when we move things, we must also have budgeted it, so that it is all right. It's not just a thought experiment, although it's only 3 miles – the big move that the Center Party got. The rest of us have had far more relocation than the Pollestad party, because it's not going to come from the fact that this was the big move to the Center Party, the big move that obviously wasn't cost-effective enough. So now we get the economically demanding piece that's been on the table with us. So what the Council of State says is that it's the quality that must always be the focus of what you actually get done, not necessarily how many heads, but what you get done in the regional offices. There are some strong words in this debate. It is not going to come from the fact that one in the motion for a resolution proposes about 20 million. kr, while the government and the Council of State deliver 30 million. kr. The representative Pollestad, who agrees with the Workers' Party, allows himself to be questioning as to whether the 30 million is enough, when he has so far been involved in saying that 20 million. kr is something he could support. Where is the logic – or the breach of logic – of the representative Pollestad? I agree with the Council when she says that this is not just about maintaining the services. For the government of which we are a part, it is also about further developing the services so that they are as adapted as possible to those who need them, and not necessarily to which the representative Pollestad is constantly engaged – to maintain it without further developing. For our part, it's all about developing further to get services better. But that might be a little bit of an unknown word for the representative. The drama of this -- no one says it's really great that the government delivers 10 million dollars. kr more than the representative proposal on the table. Only the representative of Knag Fylkesnes has given him the credit – it should have Knag Fylkesnes – while others choose to pretend that this is nothing.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1387	This is a good day. We will further develop the regional presence we have at the Veterinary Institute, even though the opposition thinks it is too small – despite the fact that they have proposed much less funding themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1390	The staff at the Veterinary Institute in Trondheim will follow this debate with great wonder. For Trondelag's part, the communication from the government parties is very special and certainly not in accordance with what is actually happening. We were shocked, said Linda Hofstad Helleland. She said to the Address Paper on March 27: "This is a victory for us." The Regional Office of Trondheim shall be maintained and only one post shall be cut at Tonga. Hofstad Helleland further said: ‘It is important that we retain the competence and presence in Trondheim. I am very pleased that Minister of Agriculture Olug Bollestad has been so clear that it is not appropriate to weaken the regional presence." One should be able to expect the government to argue openly and honestly about what they have demanded of the Veterinary Institute. This uncertainty and unforeseeability have weakened confidence and led to a flight of competences. The laboratory unit's employees at Trondheim have been cancelled, or they have resigned. The unit is shut down – while they have read several times that this has been taken care of. There is a significant and important competence that is gone and that does not come back. This can best be called double communication. Tree layers are the country's most livestock farms, so it's special. On 8 May I asked the Minister the following written questions: ‘How will the Minister of Agriculture and Food ensure that Norway’s largest livestock region, Trøndelag, will continue the animal sector of the green sector?’ The answer really upset me: ‘I am confident that the Management Board of the Institute will deal with this in a way that ensures both regional presence, efficient task management and the institution’s societal mission.’ But they are cancelled – zero willingness to provide presence, good food security and good animal welfare as a green sector in Norway’s largest livestock region. If I am wrong, at least the minority's proposal to continue today's professional environment and regional structure, so that one can continue autopsy as today, should be supported, so that there is a majority in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1425	This case has a prehistory, which the representative Pollestad so far had in mind in his first post, namely that it was the Stoltenberg II government that in its time decided to move both the Veterinary College and the Veterinary Institute to Ås. The internal processes of the government should not I go into more detail, they are described in detail in an article on research.no, which is so far interesting reading. But what is at least the case is that the government of Stoltenberg didn't have any control over what this would cost. That's the bill that we got on the table today, which we're now making sure we get a receipt.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1429	I also want to say that everyone registered the turmoil that occurred when there was a signal from the Veterinary Institute about cuts. The representative Pollestad fails to mention this is that Councillor Oluk V. Bollestad resolutely addressed that matter from day one and cleared up all the uncertainties of the road. It's part of the story here, and that's why we can conclude today that we've now left that turmoil behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1433	I want to start by saying that I'm grateful that there is a great commitment to the Veterinary Institute, and I'm glad that it concerns both the opposition side and the position side and both here in the hall and out there among people, because it anchors one of our most important services out there, namely, ensuring good animal welfare, which in turn means something to good public health. This is important to all of us. I feel that it is good to have a discussion. At the same time, I am concerned that the government has said that we should have a regional structure and that the Stortinget has said that we should have a regional structure. We all agree on that. So the question is, should everything in this structure be like before? It's the way science and professional skills change at all times because we get new knowledge, new skills and new methods of doing things. It also needs to maintain the regional structure, but it needs to take care of the changes that allow us to take the right tests, that we have the right analyses, and that we have the right skills at all times. I want to establish once and for all that we need to have a regional structure that will be further developed, that will operate with research, and that will be a structure that ensures good quality when the Veterinary Institute moves to Ås.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1441	Then I would like to say that there was talk of employees here: I think that was in their place. It is incredibly important to take care of the employees. It's incredibly important to know when, how and why we're making changes. These are signals that I as the Council of State have given clear guidance for are incredibly important in meeting people, for this is about people, and it is about services to ensure both good animal welfare and good human resources policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1444	One might get a little confused when one sits and hears the debate, and perhaps especially when one hears the Council of State now at the end. The basis for this case is not a professional notion of changing the structure of the Veterinary Institute. It's not because of a professional recording that the Veterinary Institute cuts 20 million. kr – that is because it was a necessity since the government had granted too little money to the Veterinary Institute. There wasn't enough money to move from Oslo to Ås – that's the reason, right? There is no professional justification for that. Now that the Council of State is calling for this to be very professionally important to be done, it has not come from the Veterinary Institute. There is something the Council of State says on the Stockholm Chair to cover that, in government, she has not been able to follow up the allocations to the Veterinary Institute to cover costs while maintaining the regional structure of many in this Chamber is important. That's the basis. Then it is well done that the representative Steinar Reiten is able to refer this, to move from Oslo to Ås, back to the Stoltenberg government – otherwise a sensible decision, and a large and important decision in view of the future functioning of the Veterinary Institute. The money that has now been missing and that the Veterinary Institute's board as a consequence has had to save by laying down other departments, cutting the number of employees, etc. is a result of the lack of appropriations for the State budget of the Veterinary Institute. So there's no scientific justification for that. Then I find it a little strange when many are either trying to take it as a reason, as the Council of State does, or doing as the representative of Reiten: trying to refer to the reason for this being many years back in time, through a decision by the Stoltenberg government and in the Stortinget. Both parts will be wrong. It's also about being a little honest, and this case wouldn't have been necessary for the opposition if there had been enough money for the Veterinary Institute. Then the Veterinary Institute, as we see it – and I can see no reason for anything else – had chosen to maintain the structure that was actually on the basis. It would have been reassuring for the employees. It would have been to maintain competence. It would have been to keep focus on this with autopsy and use the departments and competences around the country. The opposite, both what the Council of State says and what the representative Reten says, is to hide the reality that lies there: that the government spends too little money on following up important functions in the Norwegian food system.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1460	I think it might be nice to clean up a little bit of the discussion that we now have. If we go back and look at the previous document, I think there is agreement on Stortinget that we should have a strong professional environment at Ås. I don't think anyone has expressed a negative opinion about that. Everybody's got a few things to do. Then there is a broad consensus that one should have strong regions. There's also a lot of agreement on the Storting. In meeting with reality, it is quite an ambitious budgetary position to have. Then a budget that meets that ambition must be provided. It's not that because one of them is both, we've created a problem. The problem arises when the budget does not stretch to maintain the vision of strong regions and a highly central professional environment at Ås. We don't know what kind of budgetary dialogue it has here. We haven't begun to look for it in the sumanes, and it's not sure that we're going to do it either, but if one had, there might have been a budgetary dialogue between the Veterinary Institute and the government, where the Veterinary Institute has said that with the funding they now have, it's hard to maintain the visions of both of these two. It could be. Perhaps only one person in this room knows what has been said in that budget dialogue. But one cannot continue with two so strong visions without budget money. It must be open to everyone. Then the question is, why do I care about Stortinget that it is important to have strong regions? Because we think it affects autopsies, what kind of autopsies one gets in. At Ås, a technology as high as you want, but if you don't get the animals, they don't get the samples because the transport is too long, the whole point is lost. Then a high tech could be just a will without autopsy. Having the local skills, the regional preparedness, the ability to obsess and to know local conditions is a strength in itself at the time we enter — especially now at the time we enter. The reason why I think that the Labour Party absolutely should not withdraw the proposal is that there is a lot of uncertainty, for example. that the Veterinary Institute has sent letters to all its users that all autopsies should be sent to Ås or to Sandnes. This is problematic, as it shows that there is still a driving force to oppose the strong desire of the Stortinge for a strong regional structure.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1471	I think one of the reasons why people might even have greater confidence in the debate in the Stortinge in previous years was that there was more similarity between what you actually experienced on the ground, and what was said from the pulpit. It is claimed by the representative, Reiten, that uncertainty has been cleared of the track. For those families who have experienced that some members have lost their jobs, I don't know if we're going to describe it as an uncertainty that's cleared off the road. It may be the uncertainty that they don't have the job the next month, they're not there, but they have a huge uncertainty about how to support the family in the time to come. The same thing goes to the Council of State, because it's claimed to have a decentralised structure. But it's actually just a foreign word if the workers, the people in the so-called decentralised structure, are forced away and lost their jobs. That's why this reminds me a lot of the debate on Color Line, where the Right wanted to put 700 Norwegian seafarers ashore, which fortunately was stopped. Then they talked about it as if there was no danger for the 700 families. We should have much greater respect for the employees who do honest work every day around our country, whether it's on Color Line, or it's on the Veterinary Institute – and not use exhaustive foreign words. We are elected to represent them, and then the debate in the Chamber should be based on the reality of the ground. It's a good saying that says, "Do to others what you want others to do to you." I'm pretty sure that if the representative Reiten or others in this room had been employed at the Veterinary Institute and had lost the job or been in danger of losing the job, for the rest of the year or next year, we would have wanted elected representatives to say what it was like: yes, there is a distance between what is awarded in the State budget, and the plans that the Veterinary Institute has for centralisation. At least it has clarified this debate. The right-wing government wants to centralize the autopsy, and that's why the red-green parties still stand at the proposal, and the purpose of granting extra money is to avoid such centralization. The allocation of funds is not an end in itself. The allocation of funds is an instrument for ensuring competence. In a well-known election poster that has been important for Norway, it said: ‘The results are as a counter’. It's the results that count from what we get out of our money.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1482	Thank you for the debate, although I think it is quite special not to take on that yes, it was economics, yes, it was high pension costs, yes, it cost to move, but one also builds one of the most modern institutions in Ås, which will require changes outside. I think it is quite special that the representatives of the Workers' Party do not take it into account. When one makes changes to a large institute, which one now does, in working methods, with the most modern autopsy rooms, with the most modern laboratories, we will ensure that it is a service we can use throughout the country. Then we're concerned about and dependent on a decentralised structure that gets samples, takes samples, obsessesses it a can in Tromsø and in Sandnes, and at the same time ensures that one gets the samples where we have the best methods to solve this. We do this because we think this is best for animal welfare, and that this is best to ensure that we still have the best animal health and, not least, with the least use of antibiotics. The veterinary institute shall have a decentralised structure with quality, competence and, in particular, research and change options based on the need at all times.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1489	The representative Geir Pollestad has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1494	I just take the word to say that there is an interesting debate and discussion that the Council of State raises. Then it might have been an idea to bring up these issues, for example. in the State budget for 2019 when it was submitted to the Stortinget. That's the reaction, not that one makes changes in the Veterinary Institute, if it were a proper process. But this comes as a result of an acute lack of money in the Veterinary Institute. The size has not been informed about this, and there is no indication of this process in the draft State budget for 2019.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1499	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1515	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1525	There has long been a desire to improve the taxi offer. It's not that everything is very well with today's system, so you can get the impression in the debate. Several developments have led the Ministry of Transport to take a closer look at the taxi market and the taxi regulation. There are high entry barriers, low competition, the offer is not adapted to demand, and taxi operators have long waiting times and a lot of empty driving. Together with low price information, this contributes to high prices for customers. The framework conditions for taxi transport have changed significantly since the regulation of taxis was introduced. There is a great technological development in the market, and our neighbouring countries are liberalizing their taxi markets. The main challenge of making changes to the Professional Transport Act is the big difference between central and districts. It is important that in a system of new taxi regulation there are opportunities to ensure a satisfactory taxi offer throughout the country. The law changes give the states a special responsibility for this part of the taxi policy. It is therefore important to ensure that county municipalities have tools to ensure good taxi coverage. It is clear from the law that this can be regulated by county regulations and the conclusion of exclusive agreements. The amendment of the law means that the ceiling on permissions lapses. It is important, however, to underline that there is still to be a requirement for authorisation for the carriage of passengers by vehicle of up to nine seats. The requirements for the holder of the authorisation are reduced slightly, but the requirement for a driving licence is tightened. There is also an intensification of the bill by the fact that one in Section 4 equates transport to the public sector, whether it is physical or via digital platforms. This closes an important loophole in the current law, which only attached the requirement of public space permits. In addition, the permits will have to be renewed every 10 years. This will allow more new players to enter the market, but will also help to remove the unprofessional ones. The person holding taxi licenses must himself meet all the objective requirements. In other words, pursue an actual and lasting activity in Norway, be of good repute and have a satisfactory financial capacity. The Ministry emphasises that the purpose of the requirement of satisfactory financial standing is to ensure that the creditor has a sufficiently orderly economy for the proper functioning of the business, including the ability to pay public taxes and charges. The requirement for taximeters in the taxis is maintained, but technical solutions other than today’s taximeters are open. The majority will point out that it is important that alternatives to taximeters also meet the objectives of taximeters as far as is appropriate and note that the Ministry proposes, until further notice, to continue the requirement for taximeters in the professional transport regulation of Section 48. It is a relatively extensive amendment to the Professional Transport Act and the Regulation, which will affect the individual taxi driver and industry. The waiver of the obligation to be connected to a central authority also means the removal of the right of association. However, the need for the centres or other forms of organisation does not go away. Until then, the ordering market is too important for the industry. However, what one can expect is that the majority of the actors will organise themselves in larger companies or use a larger distribution of taxi services. This could lead to professionalisation of the industry. Today, each owner of the privilege is self-employed, with the obligations that this entails. In future legislation, in our opinion, we are likely to get larger players with their own rights and employees drivers. In this way, more people will be able to get a professional employer, with the rights it implies to be employed. Today’s driver, who is employed by a privilege holder, is also given the opportunity to take out permission – if desired – or apply for a job with another business concept/centre. The main objective of the amendments to the Professional Transport Act is to create an industry that improves quality and price. It will be achieved by making it easier to recruit for the profession, but also to phase out the unprofessional. When customers get into a taxi, they should feel safe and know that they are going where they are going, at a pre-arranged price and in a timely manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1544	Many have their daily work of transporting people and goods on Norwegian roads. The Labour Party regards drivers as a professional group with the right of course to live on their job and to establish themselves with family, house and home. In this bill, the government is adding to a policy of temporary jobs and poor working conditions, and many fear that this part of the transport industry too will now develop into a market of undeclared work and unprofessionalism. The pressure on employment and wages already points to a level where the driver profession becomes impossible to live on. This development will not have the Workers' Party. The government has submitted a bill to remove the number limit on taxis and open the doors wide open for apps like Uber and Cabify. This will destroy the labour market of a large profession in the taxi industry. Both perpetrators and drivers are going to face major challenges if this bill is adopted, which unfortunately seems to be happening. People and families who need predictable income and the ability to secure their homes, apartments, future pensions and social security schemes must now be forced to compete against leisure drivers with a Uber app that is not aware that arranged conditions are fundamental rights in a modern society. The government takes the old-fashioned and dangerous labour society back to Norwegian passenger transport. The Labour Party is opposed to the proposal because there are greater differences, but there are also many other reasons to oppose the proposal, and there are many in this case. The expertise is quite clear in the hearing opinions. Norwegian Ecoforum has members from the tax administration, police, Nav, customs and others who work against economic crime, among others. in banking and insurance, and they warn against the proposal, which, in their view, will lead to wrong developments. They fear that the consequence will be that the industry will be brought back to the way it was before the great cleanup of the 1990s, with much undeclared work, tax evasion and financial crime. Nearly unmarked taxis shall now be open to leisure, without the competence of VAT, tax and working time. The Transport Economics Institute also warns against development, and the Oslo Municipality fears chaos in the center when cars without belonging to the central are standing along the pavement to plow customers. It is even the case that the Consumer Council, which supports liberalisation, warns: ‘The research and experience from countries where the needs test has been suspended shows that a release in the number of permits presents risks of over-establishment, increased prices in the individual customer market, lower quality of services and the centralisation of the service geographically and with regard to the concentration of taxi services at certain times of the day.’» That's very well said. The proposal is perceived by us as a kneecap for market-liberalist ideology in an area where it will not work. In addition, there's a crash for Uber, who's ruined large parts of the taxi industry all over the world, and they haven't earned a single penny yet. The right-wing government is using market-liberalist ideology despite all the warnings, and there are a lot of people who have to pay for, whether they're customers, drivers or perpetrators. If it goes like a warning, and there's a lot of evidence, unfortunately, the state will also be left as a loser, because of a lack of tax revenue. No, everything isn't perfect, as I'm saying. But it might have been an idea to talk to the parties, talk to the customers, talk to the experts, so that one could get a proposal that could carry out. That is why we also have a proposal that goes along with it, and I am taking up the proposals of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1564	The representative Øystein Langholm Hansen then brought up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1569	This debate on amendments to the Professional Transport Act which we are about to deal with has been going on for a long time. In short, there has been a matter that has created and continues to create great commitment. The contradictions between those who want to increase competition and liberalisation and those who do not want any change at all are great. But society is still changing. Products and businesses come and go. New technologies offer new opportunities, better services and better service both to the suppliers of goods and services and not least to the users or customers. A market where there has been a lot of regulation and little modernisation is the taxi market. It has, among other things, led to a lack of optimal functioning of the taxi market. It's not like the Workers' Party here claims, that the problems will arise with the changes we're making, and that the earnings will decrease. Regrettably, earnings have fallen over several years and have not been positive for the industry. You have experienced a loss of earnings, and it has not been positive for the customers either. In addition, the EFTA Surveillance Authority has pointed out that parts of the legislation are in direct conflict with the EEA Agreement. All of this demands on us politicians both in terms of their willingness and ability to make the necessary changes in order to adapt laws and regulations to today's society. The government has taken the consequences of this, and that is why we now have this case for consideration today. Competition is healthy, competition is right and competition is important. This is not how the Workers' Party tries to claim that competition is not working. They have also said that in the past when it comes to e.g.: public tasks such as road construction, but now I even think the Workers' Party sees New Roads working perfectly in competition with the State Road Service, and that tax money and tax money are getting better. It is completely wrong that competition only works for clothing stores, food shops, pubs and restaurants. Competition works largely in all areas of society, including the taxi industry. What is crucial is that competition takes place on a level playing field, and that's exactly why we set foot down for Uber in the first place when they tried, because we saw that it was unfair to today's established taxi market. But I understand those who experience change and increased competition, and that they view it as worrying. I understand that it can create uncertainty. Of course, it's easier and safer to leave things as it always has been, but it's not safe it's for the best, and at least not for the best for the customer and the consumer. Then it's important to see the possibilities. Then it is important to see opportunities to succeed in the taxi market, and I am convinced that we are now opening up to it. Today's government opens up the possibility that the companies that operate seriously provide good service and are of good quality will be able to secure new market shares. They'll be able to get new customers. One example of a creative player in the industry, which I think we'll be able to see more of in the future, is Norwaystaxis. In Trondheim they now open something called Jip, with a fixed price of 99 kroner. They adjust it to a period of 24 hours when it is a little quiet – between hours. 5 p.m. and 5 p.m. 01.00 – where you get a fixed price of only 99 kroner within the bombing in Trondheim. Such offers are a bit of creative solutions, and I think we'll see more of them with increased competition, increased diversity and increased flexibility. The serious think I'll actually get strengthened by the changes, and the unprofessional will hopefully be very few of them, and they'll hopefully lose and disappear from the market. Today, for example, the Central Banks have limited sanctions, but with the changes that the government is now making, it will be easier to get rid of bad and unprofessional actors. It is also important to distinguish between city and country. We allow the county councils to grant exclusive rights to the vast majority of municipalities in Norway, 384 municipalities. It'll just be about. 38 municipalities where there will be competition. In addition, we open up so that it is possible to run on part-time, which is what the Workers' Party is trying to make as negative. After all, that's all the opposite. It's positive, especially in the countryside. That's where it's needed. Where there is no customer basis for running full-time, the Workers' Party still wants to force people to run full-time. We want the farmer to be able to drive taxis in the evening and tractor in the daytime. It is a perfect combination that absolutely works, also for excavators and many more. With regard to customers and the taxi market, I think it's an interesting cross of thoughts that the biggest challenge for the taxi industry may not be changes from today's government. Rather, the collective offer is becoming so good that it has become a big player and a big competitor to the taxi market.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1594	The center part will not be on this hazardous tour that the government is adding up to now. The trip goes in the wrong direction, to the wrong place and at a speed that makes it end in the ditch. The board says this in a slightly different way, but the statements mean about the same thing. The Board of Regulators states that the investigation is deficient in relation to the extent of the proposal, that deregulation itself is not necessarily synonymous with good competition, and that experience from other countries is not mentioned. TØI's report of April 2019 shows that the government's proposal is the worst possible option for Oslo. This is also pointed out by the Police Directorate, who is concerned about even greater over-establishment in Oslo. They call today's situation anarchy. But here the government wants to deal with more of the medicine that doesn't work. We now get even more taxis in the cities and even fewer in the districts. Fewer taxis in the districts probably fit well into the government’s strategy of centralising Norway, but it seems that the government is trying to hide this by wanting to introduce something called the exclusive right model. Government parties seem to cling to a argument that the exclusive right will ensure the district dross a safe income and the population a good offer. But the exclusive model is a trap for the taxi owners. The removal of need testing and duty at the expense of the exclusive right model will lead to the reality of taxis everywhere changing to taxis in favourable places at favorable times. This will permanently destroy the mobility preparedness of the taxis across the country and will create major geographical differences in the number of passenger services available in the future. This readiness 24/7 throughout the year across the country has been free for all of us. Now it's going to be too many. Now I come to three great mysteries in this matter: Number one: What is the reason why the government has turned around and gone away from confirming the objective of seeing taxi policy as part of collective policy and that the industry has an important societal mission? The goal is good and it was actually part of the government platform in 2013. Now it's completely gone. It has been replaced by a sentence in the last two government platforms to allow the use of the sharing economy in passenger transport. The NTP states that the taxis are part of the public transport service and that the framework conditions must meet the needs of users for accessibility and safety. And this, too, the government is going away from now. The second mystery is that the proposition still refers to the EEA Agreement, to EEA law and to ESA. The ESA considers that the examination of the needs and the obligation of the holder of the privilege to be associated with a taxi centre is not in line with the right of free establishment under Article 31 of the EEA Agreement. However, it is clear that restrictions on the right of free establishment under the EEA Agreement are legal if justified for reasons of general interest — and there is a general interest in ensuring an adequate provision of passenger transport for the public. The changes that are now taking place are not because the EEA Agreement requires it, but because the government wants it. Why it wants to dismantle the taxi industry as part of public transport and ignore the needs of users for accessibility is a mystery. The third mystery is how representatives from the Right can go out in the newspapers and say that the main elements of today's legislation are being passed on, and trivialise the changes as some adaptations. Dismantling the need test/number regulation, discharging the obligation to operate, completing the central connection obligation, removing the requirement of financial permission guarantee, removing the current requirements of the privilege holder’s competence, removing the provision that the privilege holder must have a taxi as their principal occupation and removing taximeters and ceiling lamp are not minor changes. There are complete changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1614	The proposed changes will change the country's taxi industry – I think many here in the Chamber agree – and they will change it in many ways. As SV sees it, it is wrong and serious grips are taken in several areas. First of all, there are major shortcomings in what we have been served by the government. What about the industry? What will happen to the established industry? Those who now own or drive taxis, what do they expect? How is the labour market affected there and the family economy? What about integration for many of the immigrants who have been driving taxis for a long time? What about their families? I have to say that I have received many direct enquiries from taxi drivers who have almost panicked about the situation now and what this hall will adopt today. These are lack of impact assessments for the whole industry and for all users of taxis today. It has been referred from several speakers here to the Council of Ministers, who largely agree with such a description. I'm not going to go into it any more. But there are so many defects and we took such a big mistake in the eyes of SV, that we want the whole law sent back to the government. It is such a serious grip and such a big case that we had expected a more thorough review of all the aspects surrounding the changes in the law. That's our primary point of view, which I want to justify beyond. In addition, on the basis of the political position here in the Chamber, and realism, we have put forward some proposals that the whole opposition is now behind and that can be seen as a single subsidiary position. I'm going to take some of the most important appeals against the law changes. What is at least clear is that the measures proposed by the government now involve a number of measures for liberalisation and privatisation where market mechanisms are to be raw. It will be easier, and it will be freer, more liberal and without any specific public governance – it is the idea behind – also in key areas of society such as infrastructure. We've seen it on railway operations, we've seen it on new postal laws and other things. The proposed measures – with the removal of the number of permits need testing, the removal of the obligation to be related to a central, the suspension of professional competence requirements for the holder of the authorisation, the abolition of warranty requirements for the holder of the licence, the reduction of labelling requirements for the taxis, the suspension of requirements for the test of knowledge, etc. – is in practice a release for a number of unprofessional operators in the taxi industry. I can't interpret it in any other way, and I think it's well done to twist it and interpret it in another way by others as well. I don't get it. Then you have to admit that there is a release with everything that it implies. These grips with the removal of targets on taxi driving as main jobs, where there will be many part-time jobs, lead us irresistibly to a layman's society. It can also be admitted by the majority – which is behind these legislative changes. So a lot of dross will float around the cities, in Oslo, for example, when it's market for it, maybe by night, and the changes will largely lead to urban over-establishment. It becomes a more unintended industry, and it becomes more difficult to control a tax. All of this is quite evident from the changes proposed. SV is opposed to the most serious proposal, namely to abolish test requirements and driving obligations. I can refer to, for example: Norwegian Transport Workers' Association, Professional Traffic Association and LO, not to mention the industry's seas, which strongly warns against these proposals. The taxi association believes that the current system of tested taxi runs is the best way to operate a taxi regulation. And then SV agrees with the taxi organisations in Oslo on the issue around the EEA and that we have some demands – that it is necessary to change. We disagree with that, and the representative Siv Mossleth explained something. I can come back to it if it is desirable, but we have justified it in the setting. There is no need to stay for the EU in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1632	So SV doubted the whole assumption of the rule of law ideology in this case, namely that competition automatically gives lower prices, and I'm going to get back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1635	The left has a good hope that passengers using the public transport service will be well assisted with efficient and safe taxi driving in the future when we – hopefully – adopt amendments to the Professional Transport Act today. Drose is part of the public service provision. To put it this way, the ice cream industry isn't what it once was. In particular, this applies in the major cities. We read in the statistics that fewer people use taxis when they need to transport themselves. The reasons for this are probably many, and there are several representatives who have been involved, but I think it may be because public transport has become much better, and your own car is more common and more common. But the number of taxis on the road has not changed. As a result, the driving time with passengers has decreased. Although the taxi industry is regulated, there are too many providers most of the week. Once again, this goes beyond the drivers and owners of the taxis. In order to achieve a good profit, too many hours have to be worked and nights and weekend work often have to be supplemented in order to obtain a satisfactory income for one and the same driver. Over time, it is not sustainable that so many drivers and cars offer this service to the extent they do today. This is particularly true in cities. The thrashings are expensive, and the price system is inconclusive. It can be surprisingly expensive as long as the taximeter goes. A pre-price should be the only alternative in the order market. Together with modern technology, with several simultaneous providers, it becomes a real competition. The balance between too few jobs and falling demand means that the price is set to feed the same number on this industry. But then you get into an evil spiral, with a taxi market that destroys everyone. In fact, today there is a high demand for personnel in the other transport sectors. Public service provision is increasing, and new drivers must be employed on buses, trams, trains and tracks. The amount of goods also increases, and there are also available jobs for good drivers with experience, for example. from taxi driving. The industry itself has little faith that today's taxi driver has some alternative. I think they need to find job options in line with demand. Further education in the modern and dynamic working life of Norway is not uncommon at all. Norway is a diverse country, and it is clear that we cannot have the same law for taxiing across the country. The county councils are now allowed to grant exclusive rights for taxi transport in municipalities with low population and scattered settlements. The left is very concerned about the distinction between city and country. Most municipalities can be regulated by the exclusive right model. My example is from Trøndelag, where only the taxis in Trondheim have to deal with the deregulation and the increased competitive situation in the taxi market, while the 47 other municipalities may have an exclusive right model. Promises and rules shall be followed, new technologies introduced, approval of vehicles important, improved driver training shall be carried out. It is demanding to have a taxi industry that ensures that drivers get a good and stable job and serve an audience who expects good service, safe transport, good car quality and a favourable price. The left has great faith that today's majority proposal for a majority decision is well under way. The ice cream market needs a lot of night and weekend driving, driving at big events, perhaps even when there is bad weather. This means that many can make use of their skills in other jobs or studies.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1658	There is a need to modernise the taxi code. We need a renewal, both for the sake of customers, for the sake of development and not least to ensure an equivalent offer throughout the country, also in the future. For the Christian People's Party, it has been important to ensure that customers can be sure that they have good offers, regardless of where they live in the country. In recent years, taxi regulation has been a major focus, and market challenges have arisen. ESA has indicated in a reasoned opinion that the Norwegian taxi regulation is contrary to the EEA Agreement. Nor is there any doubt that the taxi market has changed since the taxi regulation was introduced in the 1940s. The market is not working well enough today, and then we have to take the responsibility that politicians have and do forward-looking action. Today, there are too many fluctuations in demand in different periods, and there are too many variations between regions. The changes currently proposed should provide a better taxi offer for customers. There has also been a need to revise the legislation in the light of new technologies, new platforms and changing customer behaviour. Changes had to come. For the Christian People's Party, it has been important to find solutions for how we can see city and country differently. There are different needs depending on population density, and what works well in cities can, of course, be very difficult to deal with in the districts. For us, it has been important that the new system of new taxi regulation ensures a good taxi offer throughout the country. That is why I am pleased that the government has put in place an exclusive right model that gives the states an increased responsibility for precisely this part of the taxi policy. If it is desirable to ensure a certain level of preparedness or maintain a certain standard of transport in each area, the county authorities will have tools to ensure the necessary taxi cover. It is clear from the law that this can be regulated by county regulations and the conclusion of exclusive agreements. The Christian People's Party believes that the proposal that now exists from the government responds well to what has been our starting point all the way, by facilitating greater competition in the cities and at the same time ensuring the provision of services in the districts. This is particularly important at a time when sales in the taxi industry are falling, and new car sharing services are becoming increasingly popular. For the Christian People's Party, increased competition is not an end in itself. We have a pragmatic relationship with it. But through increased competition, we want to facilitate increased innovation and a better offer to customers, through a wider range of offers. And where there is no basis for effective competition, opportunities for granting exclusive rights are introduced to ensure good provision for the population throughout the country. In the case of licence requirements, it is continued, but it is relaxed on the content of the licence requirement for the trader. At the same time, we want to introduce a professional qualification requirement for drivers of taxis, and for the trader it will be easier to obtain a licence, while the requirements will be strengthened for the driver of the taxi. For the Christian People’s Party, it is also important to follow up what is also mentioned in the referral of the majority of the Committee, the request Decision 582 of 2 June 2015, to introduce requirements for the installation of alcoves in all vehicles used for the carriage of passengers for remuneration on the road. At present, there is a directive on alcohol locks on buses. A phase-in of alcohol locks should now be put in place quickly in a taxi. Transitional arrangements or state incentives must be considered in this context. This is now being facilitated in very many EU countries. We have today's technology, costs have become much lower, and passenger safety is better protected by the introduction of alcohol in taxis as well. With this proposal that we are dealing with today, we ensure that it will continue to be good taxi services throughout the country. The regulatory framework is being modernised as development progresses, and at the same time we respond adequately to ESA's demands. The Christian People's Party is therefore voting for this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1681	It's a little bit of a wonder I'm following today's discussion, because many people have referred to the audio recordings from, for example. For example, no one from the opposition has yet found it worth mentioning. The Consumer Council says this is a reasonable adjustment for those who, after all, are on the road and need taxi services. Most of all, one can still be impressed by the Center Party, which once again determines that today’s situation is anarchy – so that situation they would like to maintain. It does not depend on any of the statements made by the opposition, nor on the conclusions of their own claims. To SV one could say that they would like to do in one of these things: SV choose a policy for them instead of the many, those who are actually going to use the taxi services. There are, after all, a number of those who rely on taxi services to continue to be an attractive industry to work in, but who also provide safer services. That is why, quite rightly, we are moving the competence requirements from the owner to the person who actually runs the car, because it provides a safer supply to the passengers. In the area by region, I could actually go ahead and go through the proposal that the government has made today – not on the basis that it is because ESA comes and whips us behind, no, on the basis that it is right to convert the transport industry for a new time. They cannot lose their turnover year after year, keep their eye on it and believe it will pass. In the Center Party, it's possible, but it's not possible for people in private business. Therefore, it is about laying the framework for a viable industry that is still regulated and that takes its customers seriously. This means that the customer service has been focused when we have now made changes to the taxi regulation on the basis that when something is wrong, we have to fix it. The working party also fears black work in the taxi industry by deregulation of the services. If it was such that one was afraid of black work, one could take a few Google searches for taxis or taxis and black work during today's regulation. It's not like there's been a problem that's not going to happen. On the contrary, the alternatives to taxis that are now being developed are not regulated in any way. That's what's the black market. That's the market we have to get into organized forms. There is therefore a need for new regulation – to ensure that those who drive and transport passengers have lower barriers to establishment, so that they can do so in organized forms. But that's not just what's happening. The imaging services are growing up, camera running, which is what it is called in the building, where I come from. An organizer does not organize a taxi, but hears if someone else is able to run, and then plug another hundred or two pieces into it. It's the taxi industry in the building in many cases, because it's not like some representatives here claim, that there's always a taxi available. I have said many times in the taxi debates here on the house that I am a warm defender of him Bakke-Roar. He's run me to everything I need, mostly. But when he had a trip to Ålesund, there was no taxi in Dalsbygda in seven hours. It was not such that there was a taxi available in the district at any given time. We had one, and we can still have one, because he can grant one right – to operate, to have monopoly in a market. That's what it takes to maintain a supply in the whole country. This is a modernisation of service provision based on the failure of consumers to provide the services they have set up. These are necessary changes to ensure that the emergence of new forms of transport is brought into a regulated market that makes an organised working life possible. The fact that the Labour Party is turning its back on it is almost unlikely, but that is what they are doing today. This is the necessary modernisation of future transport services. Therefore, I am pleased that the Stortingen joins the government today in its proposal for taxi regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1695	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1700	In the hearing opinion, the Transport Economic Institute states that the model presented by the government is the worst case for Oslo, and indicates that the most challenging market in the future is the street and holding market, i.e. cars with no central connection, i.e. cars such as the Swedish «freemen», which create many challenges in Sweden. In their consultation opinions, the Norwegian Ecoforum says that they are concerned that this bill will take us back to the taxi conditions we had in Oslo before spending a lot of energy and money cleaning up black work, tax fraud and poor employer relationships. What does the government know, as the experts and we don't understand?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1707	I think the Labour Party understands a lot of this, but it's only very difficult to have a debate on the need to modernise service provision, so it's a good thing. The Consumer Council is e.g. Very clearly in its recommendations. We see a market that loses turnover. We see the emergence of a completely different mobility. We see that the growth of the transport market benefits other parts of the industry than the taxi market. So what do we do? The employer's answer is to sit still. One sits completely calm and hopes that the problem goes over. That's not enough. Workplaces in the taxi industry are most at risk when turnover disappears under one's legs. We need to re-establish growth in the taxi industry – the growth in transport, because there is growth in the transport market. Dry nutrition has to get its share of it, because we're modernizing, because we're making establishmental barriers lower, because it can be cheaper for many people to choose taxis. That's why we need a change in the taxi industry. It's not harder than that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1712	It is regrettable that the Council of State does not listen to what is said from the pulpit. The undersigned has referred to the Consumer Council, which is critical and has a lot of reservations about its support for this. What this government is doing is opening up to the labour society. Hubert Horan, an American trades expert, strongly warns against what is happening in Norway now: a market failure that comes from getting Uber, as I also mentioned in my post. Despite this, despite warnings from experts, politicians from the government parties are cheering for it to open up to Uber in Norway. Then I'd like to end by asking, what are they cheering for?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1719	I don't have a jubilee, a cork for Uber or other actors. But I am happy on behalf of the passengers and that there will be lower barriers to establishment. It can bring innovation into the taxi industry. It may make it easier to establish that a supply is more related to demand, that a more differentiated supply is available in large cities, where the market is large, but that a simultaneous supply is provided in all parts of the country, through the one-rights model we propose. I don't have any special love for Uber. I also have no special love for other companies. But I think competition works. I believe that better regulation – which means that the growth of the passenger market also benefits the taxi industry because there are lower barriers to entry and hopefully lower prices at the start of a trip – will allow more people to benefit from taxis in the future. It will ensure a regulated, safe and solid taxi industry for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1726	The Government removes the competence requirement for the holder of the privilege but introduces a professional qualification requirement for the driver. At the same time, it is noted that it is important that the new requirements do not lead to an excessive barriers to establishment for those wishing to engage in the use of authorised passenger transport services. This is actually a clean order for taxis from the EU. A professional who is a national of any EU country may now pursue his/her profession in Norway in the same way as a professional who has his/her professional qualifications from Norway. Norwegian authorities cannot require EU taxi drivers to conduct a Norwegian driving examination. Does not the Council of State fear that it can lead to social dumping when the government wants to invite all taxis across the EU to drive around Oslo and fallby its services?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1731	Sometimes I wonder if the Central Party has read the proposal, because the proposal does not describe this situation. We move the competence requirement from one – in some cases – passive permissions to those who actually run a car. This means that more people are going to experience a competence requirement. They have to do a course in Norwegian – it's hard if you don't understand Norwegian, I understand that too. This makes it possible for several of those who enter a cab in the future to be able to converse with their driver in the language we use most in this country. If this taxi proposal were to be as dangerous as the Center Party likes to express itself, there would be no reason to caricate it. Then one could just stick to it. Now, what you're trying to do is describe a reality that doesn't exist except in the heads of the Center Party. It bothers me to the extent that it is not easy. It is time for them to take into account the realities of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1738	Proposition describes something quite different than what the Council of State says. I am right about that matter. The government has increased the fee for wheelchair cars by nearly 250000 kroner from 1 January this year. It was a shock charge. In addition, the government is increasing the planned VAT on passenger transport. It's increased from 8 pst. to 12 pst. In the Government Declaration, the Government continued to notify changes in VAT. Now the proposal is a doubling of VAT on passenger transport, i.e. from 12 pst. up to 23 or 25 pst. Such tax explosions make it difficult to believe in the Minister of Transport when he says that he is concerned about the income of the taxi industry. When the government makes it so easy for all EU small and large taxi companies to establish themselves in Norway, does it not at the same time see that it can be easy for foreign companies to avoid VAT when they do not have to register in the VAT register when they establish themselves in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1745	I'll take good care to be as self-satisfied as the central party representative is open. Ivar Aasen once said, 'Be careful not to stretch; a faith must support up below'. If nothing else, I believe that a lot of people believe that the changes that have been made to the taxi code now are about a careful deregulation of parts of the industry, but at the same time a tight regulation that helps us to have more competition and increase the ability of others to operate in the taxi industry. The fact that the Center Party is trying to publish itself to be large tax opponents that will tighten up the collection of taxes and charges for both drivers and common people with billions of dollars – we can spend a lot of time on it – is not at all credible.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1752	I record that the Council of State did not entirely answer the last question – but it has nothing to do with me. Now I'm going to pretend I'm a good judge, and then I'm going to say that we have to create a framework for better market mechanisms, because good and healthy competition creates lower prices and gives satisfied population. It's probably ideology, mostly, and it's probably true in many areas of society. My question to the Council of State is: Can he admit that similar emissions or liberalisations have been carried out, including: in our neighbouring countries Denmark and Finland, have prices increased after liberalisation?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1761	I think I would recommend the representative Nävra to keep to being SVs. He'll dress better if I'm honest.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1767	I agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1772	Otherwise, it's not given that all places will get permanently lower prices in a taxi market. I recognize that. We've seen some examples of that. But we know what the alternative is. It is that the trade deficit will continue, with the result that prices continue to grow, with the result that there will be fewer and better drier industries. Finally, if we can't do anything about systems that don't work over time, undermine what is, after all, the most important thing, that there is a provision for passengers – an offer for passengers to travel, which has taxis as a necessary part of their collective service in the districts, as an additional part of the whole journey said in the cities. That is why we are changing the regulation – because it has to be, because the regulation is not sufficient today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1779	Could it be that if you have a plague in a foot or an arm, maybe it's good to get medicine for it? There may be things about the taxi industry that don't work now. There are probably a lot of people here in the Chamber who agree. Could it be that we could fix it, make some arrangements and grips that fix what the shoe is pressing, in the present system, instead of – as you can imagine – cutting off your foot or arm and simply destroying the whole industry? My question to the Council of State concerns the district profile, the exclusive right model, of which he is proud. He talks about it being'monopoly in a market' – it was said from the pulpit – and he was proud of it, so it will give opportunities to the districts, something like today, I understood. But how is it possible to compete in a spot market, in a market in Upper Sigdal or in Trøgstad, for example?? Can he describe it?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1786	The one-right model allows the county councils to award one-rights where they think it's necessary. This means that the county councils – in which the representative Nevra is usually more happy than I am – that he might have thought it was possible to make that kind of assessment – will be allowed to do so and with the assurance that the offer they think is adequate and necessary in all parts of the country. But the rightmost thing about the opposition is that the competence requirements are weakened and the industry is going to go into a completely unregulated state. Those who will have taxi licenses in the future must still have a business address in Norway. They must be of good repute. The person who runs the car must have professional competence, e.g. on first aid. One must be at least 20 years. One must have had a certificate for at least two years. One must have good health. One must have his car registered in Brønnøsundregistra as a taxi. One must have EU controls every year. One must have a taximeter or other future payment solution – as today. There are still a number of schemes that contribute to both the seriousness and the possibility of the county councils awarding a single right, which allows us to have a bid throughout the country. This I am completely overconfident about giving us a safe and safe taxi fare.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1797	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1805	Over the last few weeks, many of the changes that come for the taxi industry have been discussed. In the middle of the discussion there is a lot of misinformation and incorrect black paint. For some, especially us in North Norway, the changes will not be noticed particularly in practice. The concern that the taxi offer as we know it will disappear will not be a reality. In order to protect the districts, the government proposes an exclusive right model that preserves areas where the market itself does not offer enough. In such areas, the county may grant one or more companies the exclusive right to drive taxis in the municipalities concerned. For today's municipal structure this applies to 384 of the 422 municipalities in the country. Of the 384 municipalities that can be granted exclusive rights, we find all the municipalities in North Norway. Why? Because distance and population density are at the root of who can use the exclusive right model. Right-wing jobs always work for a smart district policy, which is why it has also been important for us to ensure our own rules for the taxi offer in the districts. That's more likely to be achieved with this proposal. The ice cream market is not working well today. When we look at the numbers for the whole country, we see that the revenue of the taxi drivers has fallen. There is a smaller taxi now than before, and it is expensive for consumers to take a taxi. On the right, this amendment of the law is because the taxi industry has changed significantly since the taxi regulation was introduced in the 1940s. Renewal is important for the future existence of the industry. We can't keep up the way we've always done, just because it's comfortable. The right would therefore like to welcome new thinking actors, as long as they comply with Norwegian laws and regulations. It is important to point out that all operators of the taxi industry have to register their activities in Norway. Developments in society also open up new opportunities for the taxi industry. We see a rapid development of public transport, where ordering transport is becoming more and more common. Several collective actors are trying out schemes like ‘Get Me’. That means that almost empty regular buses are replaced by smaller and more vehicles that pick people up where they are, bringing them to where they are going, when they want it. Here today’s taxi drivers will have a central role to play.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1815	I do not know the same concern for the taxi industry as some have shown with this bill. On the contrary, I think it's going to ensure a good, user-friendly and fairer offer for people, no matter where in the country they are. At least the right will continue to work to ensure that the taxi offer is good and available from Nordkap to Lindesnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1818	One thing at least is certain: the debate has shown so far that we have many common objectives, but very different procedures for achieving these objectives. Today’s legislation involves both the obligation to operate and the requirement to have a central connection with the rightholder. The thrush centres are responsible for the fact that there is a taxi available 24 hours a day and a minimum of jerseys always on the road at times with little customers. I'm putting emphasis on watch drozers. There is not one sitting on a chair waiting for a phone, but they are available. The central link allows the public to deal with a group of drivers who can provide transport for disabled persons, patients and school students when and where they need to. The centre party and industry believe that taxis should continue to be part of the overall public transport offer, with geographical coverage across the country, with framework conditions that can provide predictability and stability for the taxi industry. Public regulation of rights, strict quality and safety requirements and regulation of tariffs make the service safe and professional. The measures proposed by the government are reflected in a series of measures for liberalisation and privatisation, whereby market mechanisms will be able to operate as freely as possible without important public governance. Within this industry we believe it is wrong. We also see it – both railway operations and new postal laws are examples of this. The representative Langholm Hansen was in on it. Norwegian Eco-Forum, with its concerns, is a forum with quite – in my opinion – powerful speakers in such a case, such as police, prosecution authorities, taxes, tax collectors, customs, Nav and other control establishments. I would quote what they have given feedback about: ‘This proposed liberalisation will largely reverse and put the industry back where they were with a black and uncontrollable industry. The large amount of black driving by the Uber drivers alone is proof that there is a great deal of work and a lot of resources from tax authorities, police and NAV that in this case must be used in the industry to get the risk back to today’s standard, if the present proposals are decided.» I wonder who we should trust, the representative Johnsen or the Norwegian Eco-Forum. A so-called exclusive right model has been introduced in municipalities with less than 20 000 inhabitants. But what markets are these? The contract regime, which is the public contract market – patient, school, municipal transport and order – is not covered by this exclusive right model. The individual segments, which include the retail market and the holding market, are covered and there are markets that do not exist in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1836	It's with some wonder I'm following today's discussion, if I'm going to use the Council of State's own words. The interesting thing is that we have finally heard a little about a new agricultural policy and district policy from the Progress Party, and that is that the farmer should drive a tractor in the daytime and be taxi driver in the evening. That was interesting. So over to this thing: is everything perfect in the taxi industry? No, it's not. But are the government's solutions correct? Absolutely not. It is already a tough business today. I myself have many comrades who drive a taxi. They work eleven to twelve hours a day, six days a week, to make it go around. That's the reality. What is the government's answer to that? Indeed, it is social dumping, unemployment, the black economy, poorer supply, poorer quality – poorer for districts and more expensive for consumers. Then the council can say that this is black paint from the Workers' Party and the opposition. But I actually use the examples that the board member of the Nittedal Progress Party and the Executive Director of the Drammen Taxi, Odd-Ivar Gjersvik, have come along. He has said that it is the number before he has to resign from the Advancement Party. He should certainly do that today, after there is unfortunately a majority in favour of this. If the government would do anything for the taxi industry, they would have sent the case back, as the Workers' Party suggests, with the following message: Fix the weaknesses, do not destroy the offer, either in the cities or in the districts, make sure that there is decent working life and good pay and working conditions for taxi drivers, and that it does not cost consumers more, and not least use new technologies that can make you run a taxi even better with the collective offer that exists in the country. But it doesn't want the government, because this is about ideology, it's about free slip – which will make it more expensive, and will destroy the offer for the inhabitants.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1849	No one has mentioned the Consumer Council, said the Council of State – twice. It is regrettable that the Council of State does not listen to what is said in the pulpit. The undersigned said something about the Consumer Council, but the Council of State has obviously not heard about it, and he cannot have read the entire opinion either. They are very critical, as I quoted from this pulpit. This is about ideology on the part of the government, and it seems as if both the Council of State and the position have ideological cleavage. The working party is not passive in terms of industry challenges, but believes that listening to the expertise is a response to warnings. We also believe in interacting both with the operators in the industry, with the expertise and not least with the customers. Everything is not perfect, as the representative Igstad says, but a lot could have been done without breaking down this whole industry: moving demands from the licensee to the driver, yes – but why in the world do you neglect the requirements of the licensee, you could just introduce requirements for the driver? Drosje is no longer what it was, no – but I don't understand what could not have been changed within today's legislation, possibly changed easily on the legislation. It's been a long time since I called a central to get a taxi, I use an app. And there's something that's going to be so revolutionary in this proposal, that you're going to use technological platforms now. I'm using a technological platform when I need a taxi, it's either Taxifix or 07000 – or what they're called these apps. I have not yet heard that the position has refuted our claims about the unemployment society, but neither is this government so much concerned with countering the unemployment society. To the representative Åsjord Sire, who mentions Download Me: Get Me is a very good order. DownloadIg works in Sauda, Rogaland, without any need to change the legislation. That's the way it works, as I said, you don't have to break the law to get a modernisation in the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1870	As always when there are transport cases with major upheavals from this government, there is a point that is never mentioned. They're completely ignoring it. What is it? There are pay and working conditions for employees, those involved in the industry. We've seen it over and over again. Now there is no doubt that wages and jobs will suffer from a drag. We are strongly supportive of this view, for example: the very much quoted TØI report. There is another point that is not given much weight – I think it should have been done – and that concerns the safety of the taxis for the passengers. Already now about a quarter of the women feel unsafe in the taxis. It's clear that we should do something about it, we can criticise it, but the council believes that it's getting better or worse when the requirement for marking the taxis gets worse, when the roof lamp might be in danger, when it's not a central connection, and when you're going to spray a taxi on the street and not fully know the identity of the driver, or the person who owns the taxi? Do you think security will increase or decrease? I'm pretty sure the uncertainty among those who travel will increase. That's a pretty important point. The safety aspect is also an important point for drivers. It has not been mentioned either. Then we come to this with the taximeter, which the government and the state council have seen “necessary” to keep for a little while longer, until the demand for taximeters is fully clarified. A taximeter is not just a calculator that shows how much we're going to pay for our trip. A taximeter is also a safety cord for the driver. It is a computer that has a connection to the alarm centre, etc. This is completely sub-communicated. So we get an industry where liberalisation leads to more uncertainty for both drivers and those who travel with the taxis. This is a very important point. At the very end, I just want to draw attention to a point in the opposition's proposal, which I think the government parties should have thought through and considered supporting, regardless of the treatment here in the Chamber. It concerns the coordination of all public orders for taxis. We have TT driving, school driving, patient driving. This should have been addressed in order to achieve coordination. Of course, we also want this to go to those who have the exclusive right to drive taxis.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1884	It strikes me, after hearing the debate here today, that neither the Minister for Transport nor the speakers from the government parties are particularly actively arguing for the major changes that are now taking place in the taxi policy here in the country. I have seen reading instructions in the last few days, signed by representatives of government parties in the Transport Committee, who say the same thing. There will be no specific changes in taxi policy, but the government's proposition states that this is a major change in taxi policy in Norway. I think the Minister for Transport made a good contribution today, but he spoke very little about the changes proposed in the proposal, the great change in the taxi policy by removing the number limit and the need test. Removes the rules on the granting of rights. One removes the obligation of connection to taxi centres, and we all understand that the government will gradually remove the requirement of taximeters. It's a big change. Now, the general rule is that the right can be granted to the person who is actually and permanently active in Norway, who is of good repute and has a satisfactory financial standing. I think there are a lot of Northmen coming within that category, and that now, with some adjustments, can start up and run the taxi. This is a big conversion. And I'm going to be the first to point out that there's a lot that's not good enough with the taxi industry today, but now let's grab it and do something about it. When the Minister of Transport is talking about how much black work is in the taxi industry today, I was not aware that this is a big problem now. I am aware that this was a big problem in the past, but I thought it was cleaned up. If there is a major problem with black work in the taxi industry, the Minister of Transport, the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Justice and others have to deal with it and do something about it. Or is it that the government walks around and sees that there's a lot of black work in the taxi industry? No, this is simply to take Norway in the wrong direction. I drive a lot of taxis, in Oslo, in Akershus, on the Gardermoen and many other places. I meet a lot of taxi drivers who talk about how long it is between each trip. The Gardermoen record is a taxi driver who has been waiting for four hours. Today, many taxi drivers are afraid of the future for their industry. They are afraid they have a job to live on, and this does not just apply to drivers. This applies to both drivers and owners. I remind you again of the last issue of the TAXI magazine entitled «Worst Government of the Times». So hard words I wouldn't even use.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1897	Dale State Council allowed itself to quote the Aasen. I would also like to quote - Arrogant behavior from the Council of State. Directly rude not to answer concrete questions. When we talk about quotes, it wasn't the Senter party that said there was anarchy in the taxi market. It was the Police Directorate. Of course, the centre party will correct weaknesses. We have made proposals for a big message in the last four years to improve weaknesses, but it had a completely different starting point to what this government has, which will only liberalize. Back to the point that the government will invite the entire EU to drive taxis in Oslo and elsewhere in Norway, because the proposition says: ‘Introducing a professional qualification requirement for the driver, the Professional Qualifications Act and the corresponding Regulation will apply to the recognition of the driver of taxis with professional qualifications from other EEA countries.’ – That is, the whole EU plus some others. ‘The introduction of a professional qualification requirement means, according to the Professional Qualifications Act, Section 3(a), that the driver of a taxi is a regulated profession. The purpose of the law is to facilitate the practice of a professional who is a national of an EEA Member State or Switzerland in Norway in line with a professional who has acquired his professional qualifications in Norway, in accordance with the EEA Agreement.» The consequence of this is that the Norwegian authorities cannot require a taxi driver from other EEA States or Switzerland, i.e. The entire EU may be required to conduct the Norwegian driving examination. It may be in cases where the driver has already carried out an equivalent test or acquired the necessary professional experience in another EEA country or Switzerland. In other words, if a taxi has been driven in any EU country and operates there, when this law enters into force, one can come and falby its services in Oslo. It can be done in the same way as a taxi driver with certificates of competence from Norway. In addition, the current situation does not call for an increase in the competence of the taxi industry. It weakens, by removing all claims on holders of rights, and there are a lot of important demands on those who are going to run a serious business.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1915	When I hear this debate, I wonder how to start, and I thought most of all about Solan Gundersen: drag me backwards into the bird box! There are so many claims coming, and I have the impression that the opposition is more orientated about the future than about the present. They're so sure of what's going to happen when this is adopted, they're so sure that misery comes. But they haven't seen what's actually happening today, what's actually happening here. You talk about Uber and others who have previously been able to drive around freely in Oslo and bring passengers everywhere. This is because one has had a rule in Section 4 of the law that says that permission is attached to public space – the taxis that are to be allowed are the ones to be served from public space. And now you're going to sharpen it up. Now you're saying that you have to equalise the physical and the digital platform and require permission from those who are going to drive in another way. They say that now you want to separate the taxis. Which companies are going to separate, remove the advertising from their taxi in a competitive situation? It would be to say that now everything is black, now I take away the sign on the roof, I stop calling it Oslo Taxi, no one should know what I am. That's not happening. On the contrary, the centres can now evolve. They can get rid of bad drivers, and they can clean up and give good drivers better conditions. One of the main problems is not only that you have a driving obligation, but also that you have a connection obligation and a connection right. I have repeatedly met taxi drivers who complain that they have had to accept taxi drivers who they do not really want, but who have received a right. It's like people are joining a party, and you want to say, "No, unfortunately, it's full!" But it's essentially other rules that are being introduced. So you say this is going to lead to black. I even had in my post a significant point about labour law, that those who are now going to be central to organising taxi drivers in the future will act professionally as employers. It's not a matter of becoming a more substantial layman's society, it's actually that here you have the opportunity if it's arrested. But the centers must seize that opportunity, and not dig themselves into the problems that are just now towering up.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1924	It's not full on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1929	It was an inspiring post. I will continue to say a little bit more about what I finished my previous post with. This is what is called exclusive rights, which, as I see it, must be regarded as a patch on the wound when you introduce this law, and which some people are very concerned with as a district card – which does not at all respond to the needs of the districts, or offer the same offer as a permit test and driving obligation. That means a concession where you can say you have both rights and obligations. For: This exclusive right only applies in the single-step segment, which in a way does not exist at my home at Dombås. There we don't see taxis floating all night trying to preach someone who's going home from a party. It's not that segment that matters. It's the contract segment that matters, as the representative Nävra was up to. That's what's the foundation for someone wanting to keep driving and being taxi driver out in the district. That's what's crucial, and no one chooses to talk about it. They're just talking about the system, but they're not saying what it means. I think that's a little special. So the representatives of both the position and the government talk a lot about why. These are the same arguments that you always use: you can't talk about doomsday prophecies, like the Center Party does, everything isn't the same as before, the world is changing, we have to follow, we have to do that and so on. – That’s not what it’s about. It's about finding a law that makes this the best possible. You're talking about not being able to use an app if you have today's solution. The point is not whether you call, use doves, smoke signals or what you really do – the point is that something is going to happen at the other end when you order something. And that's what we're really worried about: that there's no one at the other end, that there's no one taking on the job it's being taxi driver out in the districts. To the representative Johnsen: Yes, it is such that someone drives a tractor and excavator, keeps in the pond and is in the elk, and at the same time they also drive a taxi. I think they can still do that with the system that is today. That's the way it is. But there's got to be a requirement, so there's an offer for those who absolutely need it at noon. 9 Friday morning, when they are going to the doctor and have no other offers. That is what we are concerned about in this amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1944	I have to say that this black paint from the opposition is almost the same size as the black taxi market, and it's about 1.6 billion. kr. That's a crazy amount of money. To a lot of this black paint that the opposition here comes with, like a kind of scare propaganda and fear that that will happen if this is done, I'll say that that's the situation right now -- we have a lot of those challenges. I can start with the interesting thing that the Center Party claims or fears, that there will be more dross in the cities and fewer in the districts. I read in the proposition that in the big cities there are long candidate lists to be granted permission. Yeah, there'll probably be more taxis in the big cities, and a little more balance in the market there, because that's what's the challenge with the black market: the market is there, but you don't take official, regular taxis. So there's no need to worry that there's not enough customers, you just have to get an offer that is attractive to customers and adapted to the current situation. In many districts, county councils have difficulties in occupying vacant permits. The problem for the districts today is that there are actually vacant permits, but nobody wants to drive a taxi. The challenge then is that it is a full-time job, that it must be a full-time job. It has nothing to do with being a layman's society, which both SV and the Workers' Party are trying to claim here. There's actually more flexibility and better for those who want to drive a taxi by also being able to drive in part-time. I am very pleased that the centre party can confirm that it is actually possible to drive both a tractor and a taxi, so I think there are actually more people who will see the possibility. To the representative Masud Gharahkhani of the Workers' Party: the vast majority of Norwegian farmers are part-time farmers; they have other industries in addition to being farmers. And as for the claim from SV that salary conditions are getting so bad and earnings are falling, it's a little interesting what's in the proposition: ‘According to the SSB figures, the price per km driven for the taxis between 2004 and 2015 has increased by 65 pst.’ In comparison, the consumer price index increased by about 25 pst. and the salary level by 55 pst., so the price of driving a taxi has increased significantly more than inflation and more than the overall wage increase in society. That's when the challenge is just silence, that there's too much silence. We think we're going to be able to solve that. As far as safety is concerned, for which Arne Nävra is concerned: we are also concerned, of course. Those who are serious have the opportunity to market themselves as safe, serious taxis, and are hopefully chosen by those women who unfortunately feel unsafe today. And we're tightening up the requirements for the driver. The reduction of the requirement for the copyright holder should not concern those who are going to take a taxi, it is the driver that is important, and the requirements are being reinforced by the changes we are making now.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1964	Representatives from the government parties, most recently represented by the representative Johnsen, express concern that the price of driving a taxi is increasing. It is no wonder that the price of driving a taxi increases when the government makes a tax call after a tax call for the taxi industry. For every time you enter a taxi, the VAT on the trip has increased by 50 pst. under the government of the day – from 8 p.m. as it used to be, to 12 p.m. Now, and there are plans for further growth. Before Christmas last year, in the state budget, during the night and inconspicuously for the taxi industry, there was a tax notice on a number of taxis used for, among other things. driving wheelchair users. A Volkswagen Caravelle received a fee notice of approx. NOK 235 000. A Mercedes Sprinter received a fee notice of approximately NOK 250000. The example of a taxi owner from Tøndelag who has contacted us shows that if he were to replace the four station wagons and the nine-seat that the taxi company has, it would have cost him NOK 650,000 in extra charges overnight – and then the representatives of the government parties talk about the increased cost of the taxi industry. It's not for believers. And to the touching concern of representatives of the government parties and government councils, for the future of the taxi industry: you might think that those who are in the taxi industry themselves should have gone to the torch for this proposal – or at least say that they think there were some good ideas about it. It's not just that they disagree. It's not just that they want to reject it. They go out and say it's the worst government of the time. And if the representative Myrli would not have expressed himself so clearly, I say from Stortinget's pulpit that I understand that the taxi drivers express themselves that way today. And when you talk about forward-looking solutions, what are you inviting to? It's doing the same mistakes that other countries have made. These liberalisations have led to more expensive and poorer offers and more centralisation, as it has, among other things. is quoted from the Consumer Council. The Transport Economic Institute shows in a report that further pressure on wage and working conditions in industry will occur if implemented. Therefore, it is unwise what has been proposed, therefore the matter should be referred back, and the proposal for a decision presented here today should be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1975	The representative Øystein Langholm Hansen has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1980	I drew myself before the representative Johnsen went to the pulpit, and then someone thought I was doing it because he was going to the pulpit. It's not completely untrue. It is amazing that the representative Johnsen is standing here talking about black work that thrives, when the Progress Party has the Minister of Transport, they have the Minister of Finance and they have the Minister of Justice – and nothing is being done. But are you going to have to break a line of nutrition? And that's how, Igstad and Johnsen, it's not the opposition as a black painter. It's the Council of Rules, it's the Norwegian Eco-Forum, it's the Transport Economics Institute, and actually 75 out of 80 consultation opinions are highly critical of it. In addition, we see what is happening in other countries. That should also be done from the position.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e1987	I took the floor to comment on some of the claims made by other representatives, for example. Arne Nävra, that we are not talking about pay and working conditions. Well, we're talking about pay and working conditions when we're talking about working 12 hours a day today, and on weekends they have to work to supplement so that they actually have a decent salary. It is not sustainable for the industry and not at all for each driver that we have come up in such a situation. Then we actually have to try to do something about it. The adjustments you're making are going the right way. So for safety: training drivers is an important element of the government's proposal. The county council is to handle the training, not just as a previous test of acquaintances, but actually has to be trained in how the driver can make passengers feel safe. It's actually what the taxi industry gets the most out of it because you don't feel safe in a taxi. I had hoped that the industry would do something about even internal training. Now we're going to grab hold of it by saying that the county councils are actually going to handle a proper training, so that we can sort this out. So Swearer Myrli from the Workers' Party said this is a big change. It is clear that there is some kind of conversion, but you have to meet a transport need. That's what you have to do. Then a new technology has to be introduced, modernize -- that's what you're talking about. You've been doing that all the time in different industries. I think it's the big challenge, that you're open to further education and not least to use modern technology, so for example. all driving is registered, so you can verify it and see if it is undeclared work, or if it has actually paid taxes and taxes. I have to comment on a comment that the Workers' Party has in the setting today: ‘The members of the Labour Party consider the proposal to be a knee-drop for the Left’s policy of getting rid of app companies such as Uber, Lyft and Cabify and similar business models in the Norwegian market.’ I now hope that this lobby register will actually be implemented in Stortinget. I've met Uber one time, with the representative Hans Fredrik Gruvan, 1 1⁄2 years ago. The other two companies I hardly know about. But I've taken Uber when I've been abroad, I've been driving Uber – great service they're doing. It is so nice and comfortable and safe to drive with them.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2003	It was Nils Aage Igstad who said something like that the opposition is most concerned about the future. Yes, that's right – that's exactly what we are! We're busy with the taxi offer in the future, we're busy having a taxi market that works both in cities and in rural areas. And we're concerned that we have a taxi policy that provides for the droja's important position in the overall transport service. In addition, we are concerned about the working conditions of those working in the taxi industry and in the transport sector. In the case of other sectors, even the government says that they have plans and arrangements to work for the entire permanent jobs. That's the way it has to be in the taxi industry. There is no difference between the health sector, industry or transport industry in this way. The general rule is that people have to have whole, permanent jobs. They're going to have a salary to live on. So there will be a need for extra help and others to assist in special situations, but the general rule is that people should have a regular job and have a salary to live on. Now we're at full speed into the unemployed workers' society in the taxi industry, and it's going to be more of that. And I underline – everything is not rosy today in the taxi industry, but with what is now adopted, it gets even worse. After hearing the speeches today, from the Minister of Transport and members of the government parties, I wonder, do they ever take taxis in Oslo or in other cities? On a tour of Oslo you can see that there are too many taxis. It's full – there's no room in the taxi stops. They're standing across the streets and on other public areas. There's too many dross. With what is adopted today, there will certainly be more dross in cities, and there is reason to fear that there will be fewer dross in rural areas – because there will be some coming in and foaming the flow of the tops of the market, as it is at certain times a week. They take off the market, which means that those who live on this full-time lose jobs and maybe also have to stop driving taxis. I don't understand what the government and government parties see as neither the employees of the taxi industry, represented by the Professional Transport Association nor the Transport Workers' Association, which now does not exist and from 1 June is part of the Joint Confederation, and the owners, represented by the Norwegian Taxi Association, understand, and they are completely in agreement. About a conversation with them from Buskerud, Hedmark, Oppland, Hordaland or Finnmark, they are in complete agreement. They are against the deregulation that is now taking place. They fear for the future, and it's quite right as Igstad said – we're concerned about the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2017	Arne Nävra has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2023	I can't answer what has been said here, unfortunately, but I have a few points that I wanted to shake out of my sleeve here. One is in the extension of what I started with the uncertainty of the taxis today, and how it will be: We know that the Blind Alliance, the Disabled Association and the Cooperation Forum are concerned and are opposed to most of the changes in the law. That's why it's pretty easy to see that the Christian People's Party doesn't take this in. I think it's particularly disappointing. That should be the Christian People's Party's concern. So well do we know the Christian People's Party that that point should be in their minds. Finally, a question that I hope the Dale Council can answer: Can he point to the value of having a monopoly in the districts when there is nothing to compete for – if they have no public drive? It would have been very interesting to hear about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2032	I take the word to clear up a misunderstanding. To Sverre Myrli: I have not realized that you are concerned about the future. What I said was that you seem to know more about the future than you know about the present, and that's something quite different. Otherwise, I would also like to say to Nävra: Well, public procurement is the backbone of the taxi industry – one of the backbones, perhaps the most important one in the districts. That's one of the reasons why they have to be organized. It's not a county municipality in the country that's going to buy services of individual dross, they're going to deal with the associations of dross that are going to be the main element in the future. It will not be the way that states buy one service. It's about big money, and then you go to the most serious, and there's actually also a competition, because there's more companies going to do it. So it'll be a very important part of the future for the taxis. Following the hearings, the State amended its proposal as to who would administer the exclusive right. It was in the county municipalities. The county councils are really professional, they are the ones who currently have the need test of the permits, they are the ones who order the public transport. We can say that what you might get better interaction about is health transport, because there are health companies that have basically run their own race. Coordinating the transportation of orders I think is important for the future. The future lies in getting a more efficient taxi transport. Those who are currently surging in the streets in the hope of getting passengers will be able to languish around, but they will not get any passengers, for those who are going to take a taxi are concerned with safety, and then they will take a taxi that has a rating, and as they see is a taxi. Therefore, there will be a transitional phase – perhaps a few more – but it will very quickly become a more organised taxi transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2043	The representative Tor André Johnsen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2048	I also have a small confession, like Jon Gunnes: I actually drove with Uber, only once, but it also worked well. I drove with it in the United States and had a good experience with it. To Sverre Myrli, about Oslo: we need a good reason to take a taxi, so I don't take that very much taxi, I don't. But the times I take a taxi, I drive with Oslo Taxi, and then I am very happy – good service, good quality. That's what's a little bit of the point here: those who are good, those who are good, will be fine, and the unprofessional will probably be gone. To the Central Party: It is a bit special to get criticism that we have introduced VAT when the figures I referred to, with a large increase in the cost per kilometre of driving by taxi, were from 2004 to 2015. The small adjustments to the VAT were subsequently made, from 2016 to 2018. So sorry, they can't have that joy. It is probably not we who have contributed to the increase in the price of driving a taxi. To the Workers' Party, when it comes to black work: we actually think the changes we're making will lead to less black work. It's important, because it's been an increase.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2059	To the representative Johnsen, it is quite right that taxi prices have also increased in the past. Then the question is, when the taxi prices have increased in the past, and there is a recognition of the government parties, what does it make sense to do? Does it make sense to increase the fees for driving a taxi? Or is it perhaps wise to reduce them, or at least not increase them? It is a fact that taxes on driving taxis are increased. The tax on driving taxi is increased by 50 pst. under the government of the day. At the top of it comes a tax notice for some specific car models that are very important for taxi drivers in this country when they are transporting disabled people. It came into the state budget last year and is to be introduced at a few weeks' notice. The center part is completely for us to have a technology shift, to bring in new cars and new solutions within the car park, but it has to be done on schedule. When there are overnight stays and there are no good alternatives available, there will only be a pure tax call that will either have to be cancelled by a taxi company because they do not find reason to continue, or that they will roll over the costs to their customers. Of course, there's a logical context here. The tax policy that the government is pursuing facilitates that it becomes demanding for people in their everyday lives. So to the representative Gunnes, who felt offended because someone had shown that the Left was occupied by Uber, had promoted Uber. No reference was made to the representative of Gunnes in that remark. However, the former Oslo Transport Agency of the Left has acknowledged not only Uber’s use abroad but also Uber’s use in Norway, and has called for changes to the legislation, so that Uber can be brought back into Norway. But I can see the representative Gunnes, and since the comment only refers to the Left, I think it's a good reason not to go into that comment. Other parties, including, inter alia: The representative Nordby Lunde has gone further by deliberately encouraging people to use a company that is illegal, to use it as a breakaway to change the law so that they get the company back to Norway. I really hope that we can get a new direction on the taxi policy in this country, which both facilitates that it will be viable for at least those who will drive taxis, and facilitates that we will have taxis everywhere in Norway. That is not the case with this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2070	The representative Siv Mossleth has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2075	I just want to make some clarifications. The last government platform said that VAT rates should be coordinated, and in the case of passenger transport, VAT should be increased. On 15 May, the proposal to increase VAT on passenger transport came into force. VAT is proposed to increase from 12 pst. up to 23-25 pst. That is to say, this government has already doubled VAT, and now the proposal for a further doubling of VAT is coming. This means that it will be more expensive for customers, and worse, more expensive and more difficult for the taxi industry to operate. It was a clear statement to the representative Johnsen's assertions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2080	The representative Bengt Fasterale has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2085	To the representative Igstad, who is afraid that the county council will not order service from a single driver because they are not united in some company: yes, I am afraid so too. That may be a bit of the point of them out in the districts today who have permission. Many of those who have permission have competence, they have equipment and they have experience. There are different types of jobs taxis do today. They may have a vehicle that can drive a wheelchair user, and they have a maxitaxi that can solve a task where more than one is to be carried. That's what's the problem when this regulation disappears. The measures proposed by the law in the individual segment will only affect individual journeys out of actual circumstances. That's exactly what we're worried about, too.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2090	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2106	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2115	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights for their good cooperation. Although it is not a unanimous committee that proposes a decision on the matter, it is likely that the Committee will agree on most of the direction presented here. The matter has received a lot of attention from the interested parties. Two consultation rounds have been carried out and a total of 135 consultation replies have been received. The proposed legislation is based on NOU 2018: 4 Sjöveien go on. The government has also submitted a plug-in to Prop. 86 L – Prop 108 L. In addition, the government explains that it has been revealed that in individual provisions of the Prop bill. 86 L is not prevented from continuing with some points in the current right. This concerns the Board of Appeal for individual decisions taken by the Municipality, the authorisation authority for measures which may affect defence and preparedness interests, and the basis for an infringement fee. In addition, the government proposes changes as a result of new border legislation. The legislative proposal involves the restructuring and simplification of the existing law, as well as a number of substantive changes. In the proposal for a new law, shared responsibility and authority for the waters between municipalities and states are continued. A specific authorisation is proposed to empower municipalities to regulate, inter alia: anchoring in its own sea area, but the regulations shall be approved by the Ministry. The responsibility and authority of navigation facilities and the responsibility for the remediation of the waters are proposed to the State as a whole. This will in principle result in a cost shift from municipality to state. It also provides for the Ministry to be empowered to regulate navigation in the waters and the municipalities to regulate the movement of recreational craft in their own sea area. Municipal voyage regulations for recreational craft will no longer be subject to approval by the Coastal Works. The coastal community currently spends a lot of resources on these approvals, and a change will lead to savings in the area. Today's law deals with three types of charges: coast charges, security charges and call charges. The proposal for a new law removes the possibility of levying coastal charges, given that this has been a dwindling provision since the closure of the coastal charge in 2013 as part of efforts to strengthen the competitiveness of maritime transport. Furthermore, it is proposed that a minor change be made to the provision for a safety charge by making the owner of the ship also responsible for the payment of the fee. It is therefore proposed that, in view of the fact that the municipalities will continue to carry out their tasks in the waters, the call fee should be continued under the name ‘water tax’. The basis for levying a water tax is reduced as a result of the proposal that the State assumes full responsibility for improvements in the waters. The provision is designed to clarify the tasks and measures that the municipality can finance through the levy and it will continue to be such that this levy is calculated on the basis of the principle of self-sufficiency. The proposal for a law allows for values to be shared out from port operations if adequate funds are allocated to proper port operations. The proposal provides for sound capital for municipally owned ports so that the port can maintain its position as an important infrastructure for maritime transport. In practice, it is assumed that for most ports, the requirement of sound equity would imply little or no change in relation to the current provision, since there is no room for dividends or other distribution from the port activity either today. However, for some of the largest ports with a high level of port capital, dividends may be available. Dividend access may also provide incentives for efficient port operations and active and sound ownership management. Municipalities will also be given incentives to sell properties that have a high value for alternative uses. Disposal of land could bring a net gain that could both raise capital for alternative port areas, generate surpluses that can be extracted and used for other tasks the municipality might have, and contribute to environmentally friendly urban and land development. It is proposed to introduce an infringement fee in response to minor infringements of the provisions laid down in or in compliance with the Port and Water Law. This could increase the effectiveness of regulatory enforcement and thus contribute to a reduction in the cost to the State. The threshold for the granting of an infringement fee is lower compared to the current situation. This may result in more than one response to the current law. The proposal for a new law does not continue to require adequate standards for port installations and discharges used in the operation of the port. This is because these types of requirements and regulations fall within the scope of the Planning and Building Act and the Working Environment Act. As a consequence, municipalities will no longer be subject to the port and water law. As mentioned at the outset, the Committee has worked well on the matter and initially agrees on most of the proposed legislation. However, an overall committee was not entirely satisfied with the government’s proposed legislative text on port capital, since it was not as clear as the Port Law Committee’s draft legislative text. An overall committee considers it important to ensure appropriate areas and a robust and long-term economy if ports are to contribute to achieving the transport policy objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2138	The Workers' Party is committed to developing and using the ports of our long-term country for value creation and business organisation. Important activities are carried out along our coast, and ports are necessary for all these different activities to take place. We need the port network to connect from north to south, and business needs a good and adapted infrastructure, which is also regulated to serve the industries. Therefore, when revising the Ports Act, it is important that you aim to adapt it to those who use our ports. The Law on Port and Water shall regulate the waters, ensure accessibility, adapt to technological developments and take into account climate and environmental conditions. In recent years we have experienced a ripple in the battery operation of boats and ferries. This development also continues in other fields related to emissions-free operations. This means building infrastructure related to charging batteries and counting ships at berth on shore-side electricity. The Workers' Party has made several proposals on this, and we believe it is important that it is included. The size has the ambition that more goods will pass from road to sea. It is therefore very disappointing that the government of the RNB is proposing to remove all the funds for this measure, thereby deliberately failing to comply with the decision of the Stortinge, which clearly gives the government marshalling to take action to increase the transfer of goods from road to sea. The Labour Party is involved in a proposal asking the government to return to the Stortinget with actions during 2019. The working party believes that this cut in RNB shows that the government does not take the maritime industries seriously and does not facilitate the achievement of the stated goal of increased transfer. The major discussion relating to the revision of the Port and Water Water Act has been on whether the owners of the public ports, the municipalities, could benefit from port capital. It has not been possible under the previous law. The size of port capital varies greatly. The consultation opinions, which are skeptical of the fact that the municipalities were to withdraw capital from the ports, considered that the ports had to manage this capital themselves, for the operation and development of the ports. Furthermore, many have feared that the municipalities would have to drain the ports of capital. The Labour Party does not share this concern, but we have been quite clear that if the municipalities are to be allowed to benefit, it must be regulated in such a way as to ensure sufficient financial resources for operation, maintenance and further development. For ports, adequate space is a prerequisite for the development and operation of a port. The proposal that came from the government was, in fact, a release that could have led to large-scale bottling of port capital. I will give tribute to the Committee and the Advocate-General, who have restricted this attempt by the government to liberalise port capital. The working party believes that we should tighten up further, cf. our and SV's proposal to amend § 32, but the proposal contained in the majority of the committee is significantly better than the government would have liked. Nevertheless, the majority could not contribute to securing the resources available to ports for further development in the future and to securing the area. Ports have many important roles in society, and a prerequisite for the public ports to play their social role is that they have a solid economy and relevant land and property. The proposal for a new port and water law proposes that the State be fully responsible for the main link and image. This fully supports the Work Party. Not least is the safety-related safety-related safety at sea. The Labour Act is incorporated, and the Labour Party agrees. We are recording a tearing development related to technology and autonomy, including in maritime transport. This means that Norwegian ports need to adapt to autonomy and invest in technology and skills. Here the authorities must be careful and, where appropriate, adapt the legislation to new developments. Norway is a proud port, and we use the sea for fisheries, for raising seafood, for freight cargo, for supply and cargo ships, and for oil and gas extraction, to mention something. And for all these industries to evolve optimally, efficient and functional ports are required throughout the country. I'm addressing the suggestions the Workers' Party is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2170	The representative of Ingarill Olsen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2175	There is a lot of exciting happening in Norwegian ports and waters. When we look back in 10 to 20 years on how Norway was able to become a renewable and green nation, ports will be central. But in order for development to move in the right direction, it is important that we renew ourselves as we live. Today it is a little over ten years since the law on ports and waters was revised. In the proposal on which it is based, municipalities will continue to be responsible in their own maritime area, and the State will be responsible for the principal and the principal image. At the same time, the proposal to empower the Ministry to regulate the movement of waters, but in the interests of local democracy, the Government proposes that municipalities be given authority to regulate the movement of recreational craft in their own maritime area. The call fee is continued, but changes the name of the water charge. Since the country already has the heaviest investments in the maritime area, a significant cost shift between the country and the municipality is not expected. Furthermore, it is proposed that a minor change be made to the provision for a safety charge by making the owner of the ship also responsible for the payment of the fee. Previously, this applies to shipowners and agents. The proposal confronts the owner of the ship with a joint responsibility they have not previously had. Several hearing bodies have been concerned with the regulation of port capital. The right believes that an active ownership contributes to providing efficient and good services. As a general rule, if there is sufficient funds after distribution for the proper operation and maintenance of the port, it should be possible to distribute dividends from port activities. At the same time, it is important that ports have a dividend strategy that ensures the necessary development in a long-term perspective. The right considers, therefore, that the Committee’s proposal to clarify the legal text so that it becomes clear that funds should also be allocated to investments directly linked to the provision of services is a wise approach. The Law on Ports and Waterways matters to many. The proposal for a new port and water law embraces wider than maritime transport and port industries, facilitates better port operation and also maintains commercial interests and other groups of users of the waters.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2190	The Law on Ports and Waters is important for the port of Norway, so there is a reason to be satisfied with very many elements in this case and to promote it and to revise the law. I will, in fact, also agree with the confidence of the rapporteur-in-Office of the Council, Mr Olsen. A pilot from Northern Ireland must be the right representative to keep an eye on the law on ports and waters. The centre party agrees that the Los Law is being transposed into the new Port and Water Law. We are also pleased that legal barriers to autonomous coastal sailing are being removed. But what concerns us in the bill is that the opportunity to take dividends from ports can lead to a worse development in ports than what is optimal for maritime transport. The aim of increasing maritime transport is important for the Centre Party. The lake is there, ready to be broken and salted, and more maritime transport leads to fewer dangerous vehicle trains on the roads. This concern for the withdrawal of port capital is the reason why the Centre Party has promoted its own proposal, proposal No. 5, that port capital from ordinary port operations cannot be used for purposes other than port activities, including operations, maintenance, improvement, expansion and development. I'm dealing with that proposal. Secondly, we shall vote in favour of proposal No. 4 from the Workers' Party and SV. The centre party believes that maritime transport is environmentally friendly and should be used to an even greater extent than it is today, and it can be even more environmentally friendly if this transport is better facilitated. Here we believe that the proposals for the government parties do not go far enough. We believe that shore-side electricity and charging power must be used and that municipal authorities must be able to impose environmental requirements on ships to call on. The port of Norway has many concerns and ports are very important for the preparedness of Norway. This is why the Senterpartiet wants to clarify the importance of port preparedness along the coast. It is important that this consideration is also reflected in the law, and that is also mentioned there.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2203	The representative Siv Mossleth has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2208	It's good exercise for a one-man fraction with all these matters of transport! First of all, it is this with the management of port capital that has been the big question and the big point in this case. I record that the government parties in the hall and the opposition have approached each other during this committee process, and that is to the extent that the two proposals for this are quite similar now, and then we can be sure of a rather united attitude towards the disposal of port capital – on the one hand and on the other hand, etc. – with limitations. But there are a few things I wanted to record, as no one else has mentioned anything particularly about yet, and it concerns matters of the green valuer. One is the call for ships that pollute. We record that the government put forward proposals that would make it possible to set requirements if there are pollutions in a local situation, and that is very good. It can be compared a little to the problem of urban waste-time, where there are often inversions, and it is health-threatening to a floating city that enters a city that way. But then there were some shortcomings. They did not include in this proposal that the municipality should be able to impose conditions on calls, even outside the precarious situations, because in sum it is clear that there will be a lot of emissions from these ships entering Norwegian ports. We have received enquiries from several teams, some of us, we have received an opinion both from Bergen and from Oslo regarding the possibilities to require the boats, among others. shall be equipped with shore-side electricity connections. It is quite an essential point that one has an instrument for the more forward-looking municipalities – Bergen is one of them, Oslo is another, and Kristiansand has also asked for such an opportunity. Then it's a shame we don't put it into the law, I think it's a very bad thing. If we set a good framework for zero emissions – we can set a year for my part – then the industry will focus on that. It's what's called behavioural change, whether it's for individuals or industries, that it adapts. But we have to have tools, we have to have the opportunity, and I have faith that in such cases the municipalities will not be unreasonable. That is the background to the proposal that we have made, of which SV is part. So there's another point that I want to mention, and that's that there's nothing going on around this that many fjords now have become big recreational fjords. There's a lot of leisure boats on several fjords, it's enough to mention Oslofjorden. I mention in the setting that there are now about 200,000 canoes and kayaks here in the country, and many of these kayaks are seagoing, you paddle on the sea. And then we've got a pretty big haircut, as many may know, from personal watercraft. And then we have the even softer traffickers out there -- it could be them on sailboards and others -- there's a lot of actors that have to be called'soft road users' on the sea. This is not addressed satisfactorily in this draft, and I think it is gross. That is why SV wants this to be incorporated into the law, and that we ask for an addition to Section 1 of the law, which ‘ensures that the law also promotes the safety and well-being of users of recreational craft and other users of ports and waters’, as it says, ‘and ensure that environmental values are taken into account along the coast’. The last sentence of course applies to many disturbances in important natural areas in our feathers. With that, I'll take up the suggestions from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2225	The representative Arne Nävra has addressed the proposals to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2230	It is quite obvious that there has been port capital and perhaps property development – which has been affected – linked to port activities, which have at least the most occupied left, in view of the conversion of this new port and water law. The slogan, i.e. the representative Dagfinn Henrik Olsen, who is also the case rapporteur, has shown the importance of both the level of fees and the responsibility for the different things. So I want to focus most on port capital. We are now in a city, Oslo, which had to be exempted from the Port and Water Law in order to develop its port. I don't think anyone regrets it being developed today. There's some boating, but there's also a lot of experiences, culture and great settlements along the port. At the same time, the desire to have a modern port was taken care of. They moved it a little further into the fjord and multiplied the volume and got a very efficient port. It has therefore been a very effective co-operation with a view to using former port areas for other purposes. Several cities in Norway have the same thinking. The entire transport and communication committee was in Agder and was told how Kristiansand had intended to use its port area for a completely different purpose. We got a good introduction to it. I know that Trondheim has the same debate. It is important that the owners of these fantastic fine harbour areas dispose of them themselves. This also applies to dividend policy. I know Trondheim Port very well. That's 90 million. kr per year. 60 million. kr of them are from property, $12 million. kr from parking and approx. Twenty million. kr from the port operation itself. Then you realize that the owner has a need to make dividends, when you have such a high income on your property. I am therefore surprised that the Central Party is now opposed to the proposal that is being promoted today. They're afraid you don't want to spend the money for the right purpose. What about the Municipal Self-Government, the Center Party? Aren't you really the spokesmen for that in this room? But you still won't be able to take advantage of the capital you earn on things other than port operations, for the good of a municipality. I think we'll see that the money will be spent in a very nice way, and not least that the properties will be developed in a nice way, with the proposal that exists today. With regard to the proposals for electrification of particularly port operations, which have been discussed by many, the Left very much agrees. We have a tool today: Enova. They're involved in financing shore-side electricity. Several cities have got it. When the coast route was on offer, we made clear demands for it to be cleaner, and today we are building new fast-riding ships – as I call them – which at least have the opportunity to land on land with shore-side electricity. Maybe they also have the opportunity to go the first meters in and out of port with battery power. I think it will be a very good development within this. I look forward to it being further developed. SV is probably quite right that we might have to be even more stringent with years and things. We are looking forward to the fact that, on the part of Stortinget, one will be even more demanding in its expectations.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2248	The legislation that regulates traffic at sea should help us to achieve our transport policy objectives. Equally important is the implementation of policies in this area through the use of targeted instruments to achieve our climate and environmental policy objectives. With a strong growing pressure on sea areas, it is important that new legislation in this area, as well as emphasising maritime transport, also interacts with the Law on Planning and Building. The rapporteur has presented in a very good manner the changes proposed by new legislation in this area. I want to focus on the wording related to port capital. Today's port and water law prohibits the owners of the municipal ports from making dividends for purposes other than port activities. Most of the revenue, especially in the large ports, is today derived from property activities and not from port charges. Port companies currently hold large values and properties that are attractive to other developments, and many municipalities want access to re-regulation and sales. On the one hand, the possibility of realising port capital could provide municipalities as owners with an opportunity to set up ports in more suitable places. But on the other hand, there are many municipal politicians – and we have probably been among them ourselves, several of us sitting in this room – who want dividends from the port fund to other municipal operational and welfare tasks. The result may be that the very objectives of port activities, the organisation of maritime transport infrastructure and long-term investment can be harmful. On the part of the Christian People's Party, it has been important that the desire for some liberalisation of today's port capital rules remains subject to clear rules of protection. In our view, there is a clear need to limit the ability to market municipal operations with dividends from port capital. That is why the Christian People's Party has supported the majority in the polling position in this case. The Christian People's Party is against full liberalisation. It is therefore important, in our view, that clear criteria should be established, as proposed here, to ensure that ports are evaluated more widely in the short and long term before dividends can be distributed. In our view, the proposal, as it exists from the majority of the committee in the vote, provides these reasons in a satisfactory way. It emphasises that there should be sufficient resources left for the proper operation and maintenance of ports, but also that sufficient resources should be allocated to investments related to the provision of services to ships, freight and passenger handling. The Christian People's Party therefore supports the majority voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2259	Along the Norwegian coast there is enormous value creation, construction and opportunities for Norwegian business not only to keep us working today, but to create new ones for the future. For the government, investment in marine and coastal industries is an important priority. At the same time, the transport needs and means of transport we have along our coastline are not sufficiently exploited. If we are to be politically honest with ourselves, for a very long time, across governments, it has been a goal to get more goods transferred, for example. from road to sea. But the results have probably – even across governments – been like that. In other words, there has been too much distance between the objectives of the policy for the transfer of goods, and the laws and regulations we have had, which can make it possible for us to succeed. This bill has several aspects. Many of them have been named by others, and I'm not going in on all of them. I also experience some of them as uncontroversial and with a broad connection to Stortinget. I still want to use a few words in two areas in particular. One is the distribution of responsibilities and authority between the state and the municipality, in which we now propose to clean up a little bit. In other words, the starting point is to establish a more harmonised regulatory framework for maritime transport that goes along the coast, while at the same time taking care of local needs, in a long-term country such as Norway, for some individual adaptation, for example. at the speed limit of the leisure fleet – i.e. both careful regulation for business and local freedom of action in order to regulate as best as possible locally. Another issue that has been more debated, relates to port capital and access to dividends. If it had been the number of ports, it was because if we had been happy with the shipment of goods, much more of our transport had gone by the sea. There is primarily no lack of port infrastructure. In many cases, a question can be asked whether too much investment is made in too many places to make it pay to get volume there at all. The change in the law that we are now proposing, namely that there is initially access to yields from port capital, but that one can protect it in order to meet the operating needs and investment needs of what is related to port, that owners can consolidate, that they can free up port space and develop it into other things where it is profitable, and that they can help to ensure that investment agencies that are left in ports, also collect larger volumes, which will allow us to get profitability in freight transport. That's what determines whether we're going to succeed in the future: whether we're actually willing to take the new steps that need to be able to move over goods. It is not difficult to have political ambitions, but it has proved difficult to move sufficient volumes, for example. from road to sea. I am quite honest that it is not certain that all of this will solve all the potential for freight transmission, but I believe this is important steps on the road to get adequate investment, freight concentration, a frequency that allows more people to choose the sea route. And we know – we can only see Europe – that there are some major ports that are really crucial to the significance of maritime transport across the continent. Norway's largest port is still Gothenburg, paradoxically enough. It requires completely different means of action from those we normally had, whether we are really going from political ambitions on the transfer of goods to political results on it. I think the Storting today is taking important steps on the road there because one takes care of the needs of maritime transport, while at the same time maintaining local self-determination for the leisure fleet. I think it's opening up so that the local politicians, local authorities, can make independent choices as to whether it makes sense to develop their harbour area today and rather be involved in a joint port project with neighbouring municipalities to collect the volume of goods in the region. These are new, important steps on the road that I hope will help to solve the challenges we are actually facing if we are to move more goods from road to sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2282	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2287	The debate has been largely about port capital and the taking of dividends from port capital. The government's proposals could initially have been a release, and it has been very exemplary in tightening up. If we look at the two proposals that are available, from among others. The working party and that of the majority of the committee are a slight difference. The Labour Party has wanted us to bring with it what is related to development, that is, the future, and that new plants and land should be secured. There was no government fraction on it, while they have a strong tightening. Then I wonder: is the Council of State satisfied that his own in committee has considerably tightened up his proposals? And wouldn't it have been better if we could have had a law that had an even wider majority behind us in the case of § 32?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2296	And then finally, the answer is definitely yes. It would be even better if the Workers' Party, if they think it's such a small difference, actually join the plurality that's here, as a pretext for us to dissolve in the tight regulation we've had on port capital – which has made it impossible for owners to raise dividends and make reasonable investments, either a reinvest in their ports to collect the volume, or, for example, in the case of them. urban development, which Gunnes’ representative was concerned that one has done e.g. in Oslo. So if the Labour Party is busy with broad support for a proposal where they say there is minimal difference, they are invited to vote in favour of the proposal from the plural. Then they can contribute to that plurality. But I mean that much of what is now – quite rightly – clarified by the Committee in Section 32, is also what is meant by the purpose of the law. That is why I experience the changes that the Committee has made here, as completely manageable, because the objective of the laws initially takes care of this concern – which I have also done well in my reply to the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2307	In the post from the Council of State he also talked about this with goods from road to sea. All the funds contained in the 2019 budget have been removed from the RNB national budget, which is extremely negative and which cannot lead us to achieve that goal. If there is a lack of action and ideas in the Ministry of Transport that can get more goods across from road to sea, I can help to refer to the municipalities of Bodø, Tromsø and Lødingen, which have been working on getting a North Norway line at sea. There has been extensive work, as the actors knew that these were funds that would last three years. Now the funds are gone, and the plans for this offer seem to be stranding. Can the Council of State envisage changing that and contribute to, among other things, The North Norway line at sea is being realized, so that we can achieve the goal of getting more goods across from road to sea?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2314	I also hope that we in North Norway can also get solutions to help us get goods transferred from road to sea. The representative can be absolutely sure of that. The changes made in the revised national budget were therefore about budgeting realistically in the state. I'm happy that the government does that. That means that if there are no applications that really qualify for a bonus, we do not pay it out, and we do not allow the money either. That's how Stortinget has said that the government is going to act in the budget room, and so are we. And then we've done a bunch of other things, e.g. in the State budget for this year, with the proposal to set up a three-year scheme for efficient and environmentally friendly ports. It's basically that we're now testing different ways of aligning the back-up arrangements, in order to really be happy with the transfer of goods. The working party also has a family in the blind. We look at that for the last eight years they've been in government. They didn't get any results. Now we're trying different ways to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2323	Everyone has now registered that there is a proposal to tighten up the legislative proposal to Section 32 on when benefits from port activities can be distributed. The Working Party and SV agree on proposal No. 4, and the government parties have their own clarification in particular and promote their own proposal for Section 32. Can the Council of State explain the difference between the Workers' Party and the SV's proposals and the Government's proposals for decisions?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2330	I feel that the government party's proposal largely takes care of what I was also busy with when we put forward this bill, and which I meant was in the law's remit, as I have also replied to the committee. It's about what we do when we see capital, when we shield capital from exchange. What we do when we screen capital is that we take from the owners the ability to retrieve exchange from capital they themselves have been involved in investing. When we take away the owners of that ability, we have to define the purpose for which we give it. This is why we have said operations, maintenance and investment in what is open-ended port-related activity. I feel that the proposal from the majority takes care of it. That is what I see in the government's original proposals in the purpose section. And if it is that no one else sees the difference between that and the Workers' Party and the SV propose, I suggest that the Stortinget gather around the government party for its proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2337	Instead, the Council of State said there was a minimal difference, and now the difference is so small that he really asks the Stortinge to gather on one of the proposals. I find it strange that the government parties could not gather about the Workers' Party and the SV's proposal, because it was a long time before the other was promoted. I'm not going to go on exactly that. I would like to continue a little bit on the matter raised by the representative, Mr Olsen, about the subsidy scheme to get goods across by sea. I understood it almost so that the Council of State said that the shipping company that wants to start a North Norway line submitted an application that did not qualify for a grant. Can it really be true?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2344	First of all, I didn't say how I evaluated the proposal from the Labour Party and SV. I referred to how Mr Olsen's representative looked at the difference between the two proposals. If the opposition thinks there's such a small difference, the invitation is sent to voice its plural proposal for the government party. It's a nice opportunity if you want to contribute to it, but you don't want the Center Party. They want to deny local politicians access to capital with their proposals, so we'll see how the opposition handles it. I do not process individual cases. Fortunately, the Storting has others to trust when it comes to it, than the signatures. At the same time, when we make up the revised national budget, we look at incoming applications, on allocated funds based on the deadline for applying, and then we adjust the budget to the actual amount that is applied for and that is paid. What I mean is the right way to stick to this in budgetary terms, and then we get to take other issues when they have to arise.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2352	I must ask the Minister for Transport to give a proper answer to the questions he receives during the change of line. Da Ingalill Olsen asked him questions, the Minister for Transport replied that the Workers' Party could vote for the Government's proposals. That is what the Minister for Transport should be too good to respond to. The truth is that the Workers' Party presented its proposal to the Committee long before the government parties rejected the government's wording and came up with their own wording. In fact, it came so late that we had to postpone the deadlines we had agreed on in the committee. That is the truth, and then the Minister of Transport is standing here and saying that the Workers' Party can vote in favour of the proposals of the government parties. Once the government parties felt that the government's proposal was not good enough, why could they not agree on the proposal put forward by the Labour Party, which has been endorsed by the Swedish Government? My question to the Minister for Transport is: why do the government parties not want to support the proposal put forward by the Labour Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2363	I think the Workers' Party's proposal goes further in protecting capital for exchange than what was in the government's proposal for the purpose of the law, and I find that the wording that has multiples in the committee is more precise in delimitation, which makes it easier to manage, and which makes it clearer to the owners when it comes to what kind of investment they can expect that one can screen the capital for exchange. I mean, it's a more precise formulation of the delimitation that's taken into account in the purpose of the law. I think it's a better proposal, so I allowed myself to encourage the Workers' Party – if they thought it was such a minimal difference – to vote for the best proposal, and I still intend to allow myself to encourage the Workers' Party. When they think there is so little material difference between the two proposals, they should be voiced for the best of the two.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2368	I'm not going to continue with the little tile nail shop that's been in the last row change, but I'm going to point out what I took in my introduction to the pulpit, and that's the field where the council and the department haven't gone into. This applies to all traffic on seagoing pleasure boats. There is one point that several organisations have been concerned about. I refer to that in the setting as well. These are the opinions of, among others: Nature Conservation Association, Norsk Ornitologisk Association, Oslofjordens Freiluftsrådet and Norsk Freiluftsliv till NOU-en. There have also been no meetings with these organisations, which count a whole bunch of members and are very representative of the outdoor life of the fjord. Does the Council of State see that there is never such a small hole in the proposal in this field – that there is a shortage, and that these are issues that he has to come back to at some point?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2373	No, initially I think that the bill we have delivered is well balanced between different considerations. It takes care of maritime transport, it takes care of the interests of municipalities and it also allows them to find appropriate ways for people in coastal areas to contribute to recreation and outdoor life. I think these proposals are balanced and take up all these concerns. Therefore, I think it is sufficient that a now can adopt this port and color law as proposed by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2378	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2385	First of all, I must thank you for all the praiseworthy words. It's almost so you're going to be plagued with the night sleep. I would now like to add some comments to the Committee's proposal to the third paragraph of Section 32 and other comments. The majority have focused on a legal requirement that adequate funds be allocated to operating, maintaining and future investments in ports – and so on – directly related to the production of services aimed at vessels, freight and passenger handling. Here I believe that the difference between the proposals that have been put forward lies. The proposal that was debated a little earlier here, from the Labour Party, is probably further fanning, too, in my perspective. The majority have also focused on the fact that, in the interests of safety, ports set up to monitor anchorages associated with ports are allowed to charge for such a service through their own regulations. However, a requirement is made for the Ministry to approve such monitoring before a person may charge for the service. Finally, it is probably right to say that there are some municipalities, users and organisations that are not quite satisfied, because they have not been fully consulted, but I think most people agree that the proposal for port and water law is a right course set. It is enough for all navigators to have to correct the course along the way in order to arrive at the right place – it may also be with this port and water law once it has been settled. It has also been mentioned in the debate on the reduction of RNB and the removal of the incentive system for maritime transport. Since 2012–2013, under another government, I have been very concerned that an incentive system had to be set up between sea and road in order to maintain boat transport between Bodø and Alta, what is now called the North Norway line. It may also be said that this scheme should be evaluated, but the testing scheme will continue until 2019. But it is also right to say that the scheme has probably not been fully implemented, given that there are funds that have been set aside in previous years, which have not been used. For 2019, you're assuming you're going to spend $40 million. kr. So I'm also concerned about finding a good arrangement for the North Norway line and also the maritime transport and incentive system in the future. Finally, in the event of an incurrency, the word «om» has entered the wrong place in the second paragraph of Section 52. It shall read: ‘ Act of 15 August 2014 No. 61 on the ransom system." I ask that this be corrected. [[...]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2402	Whether or not the word ‘om’ is quoted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2407	The last clarification I think even a total magnification can join. Norway is a coastal and maritime nation. If we are to succeed in our important work of developing Norway as an even better coastal and maritime nation, we must have good and safe ports and fairways. It's an explicit measure of a unanimous growth, I think, that it's desirable to get more goods off the road to the sea, and that a greater part of the passenger traffic should take place at sea. We have great opportunities, but it also demands that we have a good and effective law. The changes we are now making in the law are a good contribution in this way. The debate has largely concerned the ability of municipalities to benefit from ports. Let me say that it doesn't have to be left as an impression that the ports are dealing with completely different things from what they're really going to do. Ports in Norway do a very good job, and they mainly do what they do; they do port operations. Let's just make it clear. At the same time, it is not to hide that the Committee has received much feedback when we have been travelling or have had hearings or meetings with people engaged in port issues, that some of our ports are in an economic situation with great capital, and that, at least in the opinion of someone, they are moving on to things that may be a little on the edge of what we traditionally perceive as port activities, to say it in a nice way. We have to balance where there are great values in the ports, which are the funds of the community, for the ports should not be a state in the state or a municipality in the municipality that is doing its things. Of course, the Community's resources must be managed in the best possible way. But neither can it be that the municipalities can manage and manage port capital at their discretion and use it as they please. That is why we believe that what is now proposed is largely a good framework, but we got very clear feedback from many stakeholder organisations, shipping companies and organisations working on port and maritime issues, saying that what was from the government was too liberal. Therefore, the Workers' Party came up with its proposal to tighten something up on the possibility of taking dividends from the ports.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2420	The big discussion was linked to port capital, and there were strong reactions to the government’s proposal from the actors using Norwegian ports. There were broad feedbacks that there was a need to tighten up, and there was a real fear that the capital could be tapped. The Committee has tightened up that proposal. I think that's a good craft. That's good. You had the starting point of the Workers' Party for that, because we suggested it. As Sverre Myrli said in his reply, it was there, and the committee asked for a postponement. We hoped that we would get a broad agreement attached to Section 32. We've been concerned that there's going to be funds. In addition to the things proposed by the government, there should be funds for the further development of Norwegian ports. It's about the future and future development. There shall be funds for new installations and areas. It's also about the future. It's quite amazing that government parties can't be part of it. The minister has replied that one believes it is going further in protecting the capital. So protecting capital to have money for development and new facilities is going too far. We're monitoring, we're proposing to screen, because that's what the hearing statements have been about. We should notice that the difference in these things is not really big, but that the majority will not protect the capital for the area and development. I think it is very strange, and I think that in fact actors in Norwegian ports will also think so.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2429	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2445	At the request of the Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that – within the allocated speaking time – up to six rows of replies are given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2454	The post-carrying of letters has fallen dramatically in recent years. The amount has dropped by 65 pst. from 1999 and was expected to decrease by a further 60 pst. towards 2025. But now it falls even faster than the forecasts added a short time ago. The amount of mail that sinks are letters to households and businesses. Therefore, in the legislative proposal, the government proposes to reduce the universal day requirement from five days a week to two days a day. But the Post has another contribution, which is also very important for society. The company distributes newspapers in those areas of the country where the newspapers themselves do not have their own distribution. A halving of distribution days to two days each leads to problems for this newspaper distribution. This concerns the Working Party. 15 pst. by subscribers, about 173 000 in total, the newspapers are delivered through the Post Office. The Workers' Party is concerned with the contribution of newspapers to the public discussion and debate, as well as their contribution to both education and education. These subscribers live in areas where it is expensive to expand good enough broadband coverage to households and businesses so that they can access digital newspapers. We have spent much more on our alternative budgets for such expansions of broadband in recent years than the government has done. We've put in 500 million. NOK, while the government has spent 200 million after landfilling. kr. The advertising revenue of newspapers largely finances the publications, and there is considerable uncertainty about the size of these revenues as to whether it becomes an irregular publication, as set out in the original proposal. Now, fortunately, the position opens so that it can be distributed the newspapers the days the post does not deliver. That's a positive change. As we see the unreasonable fact that the Post would run around with minimal mail in the cities, we in the Workers' Party took good time before we decided what to do, and what to do in this case. We're not very worried about the mail delivery. Whether people get the letter a Wednesday or a Thursday, is not so crucial, but the weakened role of the newspapers worries us. That is why we are now moving towards a reduction until there is sufficient broadband coverage in households across the country. With the government's pace, there will be too many pig-grown strokes that will be hanging after, for example. in the wife, where a lot of areas are without broadband and without post-transport, and where there are eight hours to Post in the store. That's not good enough. It was also claimed from the position that we have turned around in this case, from supporting the government to not supporting the government. That's not the case. We have always said that our concerns are related to the newspapers, and that we would try to find solutions when it came to the newspaper distribution. So we haven't turned around, but we've concluded that it's too far to satisfactory net coverage that we can go for the scheme of compensatory measures for three years. We will, of course, review this objective when and if broadband coverage is achieved. That is why we have proposed a timetable for the development of remaining broadband. But if we do not have a majority in favour of our motion for a resolution, we will, of course, vote in favour of the proposal for coordination of the days on which newspapers are to be distributed. We are very concerned that the newspapers get the best possible conditions in the future. I will therefore deal with the proposals that we have on our own, and with the proposal that we have with the Senterpartiet and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2469	The representative Øystein Langholm Hansen has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2474	There have been major changes in the postal market in recent years. Over the last 15 to 20 years, the item has adapted to market demand with a number of major changes, including: by the creation of a 1 000 post office in favour of the creation of 1 300 Post in the store. The entry already announced the need for additional adaptations in 2016, because the volume of letters falls so drastically and the communication habits to us residents are digitized. The digital revolution gives people, businesses and the public access to ever-new services where people are. Just think about what has happened before the bank and finance! When was the last physical in a bank building to get a banking service? There's been an incredible amount of happening in a very short time for all of us. By the turn of the millennium, no one over the age of 65 was using an online banking system. In 2017, a study showed that 98 pst. by all internet users over 66 years of age use Internet banking, and services are constantly being improved and updated. We experience digitisation in all industries, including the public. People expect that a fast and effective on their own can perform services and communicate digitally. This naturally also frames the Post. Digitalisation leads to dramatic developments in the postal market, with ever-increasing volume of letters. In 2017, the Norwegian household received an average of 3.9 mails per week. Letter volumes have been more than half since 2000, and changes in the postal market are accelerating. Only in the next five years, until 2025, an additional half is expected. There is a sharp drop in Post revenue, while the cost of running out mail to all mailboxes throughout the country is largely fixed every day, i.e. according to the Post Office's own forecasts, the Post Office will be faced with an operating deficit in the Norwegian Post Office five days a week in excess of 1 billion. kr in 2020, and increasing in years thereafter to the top of SEK 1.8 billion. NOK 2023. That is why we are discussing today the billing from the Ministry of Transport on changes in universal postal service requirements, with a reduction in the number of postal distributions to every other day. I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to give honor to the Post Office and the trade union to the post offices, Postkom, for a change-making and conversion attitude. But it is with wonder me no experience that the Labour Party has turned around in this matter. The working party was clearly as late as in March this year, in connection with a document 8 proposal from SV on new tasks to the Post, where the Workers' Party wrote in its comments that the delegation of other tasks did not have to go beyond the necessary conversion process in the Post. We see that the conversion to postal distribution every other day will be especially related to the local ways. Today is going to be 85 pst. of the subscription paper newspapers distributed through own newspapers, while 15 pst. by the paper newspapers are distributed by the Post. We are therefore very pleased that the government is now proposing a compensation scheme for these, where it is purchased the newspaper distribution three fixed days a week for three years from the law enters into force. We also believe that the Department must have flexibility to assess other solutions to the distribution process than to distribute the days, Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays – if the National Association of Media Companies and the National League of Local Wise Men are some of them – within the financial framework that is at the root of the proposal. On the right, actors would like to be happy to develop a resilient and important media activity in the future and to remember that 77 pst. online newspapers are read one or more times a day by the entire population, while 31 pst. read paper newspapers one or more times a day. Amedia reports a larger increase in net subscription than in paper subscriptions. This means that there are both needs and good opportunities for locals to think new and to adapt to a digital everyday life. A decrease in the number of mail breakdown days does not mean the end of the distribution of local news.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2489	It has been known for a long time that a reduction in the number of postal delivery days had to occur. The postal needs of the inhabitants are not the same as they were once. The digital everyday life characterizes us, and it is natural that the state adapts its purchases according to the actual need. I registered that the Workers' Party, which in the past has given a signal that they were going to stand behind a reduction in the number of delivery days, has now made a complete turnaround in the matter. It is regrettable for such an important matter that the Workers' Party does not listen to the Post Norway itself and the employees' trade unions, who want clarification as soon as possible. Employees have lived in an uncertainty long enough. If the Workers' Party had now received an impact on its proposal in the matter, to postpone the reduction until all households have access to broadband, no one would know when the reduction comes. My question then becomes, to the party that usually speaks hot for the safety of working: how should employees deal with such a proposal? How are employees going to plan their lives, plan for their children, mortgages and new cars, when they don't know if the job might disappear next month or next year? Politics is about priority. There is a lot of fun to have, including daily mail. But when the postal demand falls as dramatically as it has done, we have to let go of something that is fun to have. Yes, both I and the Progress Party have a long list of things that are fun to have, but I have to admit that road, hospital and school are ranked highest over unprofitable postal services. It is not just about whether it is socio-economically profitable or not, for taxpayers, to drive empty postal cars. The community is changing, and then the law and service provision of the country’s citizens must be in line with the actual need. The new digital everyday life creates both opportunities and challenges. Post is important for people, but it is actually necessary for the offer to be in line with the need. No one is served with empty postal cars – not the Post, not the country's economy and not the employees, who will face an uncertain future with the opposition's proposals. I have said this before in a previous treatment of a similar case. No one, not even the climate, has been served with empty postal cars, which surprises me that the opposition has not been more concerned about this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2504	Just a few days after the Progress Party proposed to adopt our national anthem as a national anthem, they will fundamentally change this country. In «Yes, we love» we sing about this country, fury, bitter with the thousands of homes, and I have always imagined that these thousand homes we sing about are a picture of a settlement that extends all over the country. The NRK has sent a series of documentaries called ‘The Impossible Country’. It's about how people before us have built Norway. Workers and granting authorities have built the roads, the railways, the lighthouses, the airports, and they have built an infrastructure to keep this country together. The post has been part of this infrastructure, which has made us feel like part of a community, part of a nation where everyone has had opportunities for equivalent postal services. The post was due – to Oslo, to Lindesnes and to Berlevåg. We've got the nations, the class struggle, or the VG in the mailbox, no matter where we've lived in this country. Now, when we get this new postal law, there's another grip on the big centralization project of the right-wing government. When the number of transport days is halved while there is an explicit target that there is enough one transfer day per week, there will be huge geographical differences in record speed. State Council Dale talks about sending fewer letters, but this matter is about so much more than letters of love and bills. People in the districts are constantly feeling that services they need are being laid down or reduced. The centre party believes that newspapers, blood samples, biological material, medicines and spare parts for machinery must be quickly brought forward, even outside the major cities. Obviously, the government won't. This change will particularly affect many people in District Norway, where it is not commercially profitable to send with bids. The new postal law will particularly affect the newspaper industry. Thus, the government has presented two issues affecting the framework conditions for the daily press with a week’s delay. While the media message says that it aims to strengthen the media diversity, the proposed changes in the Postal Act will have a sharp opposite effect. It gives the impression of absent political leadership. The Minister of Culture spoke nicely about the media diversity and the importance of localism, and she wants to use more of the press support on it, while the Minister of Transport is much more concerned about saving some money than caring about the condition of local people, even as strongly as the newspapers warn of changes in the mail delivery. A short-term option has now been put in place to help remedy the situation, but I must remind you that it is a short-term measure. What really gave the basis for this big change is that we went away from A-mail and B-mail, and that we adopted this postal directive that the red-green government did not want to adopt. We wanted to use the veto right in that case, but as early as November 2013, the right-wing government announced that it would not veto this third postal directive. They wanted full liberalisation of the whole market. Mr Solvik-Olsen, Minister of Transport at the time, stressed that the Post would retain the single portfolio and rejected the fact that competition would provide more expensive postal services in the districts. But this is not true. When it comes to getting packages or letters quickly overnight, as before with A-mail, both the Minister and Posten recommend people to use the Business Package express. It's not an equivalent offer. Such an express package is much more expensive, and it takes much longer when it is to be sent, for example. from here to the Finnmarks coast than from here to the Drammen. In addition, you might live far away from a place of delivery, and then you have to drive far to get hold of the package. This wants... I think I have to keep going.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2519	But will the representative make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2524	Yes, I would like to address the proposals No. 4–6, from the Centre Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2529	The representative, Siv Mossleth, has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2534	This case really has two backgrounds. First of all, the historical backbone: what I want to say is that the situation in which the Post Norway is now located, in part, is a result of the misguided privatisation policy followed by the EU Postal Directive. This was also the representative Mossleth inside. Of course, SV was strongly opposed when it was introduced. This has led to a competitive situation that does not provide a better offer to customers but a failing performance for the Post. That's the result. It is, of course, a desired policy on the part of the government. The second picture, of course, is that the amount of correspondence drops. SV sees that the amount of mail drops. But we still believe it is a flawed policy to reduce the number of postal transport days in the country now. It's too early. We wish there was some grip that made it unnecessary. So there are a lot of reasons why we are opposed to the proposal that has been put forward on reducing day-to-day loads. We have to remember that the Post is a functioning national distribution network. It's an important infrastructure that we should fence around and expand instead of cutting and strutting. That's what's happening. That's what's happening, and it's a desired development. While the number of letters drops dramatically, the need for services delivered on the door increases. We see a huge volume increase in the services – that is, packages and services delivered on the door. It speaks of using the distribution network we have in the Post in new ways. That is what we proposed in a document 8 a while ago. We tried to create a public body that could look at new tasks for the Post, but it wouldn't be the majority in the Chamber. But we are promoting a new variant of the proposal today, because we believe there is a great potential in the Post if we want to. Why does this government not want to see the enormous potential of the Post Office? I've been wondering. An established infrastructure that is publicly owned – yes, maybe it is. It's public owned, that's what's wrong. Obviously, there are clear political lines here, but this is a company that is established. The cars are there, the employees are there. We could maybe give them a little more to do to maintain such important services for the districts. No, you're not interested in it, because it's the wrong ownership. That's how I interpret it. There are several other EU countries, including Sweden, which still have a five-day load per week. Very few countries have gone as far down as two and a half days’ drive, which the government has as its starting point. The newspapers have been mentioned several times. That part of the Post is at 15 pst., which has been mentioned many times, mainly in the districts. The Government proposes the establishment of a tendering procedure for the delivery of newspapers three days a week. As it originally existed, this would result in many people losing the opportunity to have daily newspapers delivered home. It was expected that about 200,000 readers would lose their daily newspaper offer. That was for it. And an important point: Paper trays still make up over 70 pst. of the revenue of all newspapers in Norway, despite increasing digitisation. We have to take that with us, and it's often the meaningful newspapers, as well as the regional newspapers, that are being hit. The main reason why the Post Norway Seas support such a scaledown as we have seen is that they should operate according to commercial principles. That's what we're dealing with now, because it's categorized as a so-called Category 3 company, where the state's purpose of ownership is primarily commercial. SV believes that this should be amended. The item is primarily to be included in the item, not with profit. It is an important societal task they have, and we want the Post to be classified as a Category 4 company, with sectoral policy objectives. I will come back to it in a later article.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2550	I'm quite impressed with the Post. They've managed to adapt to the new, modern everyday life, and clearly have very enthusiastic employees. I remember seeing a report just before Christmas last year. The interviewer wondered if there was much to do for them. No, it's really cool that there's so much to do, said the employees. The staff in the post tackle the fluctuations in the volume of work, and tackle it very well. I see they're very concerned that they have to be informed now about how the future will be for the transport. The size must clearly reduce the transport days because the amount of mail is falling sharply. I don't think it's long until we're here. The amount of mail is raging, and it's going to do it because it's now becoming so good tools other than sending out something like letter or on paper. I wonder if Mr. Øystein Langholm Hansen has misunderstood his spin, because today we are able to read the newspaper delivered online, with a standard mobile phone. 99.9 pst. by the people of the country can do it. You don't need more than 4 Mbits per second to do it. It seems that several thousand households lack that possibility. He's counting on them to 82 pst. which has 100 Mbits/s broadband, is the fait accompli when you can read the paper. There are completely different reasons why the Left will be involved in subsidising the carry of these newspapers. Digital solutions have not been converted. You have it on paper, the subscribers want it on paper, as the representative Arne Nävra said, and we have respect for that. Then, over the course of the three-year period, these newspapers really have to develop their newspapers to be equally interesting to the readers, and not least to those who buy advertisements. Because it's the advertising market that's failed in the online newspapers compared to the paper newspapers, that's the big problem. We do not want any newspapers to go bankrupt because they do not get their fabric out, and not least the advertising. That's why we think it's a very good arrangement for us to solve this now for a three-year period. Then we'll see if the National Association of Media Companies and the National Team of Local Wise Men can be in a good dialogue with the Ministry of Transport on getting it the best way for all these newspapers. We put that up with a note now, and we think it's fine if there's an even better order than the Tuesday/Thursday/Saturday episode that was originally proposed. With regard to the Post, I have seen that they have really done climate action. I have been at many meetings with the Post up through my political life, and they have always been in front: driving by electric vehicles and having trains and sea as their transport system. If we calculate the CO2 emissions a little bit with a lower load rate, I think this is going to be a good account for the Post. They are in front and deserve commendation for looking forward instead of seeing for themselves that it is doomsday for the entire mail delivery.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2563	We're still sending fewer letters. Demand for postal services is changing, and the Post Norway as a supplier is constantly changing. Now that I have been following developments in the Post organization closely for several years, I have to say that I have been impressed by the ability to change and the willingness to meet the challenges that are coming. The post office has been in advance. They've had good processes, and the impression that's created is that there's a very good dialogue between employees and management. That's good. It is important at a time when the framework conditions for the market in which the Post Norway operates change rapidly. So we know that since 1999, the letter volume has decreased by 65 pst. Looking forward, track the Post a new decline, at close to 60 p.m., from 2018 to 2025. The revenue of the Post has fallen, while the cost of delivering mail is largely fixed. It goes without saying that in such a situation you have to take action and make changes. For the Christian People's Party, it is essential that through these changes we continue to maintain good offers, not only in the cities, but also in the districts. But that means that we can't hold on to what has happened. Finally, we will find ourselves in a situation where, if we do not ensure that distribution solutions are adapted to new needs, districts will really be losing. The changes in recent years are the result of a digital revolution in which people, businesses and the public choose away physical mail. It's not a result of a political desire to build up an offer, but it's a development that comes anyway. If we don't make changes in mail distribution, we will quickly get there that we need to spend more and more resources on a service that is being used less and less. The changes currently proposed mean that the item will be delivered every two days during the weekdays. Then there is no secret that the Christian People's Party has been concerned about the consequences of this conversion for the distribution of newspapers in the districts. But I am pleased that the government is now ensuring an offer for local managers throughout the country, by the state buying the delivery of newspapers three days a week for a transitional period of three years. This will give the newspapers time for conversion, which they have also asked for. In addition, the government intends to increase media support by 10 million. kr for digitisation and transition during a transitional period. It is also such that everyone with a mailbox can still receive a daily fresh paper every working day when the newspaper is delivered to the Post locally or regionally. Then I would also like to stress that we now have to follow the situation closely to the locals. It is also a concern we have in the Christian People’s Party. Nor must we be aliens in order to make further adjustments. Now, the Storting offers flexibility to assess other solutions for distribution, and the Ministry can then consider alternative solutions other than those contained in the proposal for newspaper distribution on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday, as it emerges from the legislative proposal and the vote. The Christian People's Party agrees with the majority of the Committee that such an assessment can be made by the government if the National Association of Media Enterprises and the National Association of Local Wise Men jointly present an alternative solution within the economic framework set out in the proposal. It is also a central point that such a proposal must be realised within the timelines laid down in the Government's proposals. I also notice that Postkom believes that sufficient time has to be put in to carry out the conversion itself. I fully agree with Mr Postkom. A crucial factor for a successful transition is precisely that there is time to implement the transition in a clean and orderly manner. I am sure that everyone involved will pay attention to that. The Christian People's Party will vote in favour of the committee's majority vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2584	Today, the government wants to get the stamp of approval from Stortinget on a law that means that mail delivery in Norway is cut from five days a week to two and a half. This came to the government after renting a foreign consultant, who counted the crowns and ears and gave the government the answer it wanted – you can save millions of dollars on raging the mail offer. So it was obviously not so dangerous that this would weaken the backbone of Norway's infrastructure, and also affect the countryside, newspaper diversity and democracy. Red says no to this fury. We support the opposition's proposal that the Post be operated according to social rather than commercial objectives and will deliver five days a week in the future. Let's take a step back and see what kind of joint inheritance Erna Solberg let the consultants in Copenhagen Economics go on with their spreadsheets. According to the history books, it was Harald Haarfafer who gathered Norway to one kingdom. But it was in many ways the post that tied us together to one society. The community we take for granted today would not have existed in a country with our geography, if not letters, information, and after each newspaper had linked us together across both high mountains and deep valleys. The same applies to democracy, diversity of opinion and freedom of the press. Of course, the philosophers of the Enlightenment and the ideas they came with were important. But it was the post’s foot soldiers, Norwegian farmers, with post-horns, letterbags and delivery sticks, who created the infrastructure of democracy in Norway. We are a different country because we have living settlements with living local democracy. A prerequisite for this is a post office which, among other things: ensure the delivery of newspapers and which maintain the diversity of newspapers throughout Norway. Unfortunately, we have a government that consistently increases the inequalities in this country, not only after the wallet, but also by postcode – quite literally. The post has gone from being a public offer that binds the country together to having a commercial purpose. With the proposal today, it is the very infrastructure of democracy that is being marked by the government's savings knife. Everyone in this room knows what the consequences of it can be. People on the outskirts won't get newspapers like before, and many won't reach readers with their newspapers. In states like Finnmark, Troms, Nordland and Telemark, between 25 and 50 pst. of the newspapers distributed via the Post. This is why the Norwegian Journalist team, the National Association of Media Companies and the National Association of Local Wise Men warn of the danger of large-scale newspaper deaths. Then we see that the compensation system from the government is very close enough to fix this. Before voting on today's proposal, we should notice and think about the Constitution § 100: «It is for the authorities of the State to facilitate an open and informed public conversation.» If Stortinget adopts a law that significantly weakens the newspaper diversity, we are also at risk of breaking with the intention of the Basic Law § 100, according to Red's assessment. In addition, there are concerns about the provision of medical examinations and other correspondence. While there may be good shops with private postal services in densely populated areas, the private offer will be both poorer and, of course, more expensive in the districts. In this case, we have discussed both heads and ears – compensation schemes and fractions – and that is good and good. We understand that the media industry makes the best of the situation when the government first decided to rage over the postal service. Of course, we're behind the media in the fight they're now in. What we also vote on today is something greater than that, namely the management of an important common heritage – a society where we have equal rights to public services throughout the country, and where we also have living settlements and a living local democracy, where the postal number does not determine what rights and opportunities you have, and where a citizen of Us has the same rights as a resident of Oslo. We are opposed to squabbling away this common heritage, by a rapture of the post offer to get short-term profit and savings.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2606	I can assure the previous speaker that neither I nor the rest of the government have ever had any burning desire to put down the Post's service to the people. We don't. The people put down their own needs for the Post, because they've got something as great as electronic mail. The mail has arrived in Norway. We are one of the most digitized countries in the world. We're one of the fastest countries to put new technology into practice, and more and more of us are. To put it simply, the generation that once looked over the kitchen garden home in Dalsfjorden is now following the neighbors on Facebook instead. We're digitized in many ways. This means that the need for the Post is less – because people have stopped using the Post, because the company we are dealing with our goods, or the power suppliers or the telecommunications companies, are easier to pay digitally, and we don't charge. So we cut out the giro in the post. Then the question to the seventh and last, to the opposition who says that we have to run the postal cars five days a week to deliver: What will the postal car deliver in a few years? There will be no left, only empty mail cars running around in District Norway, without post. The money we've got better things to use to keep up the foundation for building in the districts. And believe me, as the emergence of a fjord arm -- we were 130 inhabitants in the area I come from, and on the children's floor we were down to nine elephants divided by six years -- I know what it's like to live in the district. And I'm absolutely sure there are ways we can help keep up the construction, which is far more effective for the population than running around with empty mail cars five days a week. Because that's what this is all about. Conversion in the Post has been going on for many years. It is perhaps one of the most successful changes in the public sector. They're probably getting too little bragging for it. Postkom, the union of trustees in the Post – a lot of them, at least – has actively helped to rent out fierce public sector conversions, in a way that they genuinely care for the interests of those adding in the best possible way. And they're doing it again. There's respect for it. And that the left-hand side today says “Sorry, Mac”, but it can’t – when Postkom, they trusted, says that it’s what put most jobs in the Post in jeopardy in the future, is almost incomprehensible to me. That SV gets to it – okay. That the Center Party does not dare stand for something that is controversial – ok. But that the Labour Party does, I don't understand. We're going to be able to carry out the second consideration that very many others have been concerned about here today, the very consideration of the newspapers. And we've substantially adjusted our proposal from what was listening to, to keep a newspaper distribution to everyone in the whole country. But we actually had two suggestions that came in as the heavy audio recordings from the media industry. It was the proposal from the Landslag for local viewers, who said that we have to have a fixed day, a fixed distribution, which makes it tough for us what days the newspaper is going to come out, until we do the digital transformation that the media industry has to do. So we're going to listen to that. Then we had the National Media Association, which said it's good enough with 90 pst. distribution in the population. It was impossible for the government to propose – it was impossible for the government to propose a model where we would say 10 pst. out of the population should not be given locally at all. That's what would have threatened the media decline. That's why we have the proposal that we have put forward, because it gives everyone, throughout the country, equal access to the purchased services from the state. I believe that our proposal balances the issue of migration in the Post, the concerns of those who are added to the Post, and the need for people to have a media shortage and the need for newspapers to be distributed. But in line with the plural comment from the government party, we should of course consider whether there are other, better solutions that the media companies themselves are now bringing. I mean this is a necessary conversion, because as politicians, we can enjoy the digital shift coming to Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2625	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2630	Differences are increasing in Norway, including between cities and countries. The Working Party will do something about that. As the Council of State has seen, the Labour Party proposes that the government should ensure that the post is distributed five days a week. But it's well to be optimistic if we think it's going to be adopted today. Therefore, it is important that the citizens of the country know whether the Council of State can say something about when he believes that broadband development will be good enough, and what he thinks is sufficient or good enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2635	I'm busy with the huge expansion of digital infrastructure that the government has been doing over the last few years. It goes very far because commercial actors are building broadband at a pace that never before, investing billions of dollars every year, and because the state has contributed through the state budget to reaching out to more marginal areas, but also because we have changed, for example. The engraving regulation, which makes it cheaper to expand broadband across the country – both regulatory changes and budgetary concessions to achieve it. I'm behind the goals we have for broadband development for the future, but I think one of the ways that one can actually contribute to funding it is to stop running around with empty mail cars. That's where the Labour Party is failing today. There is a lack of ability to convert money used to run empty mail cars for money spent on digital infrastructure.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2642	The Council of State, in its intervention on requests from the Landslag für lokalviseren and the National Association of Media Companies, showed that the government's proposals for compensatory measures will not compensate well enough, and that one of course will look at it. They point out that what is now in the matter is a step in the right direction. In proposal No 1 in the case, it is proposed that the newspapers should be included in the days in which the Post does not do so, so that the newspapers can come out all days instead of three days. I could imagine asking what the Council of State thinks about such a proposal, and whether he might agree enough to support that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2647	I will decide on a proposal based on the comment made by the majority in today's vote, if there is a comprehensive proposal from the Landslag for local viewers and the National Association of Media Companies. I respect the fact that it is imperative for the newspapers to find detailed solutions to all of this. I hope, however, that we will get a solution that is the best solution possible. I still want to say – and I think it's okay to be honest with Stortinget – that a solution where one doesn't have distribution to parts of the population at all, I think I'm the worst solution of all. That's what was in the original proposal from MBL, which meant that I chose to follow the recommendations from LLA initially. I don't think it's possible for this big deal, at least not for the government party, to say that parts of the population shouldn't get newspaper distribution from the state at all. That's because we've done the assessments we've done. If you come back with a proposal that provides full distribution and works better for the media industry, I will of course make an assessment of it with a view to getting it done.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2660	I want to follow up further, because this majority in the committee says that the department can assess solutions other than the purchase of newspaper distribution Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday. The media industry has expressed concern that the proposal for newspaper distribution on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday will have a major negative impact on the newspapers coming out four to six days a week. Can the Council of State confirm that the Department will work with the industry to find a better solution for newspaper subscribers, as requested by the industry, without a performance related to the original proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2670	Yes!
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2675	Nice! Tooth prostheses, biological material and the good old paper paper that many still prefer cannot be transmitted digitally, nor in three years. A package of 7 cm thick and up to 2 kg can be sent for 155 kroner in the post office at the prices of last year. Before the e-mail was removed, the post office would be happy to arrive the next day. If one wants to send a small piece, a denture, for example. from Oslo to Loppa with Express overnight, which is recommended by the Post Office and the Council of State, it costs more than NOK 1000, and the estimated time is one to five days if you have delivered before noon. 16th@item: inlistbox Sends the same package from Oslo to a place nearby, gets one that day before noon. 9, promise the Post. The same mail pack costs NOK 430 here, and it is more likely to be there. Does the Council of State really believe that this is an equivalent offer across the country? And can he defend the great extra costs?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2684	As far as I know, it's always been that it's on a letter transfer of less than 50 grams that one has had a common postage. One has never had it in the parcel post, e.g. up to 2 kg. But aside from that. I can understand that it takes longer to send a package from Oslo to Loppa than over the street. There's some kind of logic in it -- it's shorter distance. And I think that the policy should take time and resources to mitigate distance differences, contribute to the equivalent supply in the whole country, but when a package is going to go, it has to travel. Whether to travel ten times as far, it often takes a little longer than what is ideal. The alternative to the Center Party would be to say that they have to wait to deliver it to Oslo, so that it wouldn't get there any faster than it would in District Norway. That would be completely meaningless.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2691	Governments are pleased with the change that has taken place – it has been so smooth, and there has been so good, little resistance. I am not happy about what has happened – one step after another. First, goods went out of the post office, so shipping, parcels, so it was just B-mail, one category, and now they're also going to choke the post office in terms of fewer transfers. I have one specific question to the Council of State: how many households, in number or in percent, does he estimate it is that now does not get his daily newspaper in the mailbox every day, after these conversions? I don't think about locals three times a week.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2698	When Storting asked me today to look at alternative solutions, I did not intend to pre-prosecut it until I could see what they were coming up with, so the representative would not get me to answer, because then I would prejudge the events. I did not rejoice that there was little resistance; I am glad that people get better services. I've heard these debates before. When Post came to the store, there were riots and screams because the post offices disappeared. But that means that we get our mail at several times a day, it becomes more flexible if a job shift – or there may be other reasons that make a person actually get a better offer in many cases than what an old post office did. The fact that SV should get such a stop-world-eg-vil-off hold, is strange when this is all about getting more and more better digital services. The most decentralised supply we can get in a country like Norway is that people can operate digitally with shorter distance disadvantages than one else would have.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2705	I am glad that the Council of State answered the question just like that, because then I have to raise the point with digital platforms. It's actually not that everyone's on digital platforms yet – like the Council of State, like everyone in this room, sitting on their phones and online about the whole time, and reading their newspapers on digital platforms. There are actually hundreds of thousands of Northmen who have paid taxes their entire lives, and who can now risk not getting the paper paper paper they hope for, and which they expect. Is that not reason for concern at the Council of State for all those who cannot read on digital platforms today?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2714	The answer to that is that of course it is, but that's why I'm also inflating tens of millions, a $60 million sum, the coming years to actually deliver paper paper paper newspapers to this part of the population. For it gives a carelessness the coming years for both the migration process that is going on in the Post and for the residents to still be told the newspaper. In some cases, she may not be a day fresh, I admit it. It's simply because the cost of delivering it will not take those who produce newspapers to get it out to their customers either. We will take the cost in many cases, but when the option is others cut in welfare or not the necessary strengthening of e.g. Broadband expansion in the districts, I think it's a poor solution not to go for what the government party is about today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2719	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2726	The world is changing, our habits are changing, and we're recording it related to the amount of correspondence going down. We recognize it, but we also have to make sure that the changes that are coming are possible for people to live with. Norway is a long-distance country, inhabited throughout the country. The post has an infrastructure covering the whole country. For many in District Norway, the possibility of getting today's newspaper is the only infrastructure measure left. It won't be distributed five times a week, but you can get mail in the mailbox every day. It is a good offer, but for some in this country it is also quite demanding. Conversion can be demanding, perhaps especially from where you live. In February, the Workers' Party's fraction visited the Municipality of Kvänangen in Troms and met with shocked residents in Reinfjorden and at Speldra, who had been told by the Post that they had to pick up their own post in mailboxes at the municipality centre in Burfjord. The matter had only a serious backside: they had to be in the boat. It took all day round/return, approx. 10-11 hours. It did not go boat every day, only twice a week it had a trip/return. I will not comment on the cost of the ticket. In Norway, during the transition period, some of the inhabitants of Kvänangen are going to spend a large part of their lives retrieving their own mail. It's an example that the conversion might be demanding for someone. And then you can blow this example as periphery. Yes, Speldra and Reinfjord are peripheral if you see it from Oslo. Nevertheless, they are residents of Norway and require equivalent services. They need drugs, newspapers and other things. We in the Labour Party believe that the whole country must be digitised, including the last percentages that are not, including the last percentages that are difficult to digitize. Without that, we need to maintain services, if not a failure statement for the housing pattern in Norway. The population of the country as a whole is entitled to equivalent services in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2743	These are the stories that are being told here now, which means that for us in the Center Party, this isn't really about whether there's access to the digitized services or not. It is really a matter of the Post office also having to be able to change and make offers other than driving around with empty mail cars. The number of letters goes down, but in Norway people want to get as close to themselves as possible, even physically if you live in a house or in an apartment. You want to get services on the door, and you want to do things another way. When others provide such services, you would like to receive a message from the SMS saying that something has ended up in the mailbox half an hour ago, and you are asking for it to be picked up as soon as possible, because it has a certain value. Such services I think maybe the Post has deliberately failed to try to see as part of the transition, because it's easier to make money on the kind of business where there's a lot of people, and where the distances are short. It is much, much easier to make money on such a service than to deliver packages – as a replacement for letters – 3, 4, 5, 6 or 7 miles away where you have offices. District Norway, and it has a district, costs money, but at the same time it gives great value creation. And that's in the calculation you have to see also the services of the Post. It started already when you put A and B mail together. It was then decided to remove a good solution – for a relatively viable sum of money, people could pay for that type of service – and then recommend expressive solutions, as mentioned earlier, which are considerably more expensive. It will be exactly the same as when, as rapporteur, I was responsible for and part of a renovation company. What did we do? Well, we picked up garbage for people around the municipality, and at the same time we used our network against the industry to also collect industrial waste from them, because no one competed to pick up garbage at Glitterheim or Grimsdalshytta. We actually did. A little bit the same way you have to think about the post office. You have to look at the possibilities you have to just run out e-mails. That is what we presented as a proposal last time we debated this by post, but it was voted down in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2754	I think we should agree that it is primarily the technological progress that has made us our own postmen. Faster delivery, cheaper postage – it is not possible to complain about it. It has made everyday life a lot easier. Some people bring forward the EU directives. If that's the third postal directive you think about, it's not implemented in the EEA Agreement. The Icelandic have forgotten it in some drawer. In addition, that Directive provides for at least five days a week for postal distribution. So to blame the EU here, I have to say is to shoot on the wrong horse. It's nice with the postman in the street, but what's he going to carry around? Some suggest that more services be provided. I was in the post office from 1995 to 2001. Then there was a conversion of the postal network that was the matter, and we tried the same thing. Should we put a little bit more services, a little bit more stuff into the post offices that people can buy – postcards, CDs? It wasn't very successful, so we thought the opposite. Let's put the post office in the store. Excellent success! Never has the Post been present so many places for people and with so long opening time. So everyone who talks so hot about distributing five days a week claims that the post office should not go with profits, but with mail. It sounds festive, but a company with 15,000 employees and 24 billion. kr in non-profit-making sales is an enterprise – to use an image that at least some in the hall understand the seriousness of – with a life below the barrier. You'll soon stop going by post. So please -- put aside the attitude that the Post is such an important part of the infrastructure that it doesn't matter what it costs. Why has Postkom always been involved in the transition – from our post office network to today? Yes, because they know that in this room they will lose if they are to compete for appropriations for the Post with appropriations for home help, hospitals, roads, etc. There is not one party in this room that will prioritise more money for the Post over the other services.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2766	I will first make an explanation of vote, so it will not be gone at the end. Proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party does not want to vote in favour. The reason for this is that in these proposals postal services and broadband are very strongly linked. Today, the Center Party does not see that we will have such good broadband that we can send e.g. packages of biological material digitally. We believe that the item's infrastructure has a value in any case. The post and representative Olsen of the Progress Party are concerned with the environment. But the idea in the new Postal Act that you can get the mail every day if you drive up to a mailbox that is at a place of delivery has a strange environmental account. We may save the emissions from a postal car, and it is very beneficial for the environmental accounts of the post – hiea, post office, you are very good – but then 50 pieces in the building might have to drive quite a long way to pick up the post at the store. It's increasing the total emissions. But the overall environmental accounts may not mean anything anymore. So Postkom and the trusted ones have been mentioned. The trustees relate to the very explicit demand for profits in the company. That requirement is actually greater than the requirement for the entry to be provided. I talked about the series ‘The Impossible Country’ and there was one of the entries about a postman who was taken by a snow race. The youth who was in charge of the postman, got away from being razed and got alerted people in the village. They lightly and dug after the postman for two days. On day two they brought a coffin to carry the corpse back to the village, but they did not find the postman. The postman, however, had heard that they were digging right over him, but could not communicate that he was there. Gradually, under the snow, the postman had got out the post horn, and with that he finally managed to dig forward. But then everyone was gone home. The only thing left was the coffin. It was standing on a pair of skis, and the postman used these skis to get to people. I have great faith in those who work in the post office, so this is a good example. Before the mailman left, he noticed of course where in the race area the postage bag was, so that the post office could arrive. And that's what the Central Party wants with this proposal: we want to look at another organisation of the post, so that social responsibility goes beyond the requirement of profit.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2775	First of all, I will be allowed to give some honor to the representative Svein Roald Hansen. I think he kept a fantastic good post, which I can basically join completely to. In fact, I decided to withdraw from the list of speakers – that's how good it was! But I don't, I'm a little too happy to talk to it. This is about the digitisation of our society. It's about people using online banking, sending e-mails, reading newspapers online, getting information online – in a completely different way today than you did before. This is not a decision made by the previous government or by previous governments, or as this government has done, this is a development that happens because as consumers we want better tools, better solutions and better ways to deal with our everyday lives. That's what this is really about. And then we make it a huge problem. On the contrary, this is a great opportunity. We've never had better opportunities to provide ourselves with good services and good user experiences than now, when we have these digital solutions. Working towards development does not help, then you have to work on development. Therefore, when we see that the amount of letter has fallen by 65 pst. Since the turn of the millennium, and it continues at an accelerated pace, the solution is not to continue driving semi-empty postal cars around Norway, the solution is to try to transform society into a more digital society, enabling us to get new and better services through the tools and solutions that are there. I understand that this is also about newspapers, and I see that it takes longer conversion times especially for our locals to handle this transition. And we're also trying to make that right in the setting that's right over here. The Ministry has proposed a solution with fixed days, Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday, to deal with this transition phase. It is a good proposal, but at the same time we have an opening so that the department can assess other solutions if it is found useful jointly by the media industry. This helps to contribute to the transition that we also need in the media industry, and ensures the media diversity over a transition period. So just a little bit to the Workers' Party, because I feel that the Workers' Party has turned this case around. It is to the extent that an honest case continues to go for five business days, but I think the reason is very thin when you argue that you need to ensure digital access for people to read newspapers. When we know that Nkom says that less than a thousand households in this country don't have enough digital access to read newspapers, that's a terrible thin argument. So be honest with me why you're turning around. I don't think it's the digital access to read newspapers or e-mails that's the main reason. There has to be something else that makes the Workers' Party turn around in this matter, and does not want to contribute further to the digitisation and development that is taking place, and the conversion of the Post.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2786	We in Norway are lucky. Because we've been pursuing a very active media policy for decades, we're a very enlightened country with a record share of the population consuming news. We have a good media diversity of local, regional and national press. It is a great strength for our democracy, because the media helps the population to have an open and enlightened debate. That we can have the informed debate, the authorities should facilitate. That is stated in Section 100 of the Basic Law. It is the responsibility of the Storting and the government that the entire population has access to media that will help to shed light on issues relating to them, from different points of view. But we are not quite able to do that right now, because we have got the Minister of Culture in his media report that white spots on the map of Norway. These include themes and geographical areas that are not well covered by the media — raising local and regional issues that are not addressed by the national media or raising a different perspective on a matter, such as: number two newspapers and nationally scattered niche newspapers as our country and class struggle do. At the same time as we work in the family and culture committee to cover the white spots in the media release, the government comes up with a proposal for a new postal law that guarantees new and many more white spots in the media offer. The government will limit the mail delivery in the future, and it will do so at a fierce pace. It will affect 75 000 subscribers, who will no longer receive their daily newspapers on the day they are published, and it will make a subscription to these newspapers much less attractive and, naturally, will affect both the economic and the content of the newspapers. Take, for example: My home state, Telemark. There will be thousands of subscribers being hit by the fact that TA gets this postal law caught. The nationally dispersed niche newspapers are also being hit. They've figured out the consequences, and it's scary reading. Several of them might want to go in, or at least forget to evolve as positively as most of these newspapers now do, with creative and good digital solutions that they, among other things, do. wins prizes. These papers need a lot more time to get their subscribers to digital. Some of these subscribers do not even have broadband access, because the government does not charge for broadband development in the districts. Then it goes without saying that we have a democratic problem with the proposal of the postal law that originally came. We in the Center Party believe that everyone in the country has the right to the same services wherever they live, and the right not to take away from them the possibility of getting day-fresh news, so that they can be part of society and the social debate. That is why we do not support the proposal for amendments to the Postal Act, but we are very pleased that the committee's work has put on the table a proposal for a solution on postal transport, from the National Association of Media Enterprises and the Landslag für lokalvisen in common. I hope that is followed up concretely, both from the government parties and not least from the minister.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2799	The next speaker, the representative Arne Nävra, does not seem to be present in the Chamber, and we are therefore moving on to the list of speakers, to the representative of Solveig Sundbø Abrahamsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2804	Understanding the time we live in, and prioritizing and choosing solutions that are adapted to people's everyday lives, can be difficult. We live in a digitalized society. We just have to admit that. There has been a tremendous development in the last ten years when it comes to how we communicate, what expectations we have to get information quickly, and that we can arrange many of the services themselves through the smartphone. It's strange to think that in 2007, the iPhone came, and all of a sudden we had the internet and e-mail easily available in the pocket, 24/7. In 2016, over 80 pst. by all the Northmen a smart phone, and 90 pst. We use the Internet every day. Now, many of us are so dependent on the smartphone that we can hardly think and remember how we managed without. With smartphones we can always be up-to-date on events. When we were serious about reading newspapers online, we felt that paper paper newspapers contained only old news. More and more people now choose to have net subscriptions only. In 2019, we sent fewer letters, and postcards, for example, which we used a lot on holiday trips, are now being replaced by sending us to Snapchat. It is mainly the situation of local visas and the distribution of paper newspapers in the districts that has been the main concern in the matter of changes in post-transmission requirements. For the Right, it is important to endure the media decline we have in the country. Purchases of newspapers for three fixed days in a week have now been secured for a transitional period of three years from the date of entry into force of the Act – probably from 1 July 2020. It gives the newspapers time to change. But it's important that the newspapers adapt to a digital everyday life. It is therefore gratifying that the government intends to increase the media support by 10 million. kr for digitisation and transition during a transitional period. Newspapers that are particularly affected by postal law changes will be prioritised. In addition, there will be a stronger deployment of broadband – 200 million. kr in the budget for 2019. I believe that the newspapers are able to make the change, use the time well and find solutions that are adapted to the world we are actually living in.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2817	I am going to sign out the representative Helge Orten's compliments to me and say that the very first part of his posts was also good. But now he's out of the hall, so someone gets to bring it on. Among other things, the representative Dagfinn Henrik Olsen shows a touching concern for the employees in the Posten. That's very nice, and we agree. But I wish that this care had also infected on a matter we have just dealt with, namely the matter of changing the taxi legislation, but it is now too late. When you have such care for your employees, you should have also suggested 18 months of conversion, as the employees initially requested, and not 13 months, as it has now been. I notice that the representatives of the government parties insist that the Workers' Party has turned around. Once again, we haven't turned around! We never concluded – i.e. not until now, just before the matter was settled. We've told the media, among others. The class struggle and the VG, we were looking at a system for the newspapers to adapt to the new everyday life. Such a system, which was more reasonable than five days of distribution, we did not find. That's why we came to the conclusion that we're going to go in the opposite direction. So no, Jon Gunnes, we haven't misunderstood. There are areas and people in this country who don't have enough broadband coverage, but once that's the case, I said that of course we have an intention to reconsider this – in line with what Svein Roald Hansen said in his speech earlier. Finally, I would also like to pay tribute to employees and management in Posten AS for the way they have managed the changes and amortizations over almost all times. We've said that to them at regular intervals, and I'd like to repeat it here as well. There is even a book about the changes in the Post, which is a tribute to the cooperation that management and trustees have had. So it's well documented, and we're also behind that rose.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2830	I thought I would say something about what the representative, Ingeniill Olsen, brought up here about those who have to go far to pick up their post. It is clearly a real problem issue, but it is not an isolated matter that is now being treated. The Government does not approve the Post in any case where you decide to move the Post Office. There is a rule on the basis. That is why I went in advance and asked for information about how this has been practised over the years. That regulation has been underpinned for many years. From 2000 to 2010, there was an increase each year in the number of exemptions under the regulations. There was a slight decrease until 2015, it went up in 2016, and then to go down again in 2017 and 2018. It was a matter that was dealt with on the basis of Prop. 131 S for 2016–2017, where this was actually the theme, and where a unanimous magnification joined the case on the regulation. This is so simple that if you intend to do something about it, you should at some point consider whether the regulation is accurate from the feedback you have seen in the media and that both the Workers' Party and the Advance Party have received from the people of Northern Ireland, who have suddenly got a long distance from the mailbox. So this is just a call for us to stick to the case and what this really applies. This is, in fact, a joint responsibility, for a unanimous increase in 2017 adopted an extended regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2841	I really didn't think that I was going to ram up what I'm doing now, but I think I'm doing it anyway. As it says, and on which it has been clear, it is that after the establishment of Post Norge AS in 2002, the country’s ownership is clearly based on the need to ensure the existence of a nationwide postal service provider. The main task of the post is to ensure that users across the country have access to good and forward-looking equivalent services. Postal services are an important part of society’s infrastructure, which is essential for ensuring the establishment and good business environment throughout the country. People shall have access to equal services. As I said instead, this is not about the fact that we in the Center Party or other people don't understand that we are in a digitized world, that we don't understand that there are services that take different ways than through the mailbox to people, that we don't understand that there are emails that people do in everyday life because they feel it's easier. That's not what it's all about. This is because there are other types of services that you will not have access to in the same way that you do in urban areas, for example. getting packages in the mail – because there is no one else who is responsible for that distribution than the Post. I also share the opinion that the post office has been willing to change, which they have been doing for many years. At the same time, I'm a little worried that in this transformation, you actually don't take into account what I put up initially in my post, because part of the transformation is on the social mission for which they have a responsibility, and on which you don't necessarily make a lot of money. As has been recorded by the proposal of the Centre Party, we would like, among other things: a different classification of the Item. We want it to be classified as a category-4 company, i.e. the achievement of sectoral policy objectives, often referred to as societal tasks. This does not mean that the company should not operate as efficiently as possible, but the starting point is that the sectoral social tasks, the objectives of the Post Office, should be achieved. As the government writes: «The Member States' objectives of ownership of category 4 companies have mainly sectoral policy objectives. The State, which owns, emphasises that sectoral policy objectives are being achieved as effectively as possible.’ This is one of the suggestions that have been put forward, perhaps making it possible for the future government in the Post to see this in a slightly different way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2859	The representative Siv Mossleth has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2864	I would like to point out to the representative Olsen regarding the legislation, as he says has changed, that we have now had a new practice on it. In the past, the mailbox might have stood one or a half kilometers away from the household, now it's dragged into it -- I kept saying -- almost endless, with five to twelve hours of travel to the mailbox. This is a whole new practice. More than 150 consultation replies were sent in connection with this case. People living and working in the countryside have experienced a gradual decline in access to postal services, for example: the trader has pointed out in the answers to the hearing. The centre party is able to cope with digitisation, but this with e.g. packed biological material, doesn't change even if we never digitize that much.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2871	I am sorry that I was a little late on the trigger for the previous article. There are good signals coming from the Council of State about remedial measures, compensation schemes — or perhaps some of us calling plastics on the wound. But those are nice signals, and I hope you're jeopardizing yourself, that you're flexible, and that you accept the recordings that have come, in a proper and serious way, so that we can at least cancel the worst results of this law change. I wanted to get back to the district aspect of this, please. On 10 April this year, two propositions were made. One was about the postal law, and the other was the professional transport law, i.e. the taxi industry – the two matters discussed today. An accident rarely comes alone, and it's actually such that both of these two things that we've discussed today have common features. The Community lines apply, inter alia, to: districts, which are hit by both proposals. There's never such a small attack on the districts of both of these propositions. That's one of them. The second is that I find it disrespectful that it is assumed that hundreds of percent of the country's population are on digital platforms. They're not yet, it's too early, they're not there. To a large extent, these are people who have paid taxes throughout their lives and who now do not receive what they deserve — neither districts nor mail. This is something we have to take over, and I think we can say 'we'. We in the hall have not been good enough to think that not everyone is as resourceful as those who are in the hall here and who are on these platforms. We're sitting with these phones in front of us, we're online all the time – more or less. It's actually also that there are still people who pay either with the letter giro or in the old way via some strawmen to the bank. We're not going to assume that 100 percent is on digital platforms. That means we're a little too early to take these big grips. There are still hundreds of thousands that are not on digital platforms, and we're going to take that over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2885	The representative Dagfinn Henrik Olsen from the Progress Party suggested that my example from Kvänangen had nothing to do with this matter. We have no doubt that the Post Norway has the opportunity to prescribe that you can use the mailbox. But there is actually a difference between an assembly stand with mailboxes and the fact that you have to travel to Burfjord if you live on Speldra. There's actually a difference between that. And it's about this case, because they might have to pick up their papers in their mailbox, and what's the point of it if there's a distribution in the mailbox every day if the boat only goes twice a week and they're going to spend ten to eleven hours on it? If the representative Olsen believes it has nothing to do with this matter, he is not the Ombudsman for those who live in the district and are exposed to it. The example of the Kvänangen example is that conversion is demanding, and that the Post Norway may not have been wise and sensible in relation to the very inhabitants. I think we should take that with us, because neither of us has an interest in people coming out the way they have done in the town of Kvänangen.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2890	It is approaching as far as the end of this debate is concerned, and so I have, based on the contribution of the representative Svein Roald Hansen, as I thought was very liberating, it was just as if the governing party the Labour Party was back in the hall, almost wanting to say welcome, it was a long time ago, but it was very fun to right. What Svein Roald Hansen is addressing is this matter at the heart of the matter, and I feel that some other representatives in the Labour Party are not fully capable of taking over. The option for those added to the Post to reduce the number of distribution days is not, as the representative Sven Roald Hansen clearly said, that there is going to be rolling money to the Post to pay for these services. There's a worse transition, there's a greater risk for them to add, and it's over time a harder shift for them to add, which can't be planned as well as we can when we start this now. The reality is that it's not the last time we discuss how many days of the week we can run around with a postal car, because the volume is still falling. They fall faster than the worst case scenario of all those who have studied the predictions for this. This is a problem that is not going to happen. If we're going to close that transition, I think we need to be able to stand in some difficult discussions. That was what I thought the representative Svein Roald Hansen did, and it is in stark contrast to proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party today. I mean, it's okay for the Storting to take over, too, because the proposal that the Labour Party is behind in proposal No. 2, which is about running around empty mail cars five days a week, the Labour Party wouldn't have been in position, because they had understood what the consequences were, and they now understand it as well. It's the most amazing thing about it. One sounds like they understand it, but they can't take the tax. I hope we see Svein Roald Hansen here more often. It was liberating to see a steering party back in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2903	For the left, an equivalent postal offer is still the responsibility of the Post, and the success of Post in Storeik has also given the residents in District Norway a clear improvement in relation to when they only had the post offices, because they did not have long opening hours. Now the shops are open quite a long time beyond the evening, and Post in Store has become a fantastic service for the whole country. Yes, there are some challenges. There are some places in the country where they don't have mail delivery or Post in Store in their vicinity, but there's nothing new, and there's nothing new with the decision we're making today. There is a situation there, and we recommend that the Post is still open with its offers and services, so that they actually serve as much as possible in the future. So to Arne Nävra, who would use strawmen to pay for himself. I have respect for those who are unable to operate the digital tools, but it might also be possible to use the digital tools that exist and that are easily accessible anywhere. The tax haven, for example, must continue to provide its services in the light of the modernisation it has carried out. We now get our papers digitally -- or we don't get any more papers, then -- these numbers tell us whether we owe or get tax again. Not everyone is able to get into that service, but they can clearly use Arne Nävra's thugs to help themselves. We're not going to flirt about this, but it's incredibly important that we go the other way, because the modernisation and digitization that we're experiencing in society now, don't go back. Then we actually have to train adults to take advantage of this, so that everyone gets a similar offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2914	The representative, Dagfinn Henrik Olsen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2919	It is possible that the undersigned – in relation to the rest of the day – might express himself a little clumsy when he had the word in place. At least that wasn't the intention. The background was, in fact, that the number of exceptions is set out in the regulation, and historically they are not presented to the Stortinget. But it was done in Prop. 131 S for 2016–2017, precisely because they had introduced new technology to calculate the route, and they saw that the distance was greater than they thought. Then my point is: there is no suggestion in this case to do something with that regulation – it does not. In other words, you still agree with the criteria used.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2926	I'm going to be pretty short. I'm going to be so short that I would like to ask for attention, because I'm going to say the following: I fully agree with the Council of State Dale that if we had been in government for the last six years, we would have – yes – gone for a reduction to every two days, because then we would have had 100 pst. national broadband coverage.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2931	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2947	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up for the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2956	To let go of a little sensation here before I start: in this case, there is an overall attitude from the committee. So then you're going to read what I'm saying, based on that. In the proposal, the Ministry of Transport proposes an amendment to the Law of 4 July 2003 No. 83 on electronic communications, the eco-nomy law, in order to regulate retail and wholesale charges for calls to special numbers, 5-digit numbers, so that the price level is lower, and that the numbering resource can be used for its purpose. It is also proposed to include a new provision in the Ecoom Act in order to set maximum prices for international number-based communications systems within the EEA territory. National communication authorities have for several years tried to contribute to greater competition on calls and tried to publish prices in dialogue with industry and through direct calls to operators. This has not led to lower prices for calls to special numbers. The Committee would stress that the high price level is a challenge not only for calls but also for calls to special numbers. As the receiver of calls, you want to be able to offer numbers that are easy to remember for calls, without customers having to pay overprice for the call. Another advantage of the 5-digit series is that there is a possibility of a corresponding SMS number. The Committee has noted that the high ring price reduces the demand for the special numbers. The Committee would stress that the proposed price regulation harmonises retail and wholesale prices for calls to special numbers and vice versa with end-users for calls to mobile numbers. The Committee points out that the Ministry expects that the proposed regulation could gradually stimulate the increased use of special numbers, which are desirable. The Committee would point out that over several years, there have been challenges with Norwegian special numbers being difficult to obtain from EEA countries. This is due, inter alia, to: high termination prices. The regulation of retail and termination charges for special call numbers is a necessary measure. The Committee is also aware of the fact that a decision has been taken in the EU on the ecosystem, and this will also lead to a desire to have an equal opportunity both in the EU and in Norway at the same prices. Similar national rules are needed to provide Norwegian consumers with equivalent protection against unfairly high prices from the same time as EU citizens. The Committee points out that experience in dealing with extensive market decisions in the broadband and mobile markets has made it apparent that there is a need for a derogation from the three-month period laid down in the Administrative Act. The Committee also draws attention to the experience gained from the Ministry’s appeal proceedings, which suggests that smaller market players often do not have sufficient resources to care for their own interests. So this is an overall setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2977	I think the representative Fasterale has had a good summary of a complicated matter, and I will be quite brief. In this case there is a great deal of consensus, but at the review of the hearing opinions, which were quite extensive, we noticed an opinion that was about asking the government to assess whether it can be made by regulation exemptions for the maximum prices in any case. I would like to draw your attention to it. We have not put any suggestions on this in the case, but the comment has been inserted in the hope that the Council of State has seen it. This is to ensure Norwegian jobs. The reason for the invitation from the opposition is that Norway is far from technologically advanced, and that it costs a lot of money to operate it. At the same time, there are few users in Norway, and it makes it somewhat more expensive to operate mobile solutions in Norway. – This call is given and explained orally.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e2984	Today, we are discussing the proposal of the Ministry of Transport on changes in the law on electronic communications in order to be able to regulate the producer and wholesale prices for calling the special number – five-digit number etc. – in regulations, so that the price level is lower, and that the number resource can be used for its purpose – customer service. It is also proposed to include a new eco-label to set maximum prices for international number-based communication services within the EEA territory in the regulation. The change is intended to ensure that Norwegian consumers benefit from reduced prices of international calls, from both fixed and mobile networks, and SMS from the same time as EU citizens or as close to this time as possible. National communications authorities have for several years tried to contribute to greater competition in calling for special numbers by publishing prices, dialogue with industry and direct calls to providers. However, there have been no lower calls to special numbers, and there is no indication that the providers will award calls to special numbers equal to the basic tariffs on their own initiative. The Ministry is also aware that over several years it has our challenges that Norwegian special numbers are difficult to obtain from EEA countries. It is due, inter alia, to: high termination rates. Regulationing the end-user and termination prices for calling the special number may therefore be a central factor and a necessary and proportionate measure to increase the availability of Norwegian special numbers within the EEA territory. It is therefore surprising to note from the opposition that they would like the government to consider whether it should be possible to derogate from the maximum prices in order to ensure Norwegian ownership and Norwegian employment. This means that Norwegian consumers have to pay more than the maximum price and do not have the same protection against unreasonably high prices as other EU/EEA citizens. In the opinion of the Right, it is not the right way to appraise the rights of citizens, and we recommend adopting changes in the eco-lovables as they are produced by a single committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e3003	The case rapporteur has well explained the content of the proposal submitted by the government, and I am therefore not going to review everything in detail, but I am simply going to make it clear that the government is proposing changes to the ecosystem law that will protect Norwegian consumers from unreasonable prices for international calls and SMS messages from Norway to countries within the EEA and regulate prices for five-digit numbers and other special numbers. This is, as has been mentioned by the representative Abrahamsen, in order to help Norwegian consumers obtain the same rights as European consumers. With the consent of Storting – hopefully – the holidaying Nordics will enjoy this already this summer. Let me then address the concern of the representative Langholm Hansen about a derogation from the maximum price. As the representative Abrahamsen was in, I think it's wise to put the consumer in the center. At present, the performance of established networks in Norway is very good. The ceiling set by the EU includes a relatively good margin to provide operators with cost coverage. In addition, the income flow affected forms a limited part of the total turnover of operators. As a result, the loss of income will also be relatively limited. On the other hand, price regulation could lead to increased use of services and thus increased revenues. I would therefore recommend that Stortinget decide on the matter as presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e3012	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e3028	At the request of the Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e3037	Today is a good day. When we are now to adopt the joint proposal that amends the Education Act, the Swedish Law on Higher Education and the Law on Secondary Education, that means, among other things. that all children from now on will be admitted to camp free of charge. Today this is an offer approx. 20 pst. of primary school students does not have. And I would like to thank the Committee for the good work it has done on this matter. Camp school stays have long traditions in Norway. It's a great way to learn about nature and sustainability, to test out different outdoor activities and to strengthen friendship bonds. Staying away for several nights without Mom and Dad is also a new experience for many children, and it's usually a positive experience because it happens within a safe, educational and fun setting. The experiences and the learning that children get in camp school cannot be re-created in the classroom. Making children aware of and not least safe in nature contributes to mastering, good health and environmental awareness. And we also know that active children learn better. In the past, going to camp school has been a payment activity in many places, and hence there is a group of children who have been excluded, but from now on the camp school experience should be for everyone. The tour bag and sleeping bag shall be packed irrespective of the income of the parents. That means that there are perhaps some of the kids who need it the most, who are now guaranteed the possibility of a camp school stay. Today, we also agree that the school owner should be able to require high school students to change schools. This is already available in primary school but has not been possible in secondary school. Harmonisation of legislation is important, including: to follow the bullying law adopted a few years ago. There we established that there are bullies, and not the one who is being bullied, who are going to replace school if this is necessary. Young people who have experienced bullying must feel safe and safe at school. Therefore, it is good that the legislation now states that the serious penalty for school change is not to be imposed on the victim, but on the bullyer. It also means that the bully can still get school elsewhere and does not have expulsion as the only alternative. We have to facilitate that as many as possible are able to complete the school, and do not have systems that add up to the opposite. Then the next step is to ensure that the legislation is well followed up everywhere. This proposition also provides for a strengthening of minority rights as it is proposed that primary school students who are entitled to Finnish training should also be entitled to training in women, if they prefer it. The proposal helps to strengthen and maintain linguistic diversity in Norway and is important for the preservation of the female cultural heritage. The Government also proposes to legislate for all organisations currently represented in the National Training Cooperation Council to be represented in the counties of vocational training. Finally, it is proposed to prohibit the recruitment of persons convicted of sexual assault against minors, in secondary schools and in higher education institutions. Today, this is a matter of discretion, but the proposal guarantees students in high school equal protection to those in primary school today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e3054	Today we have several important changes for Norwegian school, and I would like to say a few words about two of those changes. I am especially pleased that the government is following up its fight against bullying in school. The work of countering bullying has, and has, been, a high priority for this government, and it has also been something that has taken me a lot, both as a local politician and as a big-scale politician. There's almost nothing that hurts more than hearing about kids and kids who bully, and also about adults who struggle with the consequences of bullying for the rest of their lives. The new legislation, the strengthening of adult skills to prevent, detect and manage bullying and the bullying system in all counties, are all important measures to ensure a safe school environment for children and young people. It is also gratifying that the evaluation of the Educational Environment project shows that the bullying rate has fallen at all the 103 schools involved in the project. The fight against bullying is not won, but too many children and young people are hurting, but this shows that it benefits. Today, we are adopting a new legal provision that provides secondary schools with a new instrument, an instrument that can be used as a last resort when other measures to protect the bullying person do not work, namely that in high school too we can make sure that it is the bullying person who is going to switch schools, not the bullying person. I'm glad that the committee stands together on this, and I'm glad that students in our high school too will be able to be protected from bullying, in line with those in primary school. The second change I want to make here today is the change in the composition of the vocational education and training students, the so-called y terms. I have recorded that some of the hearing bodies have some contradictions with the proposed changes, and this is essentially about the fact that it is essential that the representatives in the y's have local anchoring. I have a great deal of understanding of this. If the y-indicators are to succeed in their work, it is absolutely necessary that all representatives have a good overview of the local situation. Now, however, the different actors will have a right, but not an obligation, to be represented in the y term. I think it would seem rather strange if an organisation would propose to a representative who does not know the local situation, and which would therefore not be able to contribute to the important work, not least to ensure the proper dimensioning of training provision according to the needs of the labour market and available learning places in the region. Therefore, the right supports the proposed changes in the belief that all actors work together towards the same goal and will act accordingly. This is about providing students with good and relevant vocational training, their ability to complete and to ensure the proper competence of regional business. And I am convinced that we are together, both the social partners, the student and teacher organisations and we politicians. If someone against assumption does not contribute in a positive direction, or promotes other interests, I am sure that we will soon hear about it. I'm going to follow up, and I'm sure other local politicians will.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e3071	This is, as many have been involved, a good combination of various legislative changes, which follow up previous debates and decisions in the United Kingdom. To a large extent, it is a unanimous committee that supports this position. I would like to comment on the proposals on camp schools and the exchange of schools for bullies, and then the representative Asphjell will come up with the Workers' Party's view of vocational training students. First of all, for bullying: the Labour Party supports the proposed amendment to the law. There is a slight change in that one extends today's rule to also apply to high school. It's already valid for primary school for some time. We want to point out that there is reason to fear that change will have little real meaning. The NRK has today been able to tell us that only one bully has moved since the law came into force in 2017 for primary school. The working party therefore believes that there is much more to it than the law that is needed to ensure that this is followed up in a good way. One must also increase efforts to combat bullying in several areas, for example, with a preparedness team against bullying, as the Workers' Party has proposed several times. So I'm excited to hear what the Council of State thinks must be done to follow this up, so that this law will have a real meaning and will mean a real change. As I said, we are afraid and worried that the trend that the NRC is describing today will continue. So to camp schools, it's a big saying that we're finally getting the legal duty of a camp school stay. The camp school promotes public health. It uses nature as the learning arena. It promotes outdoor life. One emerges as a theme of climate and environment. In addition, camp school is good for the class environment. It contributes to stronger communities in the classroom, an environmental change through a longer stay outside the school is good for the students to get tested, and the students show new skills. However, the opposition is concerned about the proposal put forward by the government, which is also shared by the Norsk Leirskoleforening, which is afraid that the wording of the law can give rise to an unfortunate and unforeseeable development – that we have an intention to strengthen the camp school, but ends up weakening it. The Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV will meet this concern from the Leirskoleforeningen and confirm in our proposal that we believe there should be four overnight stays, and that one does not intend to weaken the camp school and camp school maintenance. I would then like to address the proposals behind the Labour Party and, in addition, amend the wording of proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV, so it says: ‘The community shall provide students with a clay ball or similar accommodation with a minimum of four nights’ accommodation.’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e3087	The representative Torstein Tvedt Solberg has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e3092	There's been a good account from the other speakers, so I'm just going to spend my time in two areas: There's a ban on high school employment for people who have convictions or perpetrators of sexual assault on minors, and that it opens up school exchanges for students like bullies. Both of these have been in force until now for primary school, but are now extended to secondary school. The requirement for a police certificate for primary school teachers came in time at school for six-year-olds. The certificate shall show whether the applicant is intentional, accused or convicted of sexual assault against children. In 2004, the Progress Party promoted a proposal by a representative that police reports should also be submitted in higher education and that a majority with the Workers' Party and the SV should be ensured. Now we go even further by the fact that the ban on the employment of sexual abusers is also going to apply in high school, and I'm glad that this is now coming into place. In this case, I would like to pay tribute to educational news.no, who has kept the pressure on this team. In a series of articles, they have found that at least 78 employees in school and kindergarten have been convicted of abuse since 2010 and that these and other convictions do not receive jobs in primary school or kindergarten again, but have been able to work in high school and public high school. Furthermore, they have written that at least 250 children in school and kindergarten have been abused by employees. I believe some of the reasons why we see a tightening of the legislation today are due to the many articles that educational news.no has published. In the Progress Party we are, as I said, pleased with this tightening. Security for all is at the heart of the Advancement Party. Children, young people, adults and the elderly are entitled to a safe everyday life. We have already participated in and contributed to the demand for police clearance for those who work in the care of the elderly, and to have an extended police record from day one if you are going to work in the kindergarten. We see no reason why high school students should have a weaker protection against sexual assault than that of primary school, and we are pleased that the Stortinget today adopts this. As far as the bullying law is concerned, we know that thousands of children experience being bullied every week. Not only do many people get damaged in school, but often they also struggle with this for the rest of their lives. In the government, we've got a tougher bullying law in place. We've increased the appropriations to prevent bullying, and we've got bullying agents in place. The result is that we now see the lowest bullying payments ever. They're still too high, but the arrows are going in the right direction. Now, we are further tightening up and broadening the scope of sanctions to include high school exchanges — as a last resort in case of repeated events when considering fellow students.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e3105	In today’s joint text, legislative changes are proposed in different laws, largely on issues agreed between political Norway and the Committee. I'll comment on three of them. Firstly, a now agreed, sail if one has two different suggestions, to legislate the obligation to offer a camp-school stay. It has a bit of a broken history. Back to 2014/2015, among others: The centre party agreed to propose it. It has been voted down, but the intentions have nevertheless been re-examined and also supported by a unanimous committee. Today we are left with a proposal to legislate that obligation, and that is good. What is somewhat objectionable is the rather discretionary concept proposed in the majority’s legal text – ‘camper schooling or other schooling’. It is clear that such a concept is quite discretionary, and what is contained in that concept may well be interpreted quite differently. This is one of the reasons why the Centre Party, the Workers' Party and the SV have proposed a different wording, which is more stringent, and which less allows you to replace camp schooling with a completely different form of schooling. With regard to the issue of also giving access to the imposition of secondary education in order to prevent bullying, I am very pleased that there is an overall committee that supports the comments about that point, which underlines both the need for this home to be introduced, but also the threshold for requiring this exchange to be quite high, and that one must also take care of the individual's right and the ability to complete secondary education regardless of school leave. I think it makes sense that the committee here has chosen to gather in a broad way. In the case of vocational training students, I am actually a little surprised that the government has not been a little more listening to, among other things. social partners, both LO and NHO, and their views on the composition of these topics. As they point out, there may be regional needs governing the composition, and account must be taken of the fact that there may be a wide variation in the composition of the counties to the counties. The legal text is then a little square, and therefore the Centre Party and the Workers' Party have an alternative proposal for that particular point. With that, I would like to address proposal No. 3, from the Center Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e3120	The representative of Marit Arnstad has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e3125	This matter involves a lot at once. And for us who are not so good in «multi-tasking», I must be allowed to concentrate on one thing first and foremost, namely camp school. Using nature as the learning arena is excellent. A camp school where public health, outdoor activities and climate and the environment are at the centre of attention is, for most students, an experience they rarely forget. Therefore, I can't be clearly explained enough how important the obligation for municipalities to offer a camp school stay is. I thought there was a cross-political agreement on this. That's why it's very disappointing when the government comes up with this long-term bill, which has been a dear child for SV for a very long time, they open up so that the law applies to others and shorter school trips – school trips! Like the Norwegian Camp School Association, I believe that this waters down the camp school concept and can lead to municipalities choosing other school trips rather than a camp school stay to save money. This shouldn't have opened it up. Norsk Leirskoleforening is quite concerned, because this legal text opens up that municipalities can still take away students from camp schooling during primary school and instead add up to a completely different trip. It could be a cheap variant that doesn't have the qualities of a fully-fledged camp school stay, and that the law is supposed to ensure that all students. I have also noticed that several hearing bodies raised doubts as to whether the municipalities were adequately compensated for the costs resulting from a statutory act. I am therefore, of course, behind the objections, suggestions and recordings that the representatives Tvedt Solberg and Arnstad made in their contributions, and I hope the Council of State in its statement will clarify to the municipalities how strongly this obligation is.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e3142	I would like to thank the Committee for its swift and good consideration and for its broad consensus on this matter. In primary school, there is a long tradition of taking students on school trips with overnight stays. Today, about 80 pst. of pupils in public schools such offers during primary school. The government wants to ensure that all students in public school get this. I am therefore pleased that the majority subscribes to the government's proposal to legislate an obligation for the municipalities to offer all students a camp school stay or another night school trip as part of primary school education. Within these limits, we believe that there must be a certain room for action. All students have the right to a safe and good school environment. We have legalised zero tolerance and clear action obligations. Competence-enhancing measures improve the prevention, detection and management of bullying by both kindergartens and schools. Schools should work well and address individual issues that arise. To this end, schools need sufficient tools. I am pleased that the Stortinget today agrees with the government's proposal to legislate that students in high school too may be required to change schools, as in primary school. It's not the one who's being bullied that's going to feel forced to switch schools. If other measures are not able to resolve the case, an opportunity will now be imposed on school change if it is necessary to ensure that the other students have a good and safe school environment. The recruitment of persons in kindergartens and primary schools is currently prohibited if the persons on their police record have a statement of conviction for sexual assault against minors. In secondary, in-service and in-service schools, the consequences are assessed on a case-by-case basis. This discrimination is neither satisfactory nor well justified. I am pleased that the government's proposals, which provide the same protection for children and young people in kindergartens, primary schools, secondary schools and high schools, are now being adopted. The Government proposes to grant to all organisations in the National Training Cooperation Council the right to be represented in the counties of vocational training. Vocational training students are an important regional actor in the quality assurance of professional and professional training. The National Cooperation Council has a broader representation. We want to transfer some of this width to the regional denominators. In addition, the government has proposed that primary school students who are entitled to Finnish training should also be entitled to women's training. This is a follow-up to the government’s targeted plan for women’s languages for 2017-2021.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e3162	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e3167	First, I would like to congratulate the Council of State on a very rapid review of a very large number of matters in a very short time. I want to get into some of the things that have been going on in the debate. One is the concern expressed by the Norsk Leirskoleforening about the wording of the legal text, where one is afraid that one waters out the concept and camp schooling with the wording ‘other school trips’, which the government parties are now putting behind. I hope the Council of State can clarify what he might do with the ‘second school trip’, how this should be interpreted. I hope he can at least deny that it will be about e.g.. sewing with at least three overnight stays that will apply during this formulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e3174	In this case, as in other cases, I believe that the Storting should have a minimum of respect for local freedom of action, and I do not have much faith that many will take advantage of this possibility for the South. Personally, I believe that traditional camp school is a very good offer for the students, but we believe that the schools should have a local action room in the choice of what kind of tours they want, based on the obligation the municipalities should have to provide a camp school offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e3181	I hope that one at the same time – even if we are to respect the local space for action – will take seriously the concerns about the legal text, and that at least one from the Council of State will be able to ensure that it is primarily camp schooling this will deal with. It's also Storting's intention, as I see it. I want to take the opportunity to ask about this with a change of school for bullies. As I also mentioned in my post, the NRK has today been able to tell that only one bully has moved since the old law came into force. With interest I heard that the Council of State hoped that the amendment of the law we are making today would improve this. Can the Council of State elaborate a little bit more on how he sees that the change we are making today will be enough for one to get done more with this in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e3188	First of all, it probably doesn't reflect the whole picture in the NRK. What the NRK has done is to have a review of cases in which the County has taken a decision. There may be a number of issues where the challenges have been solved at each school, or where the municipality has taken decisions, and the decision has not been sent to the County Council for final decision. At the same time, I think that practice is quite strict. That is why I believe that the amendment we are now making could be correct, namely that other measures need not necessarily be implemented, but that other measures have been considered – because it should not be the case that the bullying person must feel compelled to change school. We get an evaluation of the new bullying law in June. It will also provide us with a basis for looking at whether guidance and practices need to be adjusted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e3197	It is often the case that this government boasts that it gives great room for action to counties and municipalities. The Council of State also used it as a justification for not saying anything about camp schools, that we must have respect for local freedom of action. What is the reason, then, for one in the legislative text to govern the composition of vocational training students by the State, to go against the recommendations of the LO and NHO, pointing out that regional needs should govern the composition of the subjects and that the vocational training subjects should not become too large? What is the reason why one user respects local freedom of action in one context, but not in another?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e3204	Now the larger the counties, so it might not be a big problem that even these denominators get a little bit bigger. We believe it is right that those who have the opportunity to sit in the central sample also have the opportunity to sit in the regional sample. It is important to reflect the breadth of our working life, and it was a recommendation from the national sample that everyone should have the same opportunity. Local opposition from LO and NHO can be understood, because they have the right to sit in the regional bodies. We believe that the breadth of regional employment should be represented.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e3211	Teachers have stated that they have seen students mature and grow for two years in one camp week. Several schools in the Mountain region visit the coast of clay school, and coastal and lowland schools travel to the mountains, to mention some examples. Part of the success factor for camp schools is that students get to visit a different environment and get settled and have a good stay elsewhere. How does the Council of State see that schools and students will be given the opportunity to have adequate camp schooling if they have only three nights at their disposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e3218	I agree with most of what the representative said, namely that camp school stays are good for the students. That's why the government is now legislating an obligation for the municipalities to offer camp school stays or other overnight trips, within the framework we've put in the proposition. I believe that we must have confidence in the municipalities and in the schools to find good solutions, and precisely because many teachers have the good experience they have, I feel confident that this duty will be carried out in a good way. So I know that the Camp School Association would have liked to see that it was their primary solution that was taken care of, but we believe that here we also have to give a room for action locally to find the good solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e3225	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e3232	As the representative Tvedt Solberg said here, I should like to say something about the vocational training courses related to this matter. The Labour Party would stress that vocational training students play an important role in ensuring the quality of vocational training, in particular in the dimensioning of school places, adequate apprenticeships and a training offer adapted to local and regional conditions and needs. Every year, more than 7,000 applicants do not have a place to learn. At the same time, there is a great need for more skilled workers in the labour market. The Labour Party believes that the objective of changing the composition of vocational training students must be to improve the quality of work in the counties and considers that the proposed legislative changes are poorly justified. The Labour Party would stress that LO, NHO and nine states in the hearing were against the government's proposals, and we believe that it is important to listen to their concerns, that regional needs should primarily govern the composition of the denominators, and that vocational training students should not become too large. The LO also indicates, inter alia, in its consultation response, that vocational training students have a different role to that of the national body SRY. The Labour Party will also refer to the NHO consultation exercise that today there is a wide variation in the composition of the subjects from state to state, and that this shows that today’s law works well. The Labour Party will also stress the importance of good representativeness in vocational training courses, but in this context it must be the labour force of each State or region represented, those to receive trainees, apprentices and trade union workers on the road and after completion of education. Like LO and NHO and others, the working party will does not support the proposed legislative amendment. If the amendment is adopted, we believe that it is important to continue to ensure equal representation between the social partners. It is good that, after the consultation round, the government has clarified that all organisations represented in the SRY will be invited, not obliged, to attend vocational training courses. At the same time, this can lead to a vague and variable composition. We will therefore ask the government to ensure continued balanced representation between the social partners in vocational training and to ensure that the social partners continue to have a majority. In the proposition, the government indicates that this is a recommendation from the working group to SRY, but does not mention how the government plans a systematic follow-up to the 14 remaining recommendations, which both LO and NHO call for in their consultation responses. The LO also stresses that the recommendations are comprehensive and that it is unfortunate that the government is now choosing to follow up only one of the proposals. In the proposition, the government refers to the work of the Song Committee. The working party would stress that the selection is not a party structure. The role of the social partners in the development of vocational and vocational training is an important part of the Norwegian model, and it is unfortunate if extensive changes in vocational and vocational training are addressed without the representation of the parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e3252	Yeah, that's the one with SRY that's made some skulls. SV has noted that the hearing bodies have been divided into the issue of the statutory right of all organisations represented in the national professional and vocational training cooperation body to participate in vocational training courses. The Education Association has long called for vocational training students to mirror the national system of the Party for representation in the Vocational Training Cooperation Council and for the main organisations to be invited into the vocational training subjects. They point out that such a change in the law is also in line with the recommendations of the SRY Working Party, which was established in 2016. We would point out that the LO and the NHO in their hearing replies are dissatisfied with the fact that the government has not followed up on several of the recommended proposals included in the report, and that the proposal to legislate the right to participation in vocational training subjects is thus detached from seeing the strengthening of the work in vocational training courses in a wider sense. SV has noted that the Song Committee in its first report also points to some challenges in today’s vocational training subjects, and that the sample will assess the composition of the subjects more closely in the next setting. In this context, we believe that it is not appropriate to adopt the proposed legislative amendment before the sample has made its assessments, in particular in the light of the disagreement that has also emerged in the Chamber today. SV considers that the composition and further clarification of their mandate and tasks need to be considered in the context of the work and that more time is needed to discuss and anchor the recommendations of the panel before the adoption of the proposals. On this basis, we have allowed ourselves to deliver loose proposals in the Chamber, namely: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with a comprehensive proposal on how to strengthen the work of vocational training students and how the composition of the candidates reflects the overall image of the professional and vocational training, after the Song Committee has delivered its position at the end of 2019.’ I am thus addressing this solving the proposal of the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e3268	The representative of Mona Fagerås has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e3273	I would like to make some additional comments regarding camp school. There have been some critical comments from the opposition parties on the design of the proposal, which are primarily about the length of the stay – whether we are demanding that there be four overnight stays consistent, or whether it is going to require three, but also whether we are going to be able to be open to other types of trips that can satisfy the need that camp is meant to meet. First, I would like to say that getting through free legal camp school for everyone was an important breakthrough for the Left on Jeloea. We're very proud that we did, we've fought for that for many years. It's very important to make sure that it's no longer just 80 pst. of all the children who receive this offer, but 100 pst. I think it's a little sad that some parties have so little faith in Norwegian school owners that you think that not most people actually want to give all the students both a full-fledged camp school stay and a stay that is about just nature, environment and outdoor experiences. All experience suggests that it is actually what they want to prioritise when they first prioritize such a type of offer. I believe that there are good arguments for local freedom of action. Even I was so lucky to live in a municipality that offered two camp school stays – one at primary school and one at secondary school. I think – if I remember correctly – that one was on three nights and the other was on two nights. Then I think it was a very good offer. So if I didn't get four consecutive nights, I've got an incredible amount of good experiences and a lot of learning through such an offer. So the fact that we give the municipalities a certain freedom of action can in many places make you get more than what we set as a minimum. We also sometimes have to remember that. The majority have said that we want to follow. We want us to keep track of how many nights you offer to see if this is a problem. Because I don't think we're going to make it a bigger problem than it actually is. I have faith that schools and Norwegian municipalities will offer all Norwegian children good clay schooling throughout the country, and I think we should celebrate here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e3286	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e3303	At the request of the Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up for the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e3312	First, I would like to thank the Committee for good cooperation on the subject of changes to the Law on Higher Education and the Law on Vocational Education. This bill was at the hearing in the autumn of 2018. So I want to say that the committee is aware that some references are not correct because of a change in the accounting law. We then propose a technical change to these provisions. The Committee supports the legalisation of student access to student ombudsmen at all universities, colleges and colleges. The Committee also supports the clarification of the prohibition and clarification of the obligation of institutions to prevent and prevent harassment. Finally, the Committee supports the harmonisation of the Law on Higher Education and the Law on Vocational Education with the Equality and Discrimination Act and the continuation of the right to individual organisation on the basis of other specific needs in the Law on Higher Education and the Law on Vocational Education. On behalf of the Workers' Party, I would like to stress the following: We are very pleased that the student representative is finally legalised as a result of our proposal for a representative. We want to ensure that all students have equal access to legal assistance to discharge their rights and duties as students. That's also how we perceive Storting's intention. This is precisely why we need to warn that the government's proposals are designed so weak and non-obligatory that the institutions can actually establish student representatives who have neither legal competence, defined tasks nor are physically available to the students. We believe that equal access to legal assistance means that the competence, mandate and availability of student representatives should not vary greatly between educational institutions. That is why we are proposing a national mandate which can be supplemented by local adaptations. We also suggest that the student representatives have legal competence, as is the case with all the student representatives today. And we suggest that students be guaranteed physical access to an agent and not eaten with a network resource. Student ombudsmen shall be resource persons of the students and educational institutions. A practice in which the student ombudsman is not physically available may raise the threshold for student rights to be respected. An example is the case of sexual harassment, where the presence of an agent may be essential to establish trust and security and make contact. With this I address proposals where the Labour Party is a co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e3325	The representative Nina Sandberg has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e3330	With a positive decision in relation to the treatment of Prop. 89 L for 2018–2019, we are today legislating students' access to student representatives at all universities, colleges and colleges – this primarily as a result of the students' persistent efforts over the years. The aim of the law is for all students to have access to a student representative. The Student Ombudsman system is currently not regulated, either by the Law on Higher Education or by the Law on Vocational Education. Nevertheless, today, ten higher education institutions have set up student offices on their own initiative and all these institutions are state-owned. The scheme has proved to be beneficial for the students and for the institutions. For the post-secondary education sector, the student rights have been significantly strengthened in the last few years by the Fachskolegesetz. These changes have resulted in the rights of post-secondary students being essentially equal to those of university and higher education students, as well as in this case. The mission of the Student Ombudsmen is inter alia: to help guide students in complaints, to help resolve matters related to their study situation, at the lowest possible level, and to bring the matter before the Board of Directors or into the institution's quality assurance work. The professional independence of the ombudsmen is a fundamental condition of the ombudsman regime. This means that the student representative cannot be instructed in his/her function. However, we believe that institutions should have a great deal of freedom to choose solutions tailored to local circumstances and needs, and institutions should be free to choose the organisation of the student representative scheme themselves. This includes, inter alia: smaller institutions can cooperate with other institutions in order to establish and offer a joint arrangement with student representatives. Individual institutions may also lay down competence requirements for the Student Ombudsman. For students who consider contacting the Student Ombudsman, it is often essential that they receive advice and guidance without disclosure. Therefore, the fact that a student representative is subject to the rules of the Administrative Act on professional secrecy is very important. Lawmaking student representatives will strengthen students' rights and help ensure a better student working day. I am therefore pleased that an overall committee is behind the recommendation to legislate student representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e3347	This is a good day. It started with the Norwegian student organisation celebrating with cake, and it ends well when the Stortinget now decides on a student representative. We also need to decide on harassment and the organisation of higher education. The Student Ombudsman agreed to join the Center Party for already in the treatment of Meldning. St. 16 for 2016–2017, better known as the quality notification. When the Stortinget now intends to legislate students' access to student representatives at all universities, colleges and colleges, we get full coverage and one of the Stortinget's request decisions is accepted. The government places the student representatives as an independent assistance body. Student ombudsmen have been of great benefit to the students, but also to the institutions. Well-being, motivation and learning are closely linked. Student ombudsmen's mission, to help guide and solve matters as closely as possible to those involved, is important in the everyday life of study. In January 2018, the new Equality and Discrimination Act entered into force, and the prohibition of harassment and sexual harassment results from it. Educational institutions shall be free from harassment and sexual harassment. When we get a clear ban and the obligation of educational institutions to prevent and prevent this, becomes clear in the law, we have expectations that this will have an effect. The Metoo movement has set lasting tracks. The clarification of individual organisation requirements for students with disabilities and students with other specific needs is also provided by the Equality and Discrimination Act. Students with disabilities are now granted increased rights to appropriate individual organisation. Students have the right to equivalent training and education opportunities, including, of course, appropriate individual organisation of the place of study, education, teaching materials and examinations. This is joyous for an inclusive society and for equivalent opportunities that we all want to achieve.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e3360	A student ombudsman is an independent assistance person who has the task of providing advice and help related to the study situation. This means that you can get to the student ombudsman with all kinds of issues: admission, examination, practice, complaints, learning environment issues, cheating, fitness issues and much more. If the student ombudsman cannot help directly, the ombudsman should provide information on where to get help. Today, all Norwegian students have access to a student representative, and it is a very important matter, so this is a good day for student welfare. There has been a long way to this day, but it is still worth celebrating, as the committee did with cake with the NSO earlier today. The government is to be commended – and it is not often I stand on this pulpit and say exactly that – for this to become a reality for all, and for all higher education institutions to establish a student representative, either alone or in cooperation with other institutions. There is a cross-political agreement that the scheme should also apply to higher vocational education. I still want to say something about a topic I think it is necessary to address in this context. Every fourth student — every fourth student — is subjected to sexual harassment. Of course, SV supports the bill, but we would like to stress that a law formulation is not sufficient to combat harassment and sexual harassment in higher education as well as in society for the rest. We have noticed that several hearing bodies point this out. In addition, the bill should have included sanctions. The government needs to give priority to the fight against harassment and sexual harassment in such a way that they quickly assess several measures that support the work of the institutions. All students and employees in colleges, universities and colleges must be guaranteed a school and work environment free of harassment and sexual harassment. In the last year, SV has put forward a number of proposals in Stortinget to strengthen the work to prevent people from being subjected to sexual harassment, including sexual harassment. by proposing a low-threshold offer for the enforcement of sexual harassment cases, the empowerment of equality and discrimination subjects to provide redress and compensation in matters of sexual harassment, and the inclusion of the prevention and follow-up of sexual harassment in the provisions of the Health, Environment and Safety Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e3375	Being a student is in many ways the best time of life. The freedom, flexibility and the ability to immerse yourself in exactly what you like best is something quite unique. Norwegian youth are lucky to have an accessible and free education system, and good loan and grant schemes — which have been further improved with the phase-in of 11 months’ student loans. At the same time, we know that student life can be challenging. The SHOT survey last year showed that the proportion of students with mental disorders has almost doubled since 2010. We have also seen that the Metoo reached the campus. Taking care of our students and investing in student welfare is about investing in the future. We need all the students, and we need to make sure that as many as possible complete the studies. That is why I am pleased that today we are legislating that students at all universities should have access to a student representative. The ombudsmen shall be with the students and shall guide them in the context of complaints, contribute to resolving matters at the lowest possible level and bring matters before the institutional board or into the institution's quality assurance work. This will make it easier for those facing challenges to get help. I'm glad that local freedom is added to how the ombudsman system is set up, because our educational institutions are so diverse. The most important thing is that all students have an agent available when they need it. The other changes in the Law on Higher Education are at least equally important. Sexual harassment is prohibited, and it was prohibited long before the Metoo uprising. Nevertheless, we have seen that the extent of serious harassment has been far greater than most of us might think. The reports have been few and the convictions are even fewer. The issues often have similar characteristics: there is an inequality in power and age, and in most cases the consumption of alcohol. As you can see, students are in a sort of risk group. Most of them are young, they have a weak economy, and they are often in environments where alcohol is consumed. We've seen horrible examples of it being exploited. It is time for politicians to respond to metoo with action, and we are doing so now, in parallel in several areas of activity. I am pleased that Council of State Nybø makes clear the prohibition of sexual harassment and harassment in general, and the obligation of educational institutions to prevent and prevent such harassment, by including it in the law, both for universities, colleges and colleges. But there are also many other measures proposed by the government this spring, which benefit students, although they are not specifically targeted at the university and higher education sectors. Young women are overrepresented among those who experience sexual harassment, and the numbers are higher in some industries, such as the catering and outdoor industry, where in fact many students work. But now everyone who experiences harassment, strengthened rights and better protection. After the Left proposed it in the Storting a few years ago, the Storting will decide on Monday to set up a low-threshold offer for people who have experienced sexual harassment. And tomorrow we will decide to strengthen the alert protection and clarify the employer’s obligation of activity and care in alert cases. All of this helps people get a safer everyday life at their workplace and at their place of study.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e3398	The size study is currently examining proposals for law-enforcement access to student representatives, clearer obligations to prevent and prevent harassment and better organisation for students with special needs. The government now proposes that all students at universities, colleges and colleges should have access to student representatives. A student representative shall be an independent assistance body such as, inter alia: shall help guide students in complaints and contribute to resolving matters at the lowest possible level. The ombudsmen shall provide independent and impartial advice to students and shall provide assistance on matters relating to them, such as: in matters relating to the rights and obligations of students. The bill does not mean that all institutions must have their own representative, but that all students must have access to an agent. This means that smaller institutions can join together on a joint arrangement. Today, twelve universities and colleges already have their own student representative, and several are now working to get an agent in place. In addition, as others have mentioned from the pulpit now, the metoo campaign has clearly demonstrated the need to ensure that students who have been subjected to sexual harassment or other forms of incriminating can receive necessary and good assistance. The government also proposes to clarify universities, colleges and colleges its duty to prevent and prevent harassment. They shall do so through preventive measures, such as: by having clear guidelines for warning of harassment. If they discover that there has been harassment at the institution, they must prevent such harassment from continuing. The government also proposes to clarify in the law that students with disabilities and other specific needs should have the right to appropriate organisation. It shall ensure equivalent training and training opportunities, without compromising the professional requirements of the individual studies. I'll end by saying that I'm glad that there's cross-political consensus on these proposals, which are so important to give students in colleges, colleges and universities a better learning environment. I want to say that if that's how to understand that the committee and the student organization today came together to eat cake, then I think the committee was worth that cake, because it's a good decision for all the country's students made by the Storting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e3415	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e3420	The committee has been very pleasant today and celebrated the law enforcement of the student representative, together with the NSO. To date, the Student Ombudsman scheme has not been regulated. The aim of the law is to ensure that all students have access to an agent to guide them in their rights. The Norwegian Student Organisation emphasises that the decision will significantly improve the legal certainty of the students. We hope that in the Workers' Party too, because that was the very intention when we took the initiative to legislate. Today, all the student representatives have legal competence, as far as I know. That's how we think it should still be. But the government parties do not support our proposals to clarify this. The Council of State is itself a lawyer, and then my question is: Can anyone provide legal assistance, or how does the Council of State see that a student ombudsman should ensure legal certainty and provide legal support without legal competence?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e3430	As the representative points out, I am a trained lawyer myself, and believe, of course, that law schooling gives skills to many and many, and is a solid and good education to have also to carry out the job as a student representative. As the representative himself says, the student representative has legal competence today – I can't vouch for everyone having it, but as I understand it, at least the vast majority of student representatives have it today. I trust that our institutions will carefully assess the competence they believe the student representative must have. The assessments made so far by universities and higher education institutions show that they place great emphasis on what is also the focus of the representative: the legal competence. But I will not reject or ignore the fact that other characteristics and subjects can also be useful. For example, having skills in mediation can also be useful if you are going to do a job as a student representative. But I'm confident that our institutions will evaluate it in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e3435	Of course, teaching places should be allowed locally adapted to the organisation of the student Ombudsman, but some things should not be organised away. One of them is physical availability. We believe that it will undermine equal access and that the threshold for seeking assistance is higher. For this reason, the Workers' Party has asked the Government to make it clear that the educational institutions are to organise the regular physical presence of the student Ombudsman at the study places. As we were in the past today, the NSO has shown that every fourth student is subjected to sexual harassment during the study period and says that the student representative can be an action against the Metoo. The working party believes that just such vulnerable issues mean that the student representative is physically present, not just online or on the telephone. Does the Council of State see that the direct presence of the student ombudsman may be essential in order to establish trust and security in matters of sexual harassment?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e3444	What has been important to the government is that all students should have access to a student representative. This means that they must have practical access. If it turns out that a student ombudsman has too many students, they do not actually have access to a student ombudsman. At the same time, I think it would be impractical if we were to require physical presence. The vast majority of students will be on campus or in the vicinity of a campus where student representatives are available, also physically – so for the vast majority of students it will be possible to do so. But it will be difficult for the smaller institutions and where it is geographically dispersed. Our intention with this has been the access to the student representative. I believe that with today's technology we have opportunities to communicate by phone or online, which means that you get access even if someone is not there physically.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e3449	I used my main post to talk about sexual harassment. I am pleased that several representatives have done so, and that the minister also spent time in his post. I still need to ask how a law enforcement of student representatives will help prevent sexual harassment, how the government prioritizes this work, and whether the minister has several measures in place to ensure that no student is subjected to sexual harassment. Would not more sanctioning possibilities give institutions greater opportunities to stop the problem and take another step at the root?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e3454	I think it was a good post the representative held. The exposure to sexual harassment I think it is important to have all the way, not only when it appears on the agenda in the media, for example. Our sector has challenges in this area. It's a sector that has crooked power relationships. There's a sector where there's sometimes a lot of alcohol involved. It's a sector that itself acknowledges that they have challenges of sexual harassment. And I've been very clear – that's where I know that I have the sector behind me – that we're not going to have it like that in Norwegian universities and colleges. Both students and staff on campus shall have a daily life free of sexual harassment. It's a job that can't be done in a nutshell, it's a job that needs to be done all the way. Universities and colleges themselves have taken this seriously. They work well, for example. The pavements. It works well in the working group that they have set up themselves. And now we also get a student representative in place. But this is a job that has to go on.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e3459	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e3475	At the request of the Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e3484	Here again, I would like to thank the Committee on Good Cooperation once again, now on the proposal concerning the implementation of the so-called Plan S. The Committee had an open hearing on this matter on 30 April. Through the Norwegian Research Council, Norway has joined Plan S, an international initiative for open access to all publicly funded research by 2020, recently deferred to 2021. The Committee notes that there appears to be widespread agreement in the sector on the objective of Plan S, but that there is some uncertainty about the practical implementation and consequences. On behalf of the Workers' Party, I would like to stress that open publication is an important objective. All publicly funded research should be open to all. That means democratization of knowledge. We believe that Norway has good conditions for effective open access work, but we see that much is unanswered about how Norwegian participation can best be implemented, and what consequences the connection will have. This – and the urgency of the Council of State – has created uncertainty and protest campaigns. No one can disagree that Plan S is comprehensive and cumbersome, so why do the government parties disagree so much that the national consequences should be investigated, as the Workers' Party proposed at the time of the adoption of the long-term research and higher education plan? The government could have set aside time and resources to investigate how Norway should be open to publication while at the same time taking into account other important considerations. What does Plan S mean, for example? copyright, recruitment of younger researchers and the position of the Norwegian professional language? The list is longer than that. In order to succeed with Plan S, it is essential to find good solutions and necessary transitional arrangements in close cooperation with the sector. Therefore, it is problematic that the government is in favour of rapid progress, limited information acquisition and late involvement of the parties and organisations. We in the Workers' Party cannot support such a process for implementing one of the most important reforms in the research world for a long time. Therefore, we continue to recommend a comprehensive analysis of risks and consequences. With that, I take up the proposals from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e3501	The representative Nina Sandberg has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e3506	Plan S is important because open access to research results could contribute to stimulating the knowledge economy by providing several user groups with access to high-quality scientific literature. The availability of most of the research literature is limited today by its publication in subscription-based journals. National objectives and guidelines for open access to scientific articles provide that by 2024 all Norwegian scientific articles funded by public funds shall be open to the public. It shall be free for everyone to read and free of charge for individual researchers both to publish and to read research articles. At the same time, it is important that the implementation of Plan S does not restrict the ability of the professional community to publish research results in relevant channels. Therefore, the research sector needs to be involved in finding solutions that enable Norwegian researchers to meet the requirements resulting from Plan S without jeopardising the quality of research. In line with this, Coalition S, the International Consortium of Research Financiers, reports that it aims to carry out needs analyses and to contribute to the establishment and/or transition to journals in areas where there is a particular need for them. The fact that the Ministry of Knowledge’s political leadership is now in close dialogue with the sector, through both the University and Higher Education Councils and the research organisations, is crucial. This dialogue is also important in the implementation of Plan S, both in order to identify which journal is most important to open and in order to find appropriate funding models. So far, so-called publications and reading agreements have been secured with two of the largest market players through the ongoing publishing negotiations. That's good. Plan S shall not conflict with Norwegian legislation on copyright. State Council Nybø has asked Unit, in cooperation with the Norwegian Research Council and the Council of Universities and Higher Education Council, to investigate rights and licensing issues related to the open publication of scientific work and data sets in Norway, including issues relating to the responsibilities and rights of research institutions such as employers and issues related to the possible use of Creative Commons sharing licences, known as CC licences. The investigation shall be completed by 1 September 2019. It is reassuring that political leadership in the Ministry of Knowledge takes the researchers' concerns seriously with regard to Plan S, and we will follow the process closely. But we also need to be able to enjoy today that after decades of talking and good wishes for open publication, Plan S is finally being launched to achieve just this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e3521	I am pleased to be able to debate what has become known as one of the most important and ambitious changes in the research system. This affects both Europe and the world. We all fully agree that there should be full transparency about research results funded through public funds. It makes it easier for men and women in the streets and for businesses to access fresh research. Access to research is valuable and the management of public funds is policy. Plan S is an international initiative for open access to all publicly funded research in a number of countries within and outside Europe. Norway is represented in the process at the Research Council and is one of the thirteen countries that have joined to date. We hope more will join. The requirement of full transparency relating to publication would only apply to projects supported by the Research Council or the EU as of 1 January 2020, but was suspended until 1 January 2021 last week. The transitional arrangements have also been extended until 2024. This is good news for all who thought the plan was too ambitious and would get a hit page. The Research Council has listened to the recordings and the warnings that have been shouted out. The warnings and lack of impact assessment made it necessary for the Centre to present the proposal we are examining here today. It was not clear how all trades and environments in Norway should be cared for, as previous speakers have also mentioned. It's still not, but it was good news that the Plan S coalition softened claims while at the same time pointing out copyright at publishing, to mention something. We note that the Research Association nevertheless believes that the rights of researchers are not sufficiently respected. Research communities have said that they fear Plan S will limit the dissemination of research results or impose disadvantages and increased costs on research environments. When the objective is greater transparency, it is necessary to ensure that Plan S does not lead to the opposite. A survey of the needs of open channels of publication in different disciplines comes early in the summer and will be important. So there is still cooperation across countries and trades that are not part of Plan S per now. Most of the research worldwide is still excluded. There is still a need for what we propose to address, namely the involvement of the research sector in the implementation of Plan S, the protection of professional environments and quality, and that resources do not determine who is given the opportunity to publish. The rights of researchers and the objective must be achieved with open access to the better. We hope the Council of State will also be involved in the dialogue and provide advice to the Research Council in further proceedings. For the sake of order: the opposition stands united, and of course the Central Party supports the proposals that have been taken up.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e3540	All publicly funded research should be open to all. For SV, it's a political goal that we have arrangements that give everyone access. This will democratize research. This transition must take care of researchers as well as society's needs and interests, and precisely the preservation of Norwegian research environments is the basis for the proposals we are promoting today with the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. The transition to open research must take place in close cooperation with those who know the sector best. There has been – as was evident in the consultation – uncertainty about the practical implementation of Plan S and the consequences of its support. There are very many unanswered questions about how Norwegian participation is to be carried out and what consequences will be attached to the plan. Therefore, as early as February, when we discussed the long-term plan for higher education and research, the opposition proposed to assess the risks and consequences of joining Plan S in dialogue with the parties and relevant organisations. This was not the government parties willing to attend, and it is disappointing that the same government parties are not in any of these proposals today, especially in the light of the consultation input we have received in this matter from the sector. Firstly, it is unclear how to ensure the quality of the open channels, and what the transition to open publishing will mean for the management of copyright, for academic freedom and for the recruitment of younger researchers, etc. Secondly, in order to succeed with Plan S, we need to find good solutions and necessary transitional arrangements in close cooperation with the sector. As it looks now, the government chooses to rush into a process characterized by rapid progress, limited information acquisition and late involvement of the parties and organisations. SV cannot support such a procedure for the implementation of one of the most important research reforms for a long time. Thirdly, in addition to academic freedom, the ability to publish their own research is critically important for researchers, but without sufficient access to publication, academic freedom becomes highly damaging, and society misses important knowledge. Therefore, the professional environment must have relevant channels to publish in.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e3555	We can no longer treat research as something of particular interest, which is to be locked in and hidden until it is replaced by something new. No, research, facts and new objective knowledge is the solution to our challenges, and it is medicine against conspiracy theories, solving claims and misinformation, and not least an important source of innovation. Making research funded through our tax money publicly available is actually a matter of value, and Plan S is a liberal answer to populism that spreads in alternative media, in some Twitter accounts and in comment fields. Plan S has become a major international cooperation project for knowledge and transparency. Collecting across countries and continents with a common objective of more knowledge for more is a democratic project and a counter-power. That being said, the proposers have a good point – the introduction of Plan S must take place in dialogue with the sector. There will be a loss if transparency and accessibility are to be at the expense of quality, it must be possible to obtain both. But then we need the scientists on the team. That is why I am pleased that the Council of State is already engaged in such a dialogue process, and we still have time to get all the Norwegian scientific articles funded by public funds publicly available. I have great faith that we'll get it done, and that we're on the right track. That we have secured publications and read agreements with two of the biggest players in the market only during this spring, underlines this as well. It's rarely the government gets criticized for going too fast, and that's kind of funny, but that so many are in, and that there's a certain pace in the process, is also quite crucial for success. Plan S not only changes the way we publish and make available research in Norway, it also forces more transparency internationally. But the work is in progress, and that means that not all questions have been answered yet or can be answered. I am pleased that, among other things, the Council of State take the rights of researchers seriously and that she has ordered an investigation related to copyright issues. It is important that this scheme also becomes attractive to researchers, so that they have good incentives to continue to publish and maintain quality. Openness, democratization of research, is important, and we achieve that with Plan S.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e3570	Openness about results is one of the great ideals of research. Open access ensures better knowledge development and more use of knowledge through the participation of professional users in the workplace and business sectors in the results of research. Open access is a prerequisite for public access to information and a prerequisite for science to be anchored in the public domain. Plan S is an international harmonisation of open access requirements. I support the plan, but I would like to stress the importance of involving the research sector in finding good solutions that enable Norwegian researchers to meet the requirements of Plan S, without jeopardising the quality of research. Therefore, close and good dialogue will be important in the implementation of the plan. Some researchers have been concerned that the pace of the process has been too high, as several representatives have also mentioned from the pulpit. The coalition has listened to the scientists. In the final guide to the implementation of Plan S, the timetable is shifted by one year, i.e. that the immediate open access requirements will apply from 2021. The supervisor also specifies that the coalition accepts several types of transitional arrangements. I am concerned that Plan S should not be contrary to Norwegian copyright law. For this reason, I have asked Unit, the Directorate for ICT and joint services in higher education and research, to address rights and licensing issues related to the open publication of scientific works and data sets in Norway. The investigation shall also clarify issues relating to the responsibilities and rights of research institutions such as employers and issues related to the use of licence sharing. The investigation shall be carried out in cooperation with the Research Council and the Council of Universities and Colleges and shall be completed by 1 September 2019. There is little doubt that Plan S supports the negotiations with the major publishers. Publications and reading agreements concluded by Norway with major publishers Wiley and Elsevier are good examples of the policy on open access being in the process of producing fruit. It is the overall pressure now coming from several countries that helps international groups to reconsider their business models. Plan S is something we've discussed a lot up to now, that's probably something we're going to discuss in the future. But we also have to raise our eyes and see what Plan S is all about. It's about democracy. It's about access to important knowledge for our working life, for our business, for individuals in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e3585	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e3590	Yes, Plan S must take into account important considerations, but other considerations are also important. Norwegian as a professional language is in rapid return. At the same time, the development of Norwegian professional languages is important for working and social life. Internationalisation of research and increasing use of English makes it necessary to pay particular attention to this field, including in terms of what open publication means for the position of Norwegian language. What does the Council of State do to ensure that Norwegian technical languages are maintained and strengthened in the transition to open publication?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e3598	I fully agree with the representative that Norwegian as a professional language is important to focus on, because it is important for the development of our own language, that it is used in the academy. That's why universities also have a special responsibility for that part of our language. We work on different fronts when it comes to Norwegian professional languages, because it is clear that in the academy it is under pressure. We see that more and more master's degrees are written in English, and we see that more and more doctoral thesis are written in English. It is a challenge for the Norwegian language in response to international research. The Ministry of Culture is now working on a language message. There, this issue will be addressed. After the humanities report was submitted, we've given 16 million dollars. kr i support for open journals. We are committed to lifting Norwegian as a professional language also in the ownership dialogue we have with universities and universities. Together with the Minister of Culture, I also organized a seminar on it in the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e3605	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The Council of State stated in November at a seminar in the direction of the Research Association that it is easier to think big and to be bold when we have a predictable framework to deal with. She then referred to the long-term plan for research and higher education. This principle fully agrees with the Labour Party. Why does the Council of State not want predictable frameworks for the implementation of Plan S in the form of a proper decision-making basis for the exchange of today's publication model?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e3612	The major challenge of open access has been – and when we listen to the opposition today, it is still – that it has happened very little. From 2005 until now, a counter-argument has been that it is too fast. In reality, little has really happened in the open access process until the Research Council joined the coalition and Plan S. We have now really gained momentum in the work that ensures democracy, the employer and the business world – and that is important research-based knowledge. It's not without challenges, but it's international challenges. Now we've got a bunch of input. We also see that the coalition has taken into account the observations and objections that have been made, as they have recently provided the supervisor. I've sent out to the hearing what's going on on the publication indicator, precisely because I want to involve the sector in how we're going to prepare for Plan S.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e3619	Here we agree on goals and ambitions. There's nothing new about it. There is also agreement on scepticism, which even representatives of the government parties are taking up from the pulpit here today. What's kind of new is how fast it's going to be part of Plan S. We think it is good to hear that the Research Council adjusts the course for the work, but we still hope that the Council of State will take the signal that we should rather be leading were for our research environments than soon. We have no one to lose, we also want more drawing. Now comes the identification of the needs for open channels of publication and the investigation of copyright from Unit. In the name of the afterwatch: Should pages of Plan S have been identified and verified in advance?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e3630	I have heard several opposition politicians from the pulpit today mention Plan S as one of the most important things that have happened in this field for a long time. And I totally agree with that, because it's a big change that's now about to happen. We're shifting power from the big publishing houses, the ones that make billions of dollars in publicly funded research. We open up the research, we make it available to people. The difference between the government and the opposition in this matter is that we are doing something on our guard. That's when it finally happens. We've been talking about open research since 2000 or another. It's always been one of the great ideals of research, it's always been a goal we've agreed on, but now something's happening. I understand that it is not without resistance. I understand that it is not without worries. I am concerned that we should have good dialogue with the sector. I enjoy the progress we have made every day, and it was a great victory when we arrived at the agreement with Elsevier relatively recently.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e3635	I expect the Council of State and I to agree that it is the sector that knows research every day the best, and what is served by a well-functioning research system. Good dialogue requires real involvement of the university and higher education sectors and the institutional sector. State councils assured in their statement that this will happen. But what kind of concrete measures apart from dialogue, which I assume the Council of State is facilitating, does she intend to join?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e3640	Now it's part of our sector that runs the process. It is the Research Council, and it has, together with research councils in other countries in Europe and the rest of the world, joined forces in this coalition. The Research Council also knows the sector well and is part of it. They have also been engaged in dialogue with the various researchers around the universities and our colleges. The representative is asking for specific measures. Several have mentioned the investigation that Unit is now going to do. In addition, we have sent out to consult proposals for changes, which go on the publication indicator, which is part of the funding system of universities and colleges. We've submitted to an open hearing, and we've been very clear that the government hasn't decided. We want to hear the sector because the job they're going to do is influenced by how we reward the different publications in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e3647	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e3661	We are then ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e3670	During the debate, Mr Melvær presented a proposal on behalf of the Right and the Progress Party. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e3682	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e3694	The proposal by the Right and the Progressive Party is being put to the vote. The proposal reads as follows: ‘I Law No. 22 May 1981 No. 25 on the procedure of criminal proceedings is amended as follows: Paragraph 147, first paragraph, is replaced by the following: Any person serving as a forensic expert shall immediately send the forensic commission a copy of the written declaration which he makes to the court or the prosecution authority. For interim declarations as referred to in the fourth paragraph of Section 165, this applies only if the declaration is to be submitted to the court. The obligation to transmit information also applies to statements on legal psychiatric matters drawn up by persons who are the parties to the proceedings under Section 149 if the statement is to be submitted to the court. § 165, second paragraph, No. 2 and 3 are replaced by the following: 2. compulsory care under Section 63 of the Criminal Code; or 3. maintenance of response as referred to in paragraph 1; 1 and 2 under Section 65 of the Criminal Code. § 165, second paragraph, No. the 4th is deleted; Paragraph 165, fourth paragraph, is replaced by the following: If there is doubt as to whether a judicial psychiatric examination is necessary, the prosecution authority or the court may decide to obtain a preliminary statement from an expert for guidance on this matter. The requirement for stability in the second paragraph of Section 165(a) applies as far as possible to the expert. Paragraph 165(a) is added as follows: Paragraph 165(a) Two experts shall be appointed to carry out a judicial psychiatric examination under the first and second paragraphs of Section 165, unless the court finds that there is sufficient one or that the case requires more than two. One of the experts must be an authorised specialist. If several experts have been appointed, one of them must work clinically. The person who would have been involved as a judge in the case under § 106 or 108 of the Law of the Court of Justice shall not be appointed as an expert for the purpose of carrying out a judicial psychiatric investigation under the first and second paragraphs of Section 165. Nomination should be avoided where the link with another expert in the case is appropriate to weaken the confidence of the expert. Before appointment, the expert shall submit a declaration of his own motion to the court. In the self-declaration, the expert shall disclose his/her education, clinical experience and matters relevant to the stability and independence assessment referred to in the second subparagraph. The King may prescribe requirements on the competence of experts, the self-declaration of experts, on requirements for the psychiatric declaration and on the tasks of the National Unit for the Psychiatric Expertise. Paragraph 167, first paragraph, second and new third and fourth sentences are replaced by the following: The Court of First Instance shall set a time limit for the duration of the application. The time limit shall be as short as possible and shall not exceed eight weeks. That period may be extended by a period of up to four weeks at a time. Paragraph 168(a) is added as follows: Necessary information relating to the health of the intended person may be divulged to the experts carrying out a judicial psychiatric examination, even if the intended person does not consent to such disclosure. This is only true in cases of offences that may result in prison for more than six years and where the outcome may depend on whether or not the intention is probable. II In Law 2 July 1999 No. 62 on the establishment and implementation of mental health protection is amended as follows: The third sentence of the second paragraph of Section 5-3 is replaced by the following: If the sentenced person has been sentenced under the General Civil Code on 22 May 1902 No. 10 § 39 nr. 1 or 2 or the first paragraph of Section 62 of the Penal Code shall pay particular attention to the need for social protection. Paragraphs 5 to 3 shall be replaced by the following: Where special considerations so require, the prosecution authority shall be consulted professionally before convictions are transferred between different levels of safety within the same institution or be granted leave. the second sentence of the first paragraph of Section 5-4 is replaced by the following: The Control Commission tests whether the decision appears unreasonable in view of the conviction, the life, health and freedom of others, the locational options and other circumstances. §§ 5-6, 5-7 and 5-8 are deleted. III In Law 18 May 2001 No. 21 on the implementation of penalties, etc. It shall be amended as follows: Paragraph 10 first and second paragraphs shall be replaced by the following: Prison sentences and custody can be implemented a) in prison with a high level of safety [[closed prison]] b) in lower-security prisons [[open prison]] (c) in transitional accommodation; (d) outside prison with special conditions under Section 16; or (e) as subject to conditions laid down in the second paragraph of Section 43. High-level prison wards may be organised for prisoners with special needs, including those sentenced to detention, or set up with a particularly high level of security. the third paragraph of Section 11 is replaced by the following: Judgments with special needs, including those sentenced to detention, should be inserted in the Chamber organised for this purpose in accordance with the second paragraph of Section 10. IV In Law 20 May 2005 No 28 on punishment shall be amended as follows: Section 20 is replaced by the following: § 20 Debtability The person who, at the time of action, is under 15 years of age is not liable for criminal law. The same applies to those who, at the time of action, are unpredictable because of: a) strongly abnormal state of mind b) severe disturbance of consciousness; or c) a high degree of mental retardation. The uncertainty assessment referred to in the second subparagraph shall focus on the degree of failure of reality and functionality. Anyone who is transitory because of self-inflicted intoxication is not exempted from punishment, unless specific reasons warrant it. Any person who has a persistent condition referred to in point (a) of the second subparagraph and who causes an irregularity by himself may be punished for specific reasons. Paragraph 25, third paragraph, is replaced by the following: It is disregarded for ignorance as a result of self-inflicted intoxication. In such cases, the offender is judged to have been sober. Similarly, if he was in a self-inflicted unaccountability condition. Paragraph 62 is replaced by the following: § 62 Conditions to be imposed on the transfer to mandatory mental health protection A criminal who is unreliable under the second to fourth subparagraphs of Section 20 may, by judgment, be transferred to mandatory mental health protection when he has committed or attempted to commit a crime that violates the life, health or freedom of others or could endanger those assets, the special reaction is necessary to protect society, and the danger of a new and serious breach of integrity is imminent. Transfer to forced mental health protection may also be sentenced to a criminal offence which is unreliable under the second to fourth subparagraphs of Section 20 when it has committed repeated offences of a socially harmful or particularly burdensome nature, the special reaction is necessary to protect society from such offences, the risk of new offences of the same nature is particularly close, and other measures have clearly proved inappropriate. In assessing the recurrence risk, attention shall be paid to the offence committed in particular in relation to the other behaviour of the offender, the history of disease, the current mental state and the relationship with drugs. Transfer to forced mental health protection can also be condemned when the state of irregularity has resulted in the offender being in actual error, cf. Paragraph 25, or that the offender was otherwise in a condition that is incompatible with having continued. Paragraph 63, first paragraph, is replaced by the following: Under the conditions referred to in Section 62, the person who is unreliable under the second to fourth subparagraph of Section 20 may be subject to compulsory care. Paragraph 65, third paragraph, second sentence, is replaced by the following: In the event of a special reaction on the basis of the offences referred to in the second paragraph of Section 62, no termination may be sought within six months of the final judgment of the transfer or of the judgment refusing to terminate. Paragraph 65, fourth paragraph, third sentence, is replaced by the following: Special reaction on the basis of offences referred to in the second paragraph of Section 62 shall expire at the latest three years after the transfer judgment. Paragraph 78(d) is replaced by the following: d) at the time of action, the offender has reduced a sense of reality due to abnormal state of mind, mild mental retardation, disturbance of consciousness or a strong movement of mind; Paragraphs 80(f) and (g) are replaced by the following: f) at the time of action has a significant deterioration in the understanding of reality due to a highly abnormal state of mind, mental retardation or disturbance of consciousness, but is not unpredictable under the second paragraph of Section 20; (g) has acted under self-indebtedness or in a self-indebtedness condition under the fourth paragraph of Section 20 and there are particularly mitigating circumstances; The current letters i and j become letters h and i. VT 1st@item: inlistbox The law applies from the time the King rules. The King may bring into force the individual provisions at different times. 2nd@item: inlistbox Judgments transferred to the institution under criminal law under Section 5-6 of the Mental Health Act shall be returned to mental health protection within one year after the repeal of Section 5-6 has entered into force. 3rd@item: inlistbox The king may specify transitional rules’. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e3944	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e3958	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e4364	It is votered over Section IV(17g). Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e4378	All remaining Roman numerals and paragraphs are added.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e4388	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e4398	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e4407	During the debate, Mr Frølich put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right and the Progressive Party. The proposal reads as follows: «Act No 22 May 1981 No 25 on the procedure of criminal proceedings is amended as follows: ‘ the second paragraph of Section 318 is replaced by the following: The Court of First Instance may not rule on questions of rejection if it considers that the appeal must be refused in accordance with the second paragraph of Section 321 or the third sentence of the first paragraph of Section 323, or that consent must be refused in accordance with the first paragraph of Section 321 or the first sentence of the first paragraph of Section 323. Paragraph 321 third paragraph is deleted. The current fourth to sixth terms are going to be the third to the fifth terms. The fourth sentence of the fourth paragraph of Section 321 is replaced by the following: The decision referred to in the second sentence of the third subparagraph shall be justified where the appeal falls within the scope of the first sentence of the second subparagraph and new observations have been made in the request for conversion.’;» Alternatively, this proposal and the suspension of the Committee § 318 others are voted on. the paragraphs and the third paragraph of Section 321. The Committee had decided to refer the following decisions to the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e4525	All remaining Roman numerals and paragraphs are added.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e4535	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e4545	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e4554	During the debate, Mr Andersen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the Act of 15 May 2008 on the admission of foreigners to the Kingdom and their residence here, point (c) of the first paragraph of Section 94 shall be replaced by the following: (c) a decision on expulsion is unlikely to take place until the foreigner has remained in the State for three months or the request for withdrawal from another country will be promoted.» Alternatively, this proposal shall be contested and the first paragraph of point (c) of the first paragraph of Section 94 of the Committee shall be deleted. Red has announced support for the proposal. The Committee had decided to refer the following decisions to the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e4658	All remaining Roman numerals and paragraphs are added.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e4669	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e4679	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e4688	A total of seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Siri Gåsemyr Staalesen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 2 and 3, by Heidi Greni on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 4–6, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 7, from Bears Moxnes on behalf of Red There is a vote on proposal No. 7 from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to determine how to prohibit dividends, group contributions or other means of transferring rent income from municipal housing to other parts of the municipality’s business, and to return to Stortinget with proposals for necessary legislative changes.’ The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e4720	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4–6, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to submit proposals for legislation to ensure the financing of and municipal obligation to provide housing to homeless and other disadvantaged persons who are unable to provide housing for themselves.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals for changes to the House Rental Act so that municipalities cannot require market rental or rent for social housing or residential housing in municipal ownership, as well as for establishing a new mechanism for long-term and predictable pricing based, inter alia, on income.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking for review of the Housing Rental Act and for proposals for amendments to strengthen the lessee’s rights in, inter alia, co-determination and regulation of rentals.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e4749	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: «The government is asked to ensure that grant schemes through the Husbank are strengthened in order to realise several rental-to-owner models.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to limit the possibility of using dividends from municipal housing to other parts of the municipality’s business. Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e4773	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to complete and initiate a test scheme in which the public can enter into housing as a joint owner by up to 15 pst. of the purchase price upon application by persons who are able to serve a mortgage but who do not have equity.» Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e4805	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e4824	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e4840	During the debate, Nils Kristen Sandtrøen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to continue the current professional environment and regional structure of the Veterinary Institute so that one can continue autopsy as at present.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. Red has announced support for the proposal. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e4870	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1–6, from Øystein Langholm Hansen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government’s proposal for amendments to the Professional Transport Act is returned to the Government in full’. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a rollover message about the taxi industry as much more than Prop. 70 L takes into account the heavy, critical consultation opinions of the Committee hearing thereon, not least the opinions of the industry itself and the districts. [[2018–2019]] The notification must take account of the fact that taxis remain part of the overall public transport offer with geographical coverage throughout the country». Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the maintenance of the need for testing of privileges and duties as they are today’. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a return to the Grand Duchy with proposals for a framework for price regulation/maximum prices similar to that introduced by the other European country’. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to explore alternatives that ensure better use of public ordering of taxi transport for the driving of patients, school students and TT driving, etc., and to return to the Stortinge in an appropriate manner’. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked either to maintain the requirement of taximeters or to introduce technical systems which offer at least equal opportunities for the transparency and control of public authorities granted by the taximeter.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e5076	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e5088	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e5102	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e5111	A total of seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Ingarill Olsen, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 4, by Ingarill Olsen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 5, from Siv Mossleth on behalf of the Centre Party the proposals No 6 and 7, from Arne Nävra on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6 and 7 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose an addition to Section 1 of the Act which ensures that the law also promotes safety and well-being for users of recreational craft and other users of ports and waters, and to ensure that environmental values are taken into account along the coast’. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a supplement at an appropriate place in the Port and Water Law where it is established that military vessels carrying nuclear weapons do not have access to Norwegian ports.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e5150	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-3 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to set aside funds to upgrade shore-side electricity and charge current in publicly owned ports’. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the end of 2019 to propose measures to strengthen the transfer of goods by sea’. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to propose a legislative amendment to allow municipal authorities to impose environmental requirements on ships for calls. This may relate to sewage treatment requirements, waste management and the possibility of connection to shore-side electricity. Whether or not international agreements prevent this, the government is asked to come back to the biggest with an appropriate explanation of this.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e5179	There is a vote on proposal No. Five from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the Law on Ports and Waters, the third paragraph of Section 32 shall be replaced by the following: Port capital from ordinary port operations may not be used for purposes other than port activities, including operations, maintenance, rectification, expansion and development’.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e6152	Alternatively, the third paragraph of Section 32 and the proposal No. 4, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Article 32, third paragraph, shall be replaced by the following: Values may only be distributed from the municipal port operations if the remaining equity is sufficient to ensure the proper operation, maintenance and development of the port activities in line with the purpose of the law. Distribution is any transfer of values directly or indirectly benefiting the owner. In the event of the realisation of the property of the municipal port activity, adequate provisions shall be made for the necessary new facilities before distribution after the first sentence can be made.’;» The centre party and Red have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e6172	It shall be added to all remaining chapters and paragraphs. Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e6186	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e6200	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e6210	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Øystein Langholm Hansen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 2 and 3, from Øystein Langholm Hansen on behalf of the Workers' Party the proposals No 4–6, from Siv Mossleth on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4–6, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: «The government requests the continuation of today's load rate with delivery five days a week. This must be done in order to meet the social needs covered throughout the country throughout the current system, which meet the requirements of a high-quality cross-border communication service.’» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government, in cooperation with the Post Norway AS, is asked to identify the possibilities of additional revenue for the post by opening up new services in addition to traditional mail delivery. The Government shall return to the Storting before the summer of 2020 with up-to-date estimates of the cost in the years to come of maintaining the carryover.» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a case that reclassifies Post Norway AS as a category four company, that is, a company that aims to achieve sectoral policy objectives, and not just business ones. Ownership shall be justified by the objective of ensuring a nationwide postal offer every day of the week.’;» Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e6251	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that mail delivery on weekdays, Monday to Friday is continued until all households have sufficient broadband access.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to prepare, and submit to the Stortinget, a timetable for when all households may have sufficient broadband access’.» Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e6275	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to indicate that the Post and the tenderers in the compensation scheme proposed are coordinated and complementary so that the resources are used in the best possible way according to the consultation by the National Association of Media Companies and several other actors, so that a variable-day tender is published on the days on which the Post is not to be distributed.’ Red has announced subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e6332	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e6344	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e6359	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e6450	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e6460	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e6469	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Torstein Tvedt Solberg on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Torstein Tvedt Solberg on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party proposal No 3, from Marit Arnstad on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 4, from Mona Fagerås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to compensate the municipalities for the increased expenditure resulting from the legalisation of the right to camp school, and to ask the government, in cooperation with the KS, to assess the need for further appropriations.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e6501	There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with a comprehensive proposal on how to strengthen the work of vocational training students and how the composition of the candidates reflects the overall image of the professional and vocational training, after the Song Committee has delivered its position at the end of 2019.’ The Labour Party and Red have announced their support for the proposal. The centre party has notified subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e6518	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The second paragraph of Section 12-3 of the Training Act is replaced by the following: The following shall include members with personal alternates who shall have a broad understanding of the entire professional and professional training and of the issues of business and employment. Members of the social partners shall be mentioned in all respects on a proposal from the employment organisations and on a proposal from the employers' organisations. The social partners shall have a number in mind. In addition, at least one representative of the elephants, apprentices, practical letter candidates or apprentices shall be named on the basis of proposals from organisations or bodies representing them. The county council may ask the teachers’ organisations for proposals for members under the heading.» Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e6540	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal was amended in the course of the debate and now reads as follows: ‘In the Training Act, the following paragraphs 13 to 7(b) are inserted: The municipality shall provide students with a clay ball or similar accommodation with at least four nights’ accommodation in conjunction.’» Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e6759	It is contested by the second paragraph of Section 12-3. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e6773	It is voted over new sections 13-7(b). Red has notified subsidiary aid to the suspension. The Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e6789	All remaining Roman numerals and paragraphs are added.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e6799	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e6809	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e6818	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Nina Sandberg on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 2 and 3, from Nina Sandberg on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked by the Government to establish a general national mandate for the student representatives on which the educational institutions can rely.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the student representatives have legal competence.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e6851	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to make it clear that educational institutions are to facilitate the regular physical presence of student representatives at the places of study.’; Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e7088	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e7098	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e7107	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1–6, from Nina Sandberg on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to investigate how Norwegian professional languages can be preserved and ensured in the transition to open publication.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to involve the research sector in the concrete implementation of Plan S.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that all disciplines will continue to have relevant channels for publishing their research results.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that quality and not resources determine who has the opportunity to publish research results.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assess the need for, and explore possible transitional arrangements for, the implementation of Plan S.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that Plan S does not conflict with Norwegian copyright law.’ Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up. Red has announced support for the proposals. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e7181	Thus, today's map has been processed. The representative, Sverre Myrli, has asked for the floor before the sitting is closed, with reference to the second paragraph of Section 54 of the Rules of Procedure. The President agrees to give the floor to the representative, thus giving the floor to Mr Sverre Myrli, who has a speaking time of up to 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e7188	The surprise was great today early when we got the idea that the presidency with the three-to-three votes had decided to postpone the treatment of Prop. 81 S for 2018-2019 on the deployment of E18 in Telemark and Prop. 82 S for 2018-2019 on the deployment of E6 in Trøndelag. The two cases were submitted to the Transport Committee on 28 May – as planned. It has always been suggested that the two issues should be debated in Stortinget on 5 June. And until this morning it has been on the Stortinget meeting program. Earlier today, according to the NRK, Prime Minister Tone Wilhelmsen Trøen must have stated: ‘A majority of the Transport Committee has applied to the Presidency to move the debate date for two cases until 19 June.’;» This matter has never been dealt with in the Committee, i.e. to postpone the date of the debate. Later today we had committee meetings. It was not on the agenda, but the opposition parties raised the matter under any circumstances. It was explained that the government parties in the transport committee came up with this last night, and it was in principle that the government parties now believe that the two mentioned toll cases should be dealt with together with the third major toll case being dealt with in the Stortinget, namely the development of E6 in Hedmark and Oppland. Prop. 119 S for 2018-2019 on the development of E6 in Hedmark and Oppland was presented by the government on 24 May – four days before the committee decided on the other two cases, which were therefore to be dealt with tomorrow. Here's something that's not right. The government parties had had plenty of time to suggest that all three cases should be dealt with on the same day in Stortinget. It could have been suggested at an earlier time, but this was something that came to mind last night – and it is basically that you want the three cases to be dealt with at the same time, it is claimed. It is probably only the representatives of the government parties in the transport committee and the three members who represent the majority of the Presidency of the Grand Duchy who can at all try to argue that this has nothing to do with tomorrow's crisis meeting in the Progress Party. Yes, perhaps also the Prime Minister, because she has confirmed during the day today that she has been involved in the decision of the presidency. I find it a pity that the majority of the presidency can be used in such a party political game instead of standing up and dealing with the matter in principle. Is it now that if you find it unpleasant to deal with a matter in Stortinget, it is only to send an e-mail to the prime minister, and then the matter is taken by the map and dealt with in a later meeting? Here we have to get a reason from the presidency's majority for what's been going on in the back room. Why was it all of a sudden completely necessary to put the two toll cases at risk?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e7208	The Presidency today considered at an early stage a request from the parties which are in the majority of the Committee on Transport and Communications to move the debate into two cases from 5 June to 19 June. The majority of the presidency made a decision that matters will be dealt with in the Stortinget on 19 June, at the same time as Prop. 119 S for 2018–2019. The majority of the Presidency supported the justification given by a majority of the parties to the Committee on Transport and Communications that it would be neat and appropriate to consider all the proposals on road projects financed by tolls on the same day of debate. The Presidency examines a number of requests and requests for a deferred deadline and changes to the dates of the debate. Similarly, today's request by a majority of the parties to the Committee was also examined in the Presidency. In accordance with the third paragraph of Section 7 of the Rules of Procedure, the vote of the Grand President is decisive in the form of a vote, and, as the representative Myrli referred to, the presidency's vote ended with three votes in favour, and then my vote, the vote of the Grand President, is decisive.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e7215	The President will now allow one representative from each of the other groups to speak, with a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e7220	As the representative of Myrli explained, the Committee on Transport and Communications has three toll proposals for consideration this summer. Two of them have been released, and it is correct, as the representative Myrli says, that they were initially set up for treatment tomorrow, Wednesday. The third is to be examined in the Committee and will be examined and released before the summer and is initially scheduled for consideration on 19 June. From our perspective, based on the discussions we have had between the government parties in the Transport Committee – Right, Advance Party and Left – we have come to the conclusion that we think it would be useful for the three toll proposals to be dealt with at the same time. We see that we will certainly have a rather significant toll debate linked to the toll proposals, which will go far beyond what is really going on, namely to finance these projects. We look forward to such a debate, but we think it is appropriate that we deal with this on the same day and may have an overall debate. That's why we proposed, and asked the President-in-Office, to move the two toll proposals that were set up for treatment tomorrow, Wednesday, to take them on the same day, on June 19. It has been honoured by the President-in-Office and the presidency, and I am pleased. I look forward to having a good and meaningful debate related to the three projects, but I am quite convinced that we will also have a quite comprehensive toll debate, which is natural as the political landscape looks right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e7229	On 9 April, the government – with the Right and the Advance Party at its head – presented to the Stortinget proposals for two toll projects, two projects for which more than 10 billion will be required. kr in increased tolls. The matter was handed out by the Committee over a week ago, and let me make it clear: the proposal was presented by a Progress Party Council, approved by a Progress Party Finance Minister, and the vote clearly shows that the Advance Party Group fully supports the call for these 10 billion. kr in increased toll charges. I have to say it is very remarkable that the matter is so proposed deferred. Why will the presidency put forward a matter for the Government of the United Kingdom, for which the government has been able to take effect in the United Kingdom, a matter which has been dealt with in the Committee for a long time? It's not that one has a lot of that kind of enquiries, as the president said. Paragraph 35 of the Rules of Procedure requires much more to change the next week's programme in Stortinget. The question has to be: Will it from now on become common practice to postpone cases in which one of the government parties suddenly seems uncomfortable to vote for their own proposals and for their own policies just on one particular day? Or – more precisely – it is that one now adds that the Progress Party instead of voting for 10 billion. kr in increase tomorrow and 5 billion. kr in two weeks to vote for 15 br. kr in increased tolls in two weeks? That's what would have been the reality if this were a case. If this is a matter, if the government wants to change the policy, it would be natural to ask that the matter be drawn, or it would be natural to promote new proposals in the matter. The fact that the Prime Minister intervenes in the proceedings in Stortinget is quite amazing. It shouldn't be the presidency of the Storting, because the presidency is to be the presidency of the whole Biggest, not for half the Biggest. The presidency of the Great Britain should not be used in a purely political game. This case is embarrassing, just plain and simple.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e7240	Yes, it is true that the majority have asked to coordinate three fairly similar propositions, all three of which are about New Roads. And yes, it's not unnatural that it takes a little while from giving up until you have the debate in the hall. I also believe that all the representatives in all the committees have received a recommendation from the presidency to think a little about speaking time, because there are many issues before the summer. It has not been easy for the Committee on Transport and Communications. This is a good contribution to bringing together the debates about three fairly similar propositions, all of which are about New Roads and Tolls. And yes, I also believe that all the representatives of all the parties, especially the opposition, know how these debates are taking place in this Chamber. It is rare to actually debate the proposition – what it is about, the individual route and purpose – but it often becomes a debate about the Progress Party and what someone promised in 2013 and 2009. It's sad for the things it's about. For the Progress Party, it is important to bring them together, and we would like to take the debate on the 19th. We warmly welcome that. I think it is more effective and good – both for the Stortinget and for the Norwegian people.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e7247	Here I stand with these famous three propositions, where it's written with thousands on the front page how many billions we're talking about. I will not continue the debate on tolls here, which was invited by the representative Arnstad. I'm not going to do that. But I notice that at least there have been two regrettable things. One is that it was referred to the majority of the committee, that it was those who had sent an address to the presidency. So it wasn't. It was the majority parties that had done that. The chairman of the committee is so sorry at the committee meeting today, and we take note of that. But then I also hear that it was the president who was either misquoted or actually used the term "comité plural," and it was also wrong, because it has not been dealt with at all. What I think is very bad, first of all, is that in this way we destroy the practice in the hall in such matters. It is also very regrettable that it is destroying the cooperation climate in the committee, which has so far been very good. Well, there's no one here in the hall who thinks it has something to do with practical arrangements for three things to do, that we have this case in the hall now. This has to do with the political errors and the political ghosts that are wondering in the form of some new parties out there. We have to be honest about this. If I were to give a recommendation to those who have brought this matter into a majority constellation, it might have to be dividing the toll problems into two.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e7260	The President then gives the floor to questions and answers, which have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes each.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e7266	The President-in-Office of the Council, Tone Trøen, said that the presidency often receives requests from the committees to postpone the time of delivery and to postpone the dates of debate. Yes, it happens often. But I can never remember that it has happened without there being a reason for it. It is true that the committees will have to be delayed and have to have more time before they can be set up. It happens that it has to be moved on debate dates – perhaps because a government council has left. It happens. But then there's a reason. There's no reason why this suddenly had to be postponed. In addition, these cases have been finalised. They were on the agenda for tomorrow's debate. In addition, I have to say, it is a good thing, if things like this happen, that it is included in the committee, then a majority of the committee adopts it – you take a vote, majority against minorities, and the majority is right. We had committee meetings on the transport committee today at 4 p.m. 11, and the government parties did not even find it worth putting it on the agenda, not even informing it under any circumstances, before the opposition parties took it up. It smells like this. This is simply very unfortunate. I think Helge Orten and Morten Stordalen let the cats out of the bag. They were afraid that there would be an extensive toll debate in Stortinget. Morten Stordalen was afraid that there would be a debate on the Progress Party. Think about it! They were afraid that we would debate tolls for two days – that we would spend two days discussing 15 billion. kr instead of spending one day and cutting down on speaking time. No, President, this is very unfortunate, and I must say I am most disappointed that the majority of the presidency has let themselves be used in this game. The members of the Presidency are our trusted electors. The members of the Presidency are elected by confidence for the whole of Stortinget, for all the representatives of big business. And the members of the presidency are responsible for following Storting's Rules of Procedure, for having matters properly dealt with, and for all the parties involved feeling comfortable with the way we deal with matters, and the way in which we decide how the Storting should work. President, it is a pity that the majority of the presidency has allowed one party to be used for purely party-tactical purposes in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e7279	The background to the request of the parties which are in the majority of the Committee on Transport and Communications has been highlighted by speakers other than myself. I explained in my first speech that the majority of the presidency supported the justification given when the request was made. The presidency dealt with it this morning early. I need to comment on the implications of breaches of the Rules of Procedure, because this is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure. The agenda shall be published no later than 24 hours before the staging meeting. Paragraph 35 of the Rules of Procedure states: ‘The published weekly programme referred to in the first and second sentences of the first subparagraph and the agenda published may not be waived without having to do so.’;» The agenda was not published before this resolution was taken, so there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure that has happened here. A decision was taken before noon. 10 today, and then the agenda was announced. It is very important for me to stress, because I believe it was insinuated that there was a breach of the Rules of Procedure, that we waived the Rules of Procedure – that is, it was not done in this case. That happens to be a minority and a majority in the presidency as well. It's rare, but it happens. It has also happened in similar cases in the past. However, I believe that the majority of the Committee has explained – i.e. the parties that represent the majority of the Committee – why they justified the request they made yesterday. So I have probably expressed myself a little inaccuracies in the interview with NRK today. I would say that it was the majority of the parties in the committee and not the majority in the committee. I'm sorry. Then I also notice that in this debate the committee chairman has also mentioned, at least others have mentioned, that he has regretted it at the committee meeting, and that it was an incorrect mention.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-04.ana.ud396e7295	This concludes this debate, at least in this Chamber. Would you like a word before the meeting is cancelled? So it doesn't seem, and the meeting is cancelled.
