ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e74	The representative of Åsunn Lyngedal, who has been licensed, has once again taken the seat. The former temporarily exempted alternate of the Rogaland County, Aase Simonsen, has again taken up its seat. The called alternates, for Hordaland County, Sigurd Hille, and for Sogn and Fjordane counties, Steinar Ness, now take the seat. Three permit applications are available: from the Workers' Group on the Permit of the Representative Hege Haukeland Liadal from 19 February to 23 February to take part in UN consultations with the Interparliamentary Union in New York by the Group of the Left on sick leave for the representative of Mr Grunde Almeland from 19 February onwards and until further notice from the Workers' Group on sick leave for the representative of Ingarill Olsen from 19 February onwards and until further notice These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of Oslo, Tina Shagufta Munir Kornmo, there is an application for a waiver to meet in Stortinget under the permission of Mr Grunde Almeland for welfare reasons. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the period of leave as follows: For Finnmark County: Steinar Karlstrøm 26 February and until further notice For Oslo: Hans Kristian Voldstad 19 February and until further notice For Rogaland County: Julia Wong 19-20. February
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e151	His Kristian Voldstad and Julia Wong are present and will take their seats.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e162	The representative of Mona Fagerås will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e167	I would like to put forward, on behalf of the major representatives of Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes, Karin Andersen, Audun Lysbakken and myself, a Document8 proposal to get out of the dead end of the border.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e172	The representative, Lars Haltbrecken, will put forward two representative proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e177	I would like to make a representative proposal on behalf of the representatives of Audun Lysbakken, Kari Elisabeth Kaski, Arne Nävra, Freddy André Øvstegård, Solfrid Lerbreck, Petter Eide, Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes, Mona Fagerås, Sheida Sangtarash and myself to stop the plans for sea landfill in Repparfjord and Førdefjorden. These are almost 17 staging representatives per minute, corresponding to the number of truckloads of mine sludge to be dumped in Repparfjord. And as if that were not enough, the representative Karin Andersen also supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e182	The President reminds the representative that the proposal for a representative should not be argued when it is being promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e188	It's okay. I would also like to put forward a proposal on behalf of the depositors Karin Andersen, Arne Nävra, Audun Lysbakken, Kari Elisabeth Kaski and myself on the more effective use of electricity and support for households to implement an additional measure.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e195	The representative, Mr Henriksen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e200	On behalf of Jonas Gahr Støre, Anette Trettebergstien, Trond Giske, Elise Bjørnebeck-Waaagen, Runar Seestad and myself, I would like to make a proposal for a reform of the quality of municipal child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e205	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e212	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Ingerd Schou. – Other proposals are not available, and Mr Schou is unanimously elected as President-in-Office of the current sitting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e232	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e248	At the request of the Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated as follows: the Working Party 15 minutes, the Right 10 minutes, the Advance Party 10 minutes, the Centre 5 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, the Left 5 minutes, the Christian People's Party 5 minutes, the Green Party 5 minutes, the Green Party 5 minutes, the Red 5 minutes and the Government 10 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be up to six lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e259	I would like to thank the Committee on Cooperation in the examination of the long-term research and higher education plan. The Committee held an open hearing on the matter on 16 January 2019. The Committee notes that the sector has been satisfied with the long-term plan for research and higher education as an instrument of long-term priority and governance. The revised long-term plan continues to have a 10-year perspective, with a concreteisation of objectives and areas of action for the next four-year period. The long-term plan shall set the course for policy development and investment in research and higher education, provide predictability for the research and education environments and contribute to a better coordinated policy. Research and higher education are central to the development of a sustainable society — environmental, social, cultural, economic and political. High quality education and research is important for the proper functioning of the labour and business life and for the continued stable development of the Norwegian welfare society. Developing knowledge takes time. It is therefore important to have a long-term perspective and willingness to use the necessary resources. The Committee agrees that the objectives and long-term priorities should be essentially set out in the revised long-term plan in order to maintain predictability and notes that the three overall objectives have been pursued. These are: Strengthening competitiveness and innovation meeting major societal challenges develop professional environments of excellent quality Several of the long-term priorities are also continued: sea climate, environment and environmentally friendly energy renewal in the public sector enabling technologies; In addition, the revised long-term plan provides a new long-term priority: social security and cohesion in a globalised world. The Committee considers that there is a very important priority. In the revised long-term plan, three new escalation plans, totaling 1.5 billion, are launched. kr over 4 years. The three escalation plans are: A technology promise that embraces, among other things, enabling industrial technologies. R & D for innovation and change in business. The Committee would stress here that a clear commitment to research for innovation and conversion in business is important. Activities such as research training for industry, measures for increased commercialisation, industrial research and research-based innovation are good actions in this way. A forward-looking business can be the drivers of change that help Norwegian research and innovation succeed even better. In particular, it is important for the renewal of the public sector. Quality in higher education. The Committee welcomes the commitment to quality in higher education and stresses the importance of raising the educational perspective to the long-term level as much as the research perspective. Strong research environments are important, but the full potential of the university and higher education sectors is not exploited unless the quality of education is raised accordingly. The Norwegian economy needs to be transformed from heavy oil dependence to new industries that make us competitive. A well-developed welfare society needs to be constantly renewed, and Norwegian business needs more knowledge-based and sustainable industries. At the same time, Norway has the responsibility to help solve the world’s climate problems and to contribute to global knowledge upgrading. The long-term plan responds to several of these challenges. Finally, I would like to remind you, for the sake of order, that this is a communication covering the UH sector, the university and higher education sectors, while the vocational education sector, which does not require research-based education under the UH Act, has its own notification.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e316	In the Workers' Party, we have looked forward to the long-term plan for research and higher education for treatment. The Stoltenberg II government initiated the first long-term plan because good knowledge policy requires long-term perspectives. An ambitious and properly structured plan, followed by action and priorities, will be essential to equip Norway for the future. Norway is facing major changes. Knowledge investment is more important than in the long term. Both on the Jeløya platform and on the Granavolden platform, the right-wing government declares that research efforts and the number of study places should be increased, but in the state budget, research on the growth of the total budget is not the real growth elsewhere. R & D investment in Norway is below the OECD average and the lowest in the Nordic region. The government has barely funded new study places. Conversion and renewal require the government to follow fine formulations with strong budgetary priorities. It is not enough to describe – it has to be done. This is why the Workers' Party has made considerable efforts both for research and for more and better places of study. The first long-term plan was initiated to create predictability, transparency and the long-term nature of the knowledge investments. The plan would help to sharpen efforts where Norway has strategic advantages and meet future knowledge needs in important areas. The sector’s feedback is that the plan has worked well where it has been concrete and committed. Therefore, it is disappointing that the government's revised plan goes in the opposite direction. The long-term plan has become more general, unclear and non-obligatory. It may be convenient for the government with moderate bets, wretched goals and bag posts, but that is not the Norwegian higher education and research need. The Labour Party will have a plan that is concrete, comprehensive and binding and that provides the sector with the foreseeable framework it needs. We believe that the government is failing the most important tasks in higher education and research: more and better places of study, further development of excellent research and improving the framework conditions for researchers. Education is just as important as the research mission, but the plan lacks effective measures to improve the quality of studies, and it lacks contingency plans for colleges. A key force is needed to achieve the ambitions of the quality reform of learning outcomes and better adaptability to the labour market. We lack actions to link education and research, actions for better and more practice in the course of studies, actions to link education to the community sector, actions for more relevance and quality. We propose stepping-up plans for places of study and for new fellows. Good, well-organised and up-to-date infrastructure is a prerequisite for quality in research and education. The maintenance phase and the need for new buildings are large, but the long-term plan fails, despite the fact that the Stortinget has taken the request decision to include an investment plan and the stowage arrangements for major construction and maintenance projects. So we repeat the order that the government prepares such a binding plan. The plan does not address – as I said – the working conditions of the researchers. The research career is becoming less attractive. In order to recruit and maintain good people, it is necessary to facilitate better working conditions. In particular, the high temporary period must be reduced. This also has an equality side. So we expect the government to come up with a plan for what governments and institutions can jointly contribute to bringing down this temporaryity. The plan also has no solution to the lack of long-term and developmental possibilities in top research. We believe it is important to develop measures that protect and promote world-class scientific environments beyond today's decades of cycles. The Workers' Party prioritises efforts on students and research in front of tax cuts. That's why we can afford to do more than government. In the debate later today, we are going to include blind zones in the plan, such as competence reform and vocational schools. Other fields also fail, such as the renewal of the welfare state, the ministry's research efforts, Plan S, industry's contributions, humanities, etc. In summary, our conclusion is that the long-term plan can be a much better tool for setting ambitions and providing good governance signals for higher education and research than the plan provided by the government today. With this, I address the proposal made by the Labour Party alone in the matter, and the proposals made by the Labour Party together with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e341	The representative Nina Sandberg has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e346	In my growing up on White Island, fish farmers could sit at home in the living room and look out at their farm. It consisted of some plank pieces attached to isopor with yarn that held some thousand fish assembled within a very small area. As the fish grew and it was time for slaughter, they were able to drag the breed into a slaughterhouse in the neighbouring municipality on the Thursdays with a small snail. But times are changing: research and development in enterprises and in universities of both technology, environment and ecosystems combined with national efforts and regulations have changed the industry from being something that a man could do on the side of another job to becoming one of Norway's largest industries. While I was working on fish farming in the years before I became a staging representative, I was working on feeding fish via a boat we drove from merd to merd. The next generation of salmon to be produced from Witsøy, shall now join the rest of the country, shall be managed from the feeding fleet, where the employees can now sit with PlayStation Console and control, monitor and control in a completely different way than what I did just six years ago. Now a farming plant is typically made up of 1 million fish, many employees, boats and equipment for tens of millions of dollars, and it is constantly being researched and developed in a sector where we have world-leading professional environments that produce new equipment for new ways to drive, so that competitiveness is strengthened, sustainability is strengthened, value creation is strengthened, while reducing environmental footprints. Today, we are dealing with the long-term plan for research and education, and here we are highlighting the effort on the sea, developing world-leading professional environments and ensuring that we have a sustainable way of exploiting our resources through innovation and business development. And it's through innovation, research, business development and long-term goals that we're also going to solve tomorrow's challenges. Solving the major societal challenges is about being ahead of development. We know there's going to be an older wave. We know that we are most likely to face even greater challenges of security and preparedness in the future and migration challenges. The climate is changing, and we know that access to food and drink worldwide can be challenging. Common to these is that they can be solved, as they've also been solved before. Research and development and innovation will be crucial for managing this, together with the education system. Long-term priority initiatives provide predictability for business and research and education environments and contribute to a better coordinated policy. In the long-term plan, the government explains what it believes from a national perspective it is particularly important to give priority in the coming years. The overall objectives relate to Norwegian research and higher education as a whole, while the long-term priorities reflect areas where Norway has specific knowledge needs or competitive advantages, such as seas. These are areas of activity on which there is broad political agreement in this Chamber. The Progress Party is pleased that a broad front is being put in place to strengthen Norway’s innovative capacity and future value creation, so that we can continue to finance the welfare system. There is a holistic thinking behind the knowledge effort, with the long-term plan being an important part. Norway must have good education at all levels — from kindergarten and primary school, to vocational schools, universities and adult education. Real-skill, teacher-lift, flexible exchange schemes, better apprenticeship arrangements, practical correction – all these contribute to increasing quality in education. We get less disqualification and more qualified students who are motivated to become skilled professionals or academics or researchers. This is reflected in the government’s increased focus on research and higher education and the specific focus on innovation and industrial research. In terms of increased competitiveness and innovation, it is a well-known case that we in Norway are not going to be the cheapest, but we can be the best. Both industry and the public sector depend on it. I am pleased that a majority in the Committee emphasises that the oil and gas industries have been and are important to Norway and that we need to research how we can extract the remaining petroleum resources. But we also need to prepare for a new economic everyday life where the oil and gas sector will no longer be the definitely largest valuer, and where business will need to find new solutions to innovate products to keep jobs and strengthen value creation. Developing knowledge takes time. Therefore, we need a long-term perspective and willingness to use the resources that are needed. In line with the last three government platforms, funding for research and higher education is strengthened. In the first long-term plan, it was established that the public funding for research and development would correspond to 1 pst. of GDP by 2019. We achieved that goal already in 2016. Now we insist that the total research and development effort in Norway will be 3 pst. of GDP by 2030. Then we're dependent on the business community, and it's already being researched well in the business world. Only through the TAX FUNN scheme will we spend billions on research and development in small and medium-sized enterprises. The Government shall carry out an overall review of the instruments and mechanisms – not to weaken the offer, but to simplify and improve it. In order to achieve the 3 p.m. target, business needs to increase their investment in research and development, and one of three roadmaps related to the long-term plan has just been earmarked to contribute to this. I think most people would agree that the long-term plan is good. The consultation that the Committee had demonstrated that the feedback from the sector is largely satisfactory and shows clear commitment and predictability. However, something that was raised by several people is that there has been a high proportion of temporary staff in the academy. The Progress Party is concerned that universities and colleges should be attractive places of work that can attract and retain talent in research and education. The proportion of temporary employment in the sector is high, and I am pleased that one in the government platform has set the goal of reducing the use of temporary jobs in the public sector. I therefore take it for granted that one is given more opportunities to discuss this issue in the coming years. Finally, I want to draw up a point that I am particularly concerned with. It's about training people in line with the needs of the workplace. This is a goal for the government. This is mentioned in the long-term plan, and in the years that have gone by, we have increased the number of places of study by approx. 4 500 in health, in teacher education, real science and technology, i.e. disciplines that we know now are very much in need. The party is concerned that business and academia should be even more closely linked. I know the minister is working on a big message about cooperation between higher education and the labour market, and I really look forward to it. It is the students who are the entrepreneurs of tomorrow, who are employees and managers in the future, and they depend on what they learn in the study period being relevant when they get out of work. Personally, I hope that in the years to come, we can also discuss a change in the funding key, so that, for example, we can get work after two years as a small factor in how the places of study are financed. Today, they are mainly financed by the production of credits, while there is no incentive for where the student ends up after examination. I know that I do not yet have so many trailers in this room for these thoughts. But both Denmark and Finland have a job after studying as part of their funding keys, and I think we should gain experience from there to see if this is something we can do here at home. The latter was a small derailment of the debate on the long-term plan, but I think it is so important that it should be said now.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e388	This long-term research and higher education plan is a revision of the first long-term plan. It was known as the red-green government that in 2013 had an impact on the establishment of a national long-term research and higher education plan. The aim was to prioritise nationally important research infrastructures and to establish a long-term plan for meeting knowledge needs, i.e. a means of predictability and long-term sustainability for the university and higher education sectors. As the opinion shows, the thematic priorities of the long-term plan are widely agreed, and the rapporteur has explained this well. But that is not where the political disagreement lies either. When the central party, like the rest of the opposition, has several critical comments in the setting, it is because we believe that the government has not contributed to making the long-term plan an adequate management tool. The central party believes that the plan in several areas is too little concrete. As the Swedish Research Association has stated, the long-term plan for research and higher education has worked best where it has been the most concrete and committed. It is not so surprising that they express it, but the Central Party agrees and believes it is a weakness in the plan that it is not sufficiently concrete, obligatory, nor is it a plan that embraces the entire social mission of the institutions. Instead, the government chooses to push out many of the real priorities in time, and it does not provide the predictability that universities, colleges and research institutes need. I would like to point out in particular three weaknesses in the plan, as the Centre Party has found it necessary to comment: One is that, when dealing with the previous long-term plan, the Stortinget was very clear that at the next crossroads the government had to present a concrete priority plan and a queue for construction in the university and higher education sectors. It has not been delivered by the government, and it creates, as I said, an unforeseeable situation for the many institutions that are now waiting to realize the badly needed construction project. Instead, what the government has provided is only an overview of the overall needs for construction and maintenance in the sector. That is all right, but there is no priority in it. In this regard, I have a question for the Council of State, for many of those listed in the need list have been waiting for years. At the same time, we hear about construction plans that are not mentioned in the long-term plan at all. In connection with the construction of a new giant hospital in Oslo, a new medical faculty for the University of Oslo will be built together with the new hospital. I would like to ask the Council of State if she is familiar with this information. If she is familiar with them – why has one precisely in this area chosen to give priority, while one in all other areas is unable to give priority? And why should such a priority go ahead of construction projects and maintenance projects that have been waiting for years for government funding? The second point that the Centre Party wants to address is the question of the structural changes in the university and higher education sectors. They have been comprehensive in recent years and are almost unaffected in the notification. In the context of this Communication, it would have been natural to say something about how a person now sees the development of the new institutional landscape. Should the same kind of requirements be imposed on all institutions, small and large? Is there anything left of the college assignment? If it is – how should it be taken care of? Has there been any decentralized education, not least decentralised continuing education? This type of analysis is completely missing from the message. Instead, the majority in the committee actually resorts to an incorrect description of history: No, it was not subjects that brought these units together. Only NTNU was allowed to choose by subject. All the others had to choose by geography and merge according to where they were located in the country. However, the overall idea of how to develop the university and higher education sector based on the new structure is completely absent from this Communication. The third area I want to point out is study places and the need for study places in the future. We know that two of the areas where we will need the most labour in the future are in the teaching profession and among the nurses. There are also some of the subjects where the colleges have done an excellent job with their education. However, it is a major weakness in the plan that the need for places of study in these and other areas is not mentioned and concrete in it. It is probably a relationship that reduces the overall role of the plan as a real management tool. With that, I would like to address the suggestions that the Central Party is behind in the setting that has not already been recorded.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e411	The representative of Marit Arnstad has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e416	With Kristin Halvorsen at the head, it was the red-green government that in its time took the initiative for the first long-term research and higher education plan. It makes me proud. The aim was to create more predictability, transparency and long-termity around national knowledge investments. The long-term plan was to provide clear policy guidance for investment in knowledge buildings, research infrastructures, scholarships and study places. SV will emphasise that it appears to be a widespread assessment in the sector that the first long-term plan worked well in those areas where it was clear and concrete. It is therefore of concern when several important hearing bodies criticise this long-term plan for being too general and general. We depend on research and higher education efforts to be long-term, concrete and clearly prioritised. At the same time, the long-term plan will provide for innovative and cross-border research that can give us a new recognition in the long term. Distribution and environment are closely linked. As the differences increase, the glue in society that we need to be able to transform society quickly weakens. As poverty increases, more people will have more than enough to figure out how to get their ends to meet. That's why it's crucial that the benefits of the value creation in society benefit everyone, not just an economic elite at the top. Differences in Norway are increasing, and climate-friendly society has not come closer to this government’s policies. Society with small differences is good for everyone. We need a policy for the many – not for the few. That's why I also believe that this long-term plan should be much clearer, more concrete and not least more ambitious on behalf of universities, colleges and research on what they can do to create a society with little differences and high trust between people. For this reason, SV believes that a more clear, committed plan must also address the whole societal mission of the institutions. We need to focus on the free, independent research and priority on recruiting the people we need in research, education and innovation in the future working life. The Progress Party image in the Granavolden Declaration is clear, for now the immigration skepticism of the Progress Party has also stamped the government's policy on higher education and research. For the Council of State Nybø, there can be nothing but fluent on behalf of the Party of the Left that the differences described in the long-term plan are reduced to a question of immigration. The institutions and students need to be given a framework for achieving a high level of research and education. Good framework conditions for employees and students are important for the maintenance and further development of high-quality professional research and training institutions. There are, in particular, two areas SV want to add something to the plan. Firstly, it concerns the maintenance set-up, where the need for new buildings and upgrading in the higher education sector is high. The size decided, on a proposal from the opposition, that the government had to submit an investment plan with a stowage arrangement for major construction and maintenance projects. Now I expect this to be included as part of the revision of the long-term plan. It will contribute to more predictability of the university and higher education sectors and more transparency of policy decisions. Secondly, too little has been done to facilitate the work of researchers, especially in terms of a weak effort towards the high proportion of temporaryity in the academy. Scientists are also getting better if they get safe, predictable lives for themselves and their families. I see that my time is running out, so I will rather come back later with an article. But I'm dealing with the proposals No. 12 and 13, on behalf of SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e444	The representative of Mona Fagerås has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e449	We need knowledge to solve the climate crisis, cure disease, develop our school system and create innovation. Knowledge is the basis for democracy, value creation and well-being. In addition, knowledge is valuable to the individual. Equal opportunities for education are one of the key prerequisites for personal freedom. Knowledge is also the key to solving major societal challenges. If we are to succeed in transforming the Norwegian economy and implementing the green shift, and if Norway is to succeed in achieving its climate commitments, we must invest in knowledge. Research and higher education are central to the development of a sustainable society and to the maintenance of prosperity and well-being, the preservation of a planet in the process of being overburdened, and not least the protection of key values such as freedom and democracy. That is why the Left has had education and research as one of its main priorities as long as I can remember, and that is why I am proud that it is a research minister from the Left who has presented the long-term plan for treatment. It warms a left-heart to see that the green conversion is almost like a green thread throughout this entire long-term plan. It is clear from the fact that the UN Sustainable Development Goal is an integral part of the plan and that the green transition is a central part of several long-term priorities. Research and education are very central to meeting the environmental challenges, and we need new solutions through research-based innovation. The green shift affects all industries and sectors and is a good example of a cross-cutting theme across all traditional professional dividing lines. That's why we're dependent on a holistic and long-term commitment, as a long-term plan facilitates. It is obvious that technology development is central to both cutting emissions, taking care of nature and creating new values, among other things. in the fields of energy, transport, industry and agriculture. Norway can contribute here. Norway is among others: on the international front in the development of green shipping, and with a good interaction between industry and research and education institutions, we will be able to contribute to the development of technologies that reduce emissions, cleaner seas, and a wider market for Norwegian maritime industry – which is at the heart of the solutions. To meet the major challenges in this area, we need to understand them. Indeed, humans are responsible for emissions of climate change and environmentally harmful actions. So we need to understand why we're doing what we're doing, and what can make us act differently. We simply need to know how to make it easier for individuals, for businesses and for public enterprises to make the green choices. So we need to focus not only on technological subjects, but also on humanities and social sciences. The so-called humanities communication concluded that humanities are an under-utilised resource in the face of the major societal challenges, and that the humanistic disciplines must contribute on their own premises and are absolutely central to understanding human action, how society has become like it has become, how it evolves, and not least how technology changes our lives. I am very pleased that this basic perspective from the humanities communication is so clearly promised in this long-term plan. The government has high ambitions for the Norwegian knowledge society and is targeting research and higher education. In Norway, we have many excellent research environments. In February alone, both I and others in the Committee have visited the NTNU and the University of Oslo, and we have been impressed by the work they do, in terms of both educational quality, cooperation with business and social life, and not least excellent research. But we have the potential to get even better. Therefore, the efforts of both government, knowledge institutions, industry and other actors must continue with undiminished strength. The long-term plan shall provide the research and training environments with long-term and predictability, and numerically fixed escalation plans are therefore an important part of this long-term plan. I want to highlight the commitment to quality in higher education as an important initiative for the Left. There were a lot of people who wanted in the last long-term plan. Education and research are equal tasks for universities and colleges, but over a long period of time, the development of good teaching quality has been a low priority, with some honourable exceptions. It has simply not been profitable to bet on this compared to research. But fortunately, this is about to turn around, and this escalation plan provides the basis for new initiatives that will benefit students. I am a little incomprehensible that the opposition criticises that this area is not present in the long-term plan, when it has got its own escalating plan. In addition to the long-term priorities that have already been set there, a new area has now emerged — social security and cohesion in a globalised world. I notice that the representative of the SV supports the fact that a party like the Left is presenting a long-term plan in which we are problem-solving challenges that migration poses, but I believe that parties that are fundamental positive to immigration must also be able to recognise the challenges it is facing us as a society. We can't just pretend that problems we don't like don't exist. It is therefore particularly important that they are raised in this long-term plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e473	The long-term plan for research and higher education shows in a good way the expectations we as a society have for growth, innovation and development. High-quality education and research are crucial to our well-functioning working and business life and to maintain a stable development of the Norwegian welfare community. But perhaps most important of all: knowledge, research and insight have a basic self-esteem in themselves. Developing knowledge and deeper insight takes time. That is why we must have a long-term perspective. We have to be willing to use the resources that are needed. Therefore, it is important that the long-term plan is just a long-term one. It must provide predictability, while showing its way into a new era. Of course, the Christian People's Party shares the government's ambition that Norway should be one of the most innovative countries in Europe. Education, research and innovation, and their interaction, are crucial to success. In this context, increased research and development needs to be stimulated, both in industry and in the public sector. It provides a basis for increased competitiveness and innovation. Then, of course, it is an expectation from the authorities that universities, colleges, health companies and research institutes receiving state basic or basic appropriations will base the long-term plan on their strategic priorities. The same applies to the Norwegian Research Council and other parts of the instrument. The revised long-term plan contains a new, long-term priority, namely social security and cohesion in a globalised world. This is an important topic to raise. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we are also particularly concerned with having good arrangements that stimulate international student mobility. Foreign students in short or longer periods of study in Norway represent a major resource for the place of study and students. It is of great value to the countries to which foreign students return. In particular, arrangements include students from the global south and from poor countries. Here, too, research cooperation between Norway and the global south is an important area of activity. Enhanced cooperation based on reciprocity will, in addition to providing important knowledge, contribute to strengthening student mobility both ways. That is why I am pleased that the majority of the committee is now so clear and based on this perspective, and I am sure that the government will follow this up in a good way. The councils have also previously shown that she shares the Christian People's Party's commitment to this. It is important to facilitate the building of skills in the home countries of students, including: through research cooperation with developing countries and the global south. Building and good infrastructure is important in order to have growth and a good framework for development in the sector. Good working conditions and access to proper and appropriate facilities are central. We must ensure that the infrastructure is adapted to new needs. This has also been evident in the past. That is why I am pleased that the plan provides a good overview of construction projects at different stages, the expectations of the government for the institutions, and what emphasis should be placed on in the development of campus and on investment in UH buildings in the coming years. In addition, the notification raises the institutions’ own ability to take the necessary action. So we know that not all needs can be met by the conversion and adaptation of existing building stock. We also need new barley. This indicates the long-term objective and direction in the long term. Of course, start-up appropriations for specific construction projects must be assessed in the ordinary budgetary procedures. Then I would like to close this article by thanking the rapporteur and the Committee for a good cooperation on this matter. I feel essentially that there's a great deal of agreement about the long lines here, and that's good. Predictability combined with offensive government policies is a strength for further growth and development in this sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e498	The government presented the revised long-term plan for research and higher education on 8 October last year, together with our proposal for the 2019 government budget. I want to start by saying that this is the first big message from a Left Council of States since 2005, and I think it was very good that there was a message about just research and education policy and what we as a society need more knowledge about the next few years: to strengthen the competences of society, to solve the climate challenges, to create the new business and to secure the welfare society in the future. The long-term plan looks ahead for ten years, but is revised every four years. The plan shall provide predictability, and therefore is also well established from the first version. But we also make some adjustments, simply because the world has changed since 2014. For example, we have joined the Paris Agreement and the UN Agenda 2030, and it also affects research and higher education policy. Another example is the increasing digitisation and rapid technological change that characterises all parts of society and that is now clearer in the long-term plan. The objectives of the long-term plan are: strengthening Norway’s competitiveness and innovation capacity meeting major societal challenges developing professional environments of excellent quality We have made some changes to the structure to give the overall objectives a clearer place and to clarify what are general objectives, and what are thematic areas of particular strategic importance for Norway. The overall objectives concern Norwegian research and higher education as a whole. Then there are five long-term priorities in the plan: sea climate, environment and environmentally friendly energy innovation in the public sector and better public services enabling and industrial technologies; social security and cohesion in a globalised world These priorities reflect areas where Norway has specific knowledge needs or competitive advantage. The last priority – social security and cohesion in a globalised world – is new. Many actors have identified the need for a new long-term priority and it covers many areas that this government has given high priority to. The government has the ambition to create a safe Norway where everyone is included. To succeed, we need knowledge of what creates safe and functioning societies. There are also three horizontal perspectives that permeate the entire long-term plan. The first is the green shift. If the world fails to cut greenhouse gas emissions in the next few years, there is a very high risk that climate change will have serious consequences. At the same time, it opens up a large market for technologies that can help reduce emissions, including emissions. in the fields of energy, transport, industry and agriculture. Norway can contribute here. The green shift is also reflected in the fact that the sustainability targets adopted by the UN Member States in 2015 are an integral part of the plan. We regard the sustainability objectives as central to meeting the major challenges of our time and will play an active role in the follow-up to the objectives, internationally and in Norway. The second perspective, digitisation, multi-society areas, and the development of green technology play an important role. Norwegian farms are, for example, international in the development of self-driving ships and the automation of maritime operations. The third perspective is humanities. Humanities are key contributors to all the objectives and priorities of the long-term plan. There are subjects that can give us knowledge that will help us understand the changes in society, cultural uncertainty and how trust and legitimacy are created and maintained. The new priority strengthens the humanities perspective of the plan, but humanities are not only relevant to the last priority, they will contribute in all thematic areas. In the revised long-term plan for research and higher education, we present for the first time a comprehensive policy for the development, management and prioritisation of university and higher education buildings. The plan gives direction to campus development at our universities and colleges. Construction is an instrument, and the government expects universities and colleges to draw up good plans for their building mass, in order to promote high-quality education and research. We also expect them to contribute to the green shift by implementing sustainable climate and environmental solutions. Universities must also give priority to ensuring and maintaining their cultural historical collections. Not all needs can be met through the conversion and adaptation of the existing one. We also need new barley. This is why this government is ever implementing some of the largest construction projects in the sector, for example. Campus Ås and Life Sciences at the University of Oslo. In the long-term plan, we present an overview of large construction projects at different stages of planning. It provides government and growth a good starting point for the prioritisation of university and higher education buildings in future state budgets. The government's project is to facilitate increased value creation and new jobs, convert the Norwegian economy and implement the green shift. Without world-class research and higher education, we can't make that transition. That is why the long-term plan is a very central document in the government's further work. In the revised long-term plan, we see the entire government's research effort as a whole. It contains extensive efforts in many different fields and sectors. It is a long-term plan that makes even greater use of research and development to meet the societal challenges we face. All government councils are responsible for overseeing the knowledge needs of their sector and contributing to research and development of competences within their areas of responsibility. The action plans in the first long-term plan – in research infrastructure, recruitment positions and instruments for increased participation in the EU Framework Programme for Research and Innovation, Horizon 2020 – were completed in 2018. The revised version has three new escalation plans that we're going to spend 1.5 billion. kr for the next four years. We want to increase the appropriations by 800 million. kr to a technology lift. We're going to spend 450 million. SEK for schemes that contribute to R & D for business conversion and innovation, and we will spend 250 million. on quality in higher education. We're going to keep track of these escalation plans for a total of 476 million. kr in 2019. A long-term plan for research and higher education is not a long-term plan for completed projects to be financed. Nor is there a detailed plan for all government or educational and research institutions to do in the next few years. The long-term plan contains some ambitions and points out a direction we want to go in. The follow-up to the plan is already underway, and the work is taking place in close cooperation and dialogue with those who will provide the education and carry out the research – our universities and colleges, our health businesses, the institutes and businesses. This is not a plan to include all challenges in the sector. There has been a point for us that this plan should first of all show a direction. It's going to point out some targets. It will point out our major challenges and where we have some competitive advantage, so that we can concentrate our efforts towards it over the next ten years. But it is clear that there are also areas in the university and higher education sectors that are challenging, that we have to work with, but that have not been included in this plan. I guess we'll come back to that in the debate. I have also registered that I have received some questions from various representatives so far. I expect that there will be even more, so I'm going to draw up a new article later in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e573	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e578	This is about excellent research environments. The OECD has highlighted the need for Norway to do more to develop excellent research environments. What will the Council of State do when the funding of centres of excellence expires after ten years? The government has opened up the possibility of extending the funding of some of them, but has not yet launched any lasting solutions to this challenge, nor in the long-term plan, where excellent research is no longer even a thematic effort. The Labour Party has proposals in its strategy, and we have had an interpellation to get ahead on this issue, but the government has not proposed any new instruments that give the very best researchers good enough opportunity to create new knowledge. So what will the Council of State answer to Edvard Moser and others who are calling for action on top quality?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e587	Excellent research was important in the first long-term plan, and this is important in the revised long-term plan. Without excellent research, we are unable to solve the major challenges facing the world. Norway can contribute its small share, and we need to work with other and international researchers to create the good international environments. We have more good environments today. We want them to be even better, and we want to get more of those environments. Now it is the case that the Research Council has an evaluation of this so-called SFF scheme, so we will come back to that when they have completed that evaluation. In addition, there is no longer a limit on the number of times you can apply for that type of funding; it will be able to apply again when it expires. In 2019, the government strengthened world-leading trade unions by 40 million. kr, and I will finally mention that the Moser environment is also part of the state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e594	Study places are among the main inputs of the higher education research system, and the OECD has brought forward two typical features for countries with well-developed research and innovation systems. The first is that long-term investment is made in the knowledge base, i.e. through investment in human resources: education, recruitment, capacity building and equipment. The second is that countries strengthen competitiveness through priority efforts to meet major societal challenges. The government’s draft long-term plan describes the societal challenges in a good way, but it fails in terms of priorities and escalation plans, in particular as regards the knowledge base made up of study places and recruitment positions. Why does the Council of State choose to make knowledge investments short-term and fragmented in the annual budgetary negotiations, rather than long-term and comprehensive and open in the long-term plan of escalation?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e601	We have chosen to present a long-term plan with three plans for escalation of a total of 1.5 billion. kr over the next four years. There is a formidable commitment to research and higher education. That's 800 million. kr to a technology lift. This technology promise will not be a promise to be made only in the field of the Ministry of Knowledge; it will be a technology promise that will be relevant to many disciplines, to many departments. Study places can be part of it. So it's like we've been putting a lot of money into places of study in the last few years. It has increased by 4,545 places from 2014 to 2019 in annual admissions. Fortunately, higher education is available to the majority of the population in Norway. Those who want higher education, those who have the skills to enter higher education, have the opportunity to do so. We see that more people want it. I think that's good. This is something we need to assess in the future state budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e608	Good infrastructure and organised construction are key conditions for quality in research and education, yes, we can say as strongly as the government itself in the introduction to the long-term plan: «Building, equipment and other infrastructure are fundamental inputs to achieving overall objectives of research and education policy.» The need for new buildings, maintenance and upgrades at universities and higher education institutions is great. The government's proposal for a long-term plan only serves a list of construction projects already in progress, despite the fact that the Stortinget has taken a decision on a request for the plan to have an investment plan and a stowage scheme for major construction and maintenance projects. Why has the government not delivered what the Stortinget has asked for? And does not the government believe that a long-term framework for basic inputs is needed?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e618	I believe the government will deliver when it comes to construction. Firstly, we are now building the Life Science Building, as well as one of the buildings mentioned in the previous long-term plan. The Ocean Space Centre has been lifted into the Granavolden platform. We have arranged for an upgrade scheme of 161 million. kr, enabling universities to apply for funds which they can use to create new areas, more up-to-date, more modern areas, for new forms of education. This is an important part of the quality of education that they are able to provide. I believe that through the long-term plan for research and higher education, we are doing well to ensure that government and enlargement can make priorities for concrete building projects in the individual state budgets that come. And that's how sometimes some needs have to go ahead. For example, the Archaeological Museum has been lying for a long time, but we see that there is a need to speed up the Viking Age Museum.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e623	I'm going to go a little further on it, because what the Stortinget asked for was a queue and a priority. The department has supplied is not, and the Ministry writes in the footnote on page 86: ‘The Ministry has not assessed the content, the need or the priority between the construction projects.’ It is only a list of different construction needs that have been notified from the sector. There is no stipulation at all, nor is there any prioritisation. So the government didn't deliver on what the Stortinget asked for. In addition, there is now a signal that UiO can get a new medical faculty for a couple of hundred million kroner in connection with the construction of a gigantic new hospital in Oslo. Is the Council of State aware of those plans, and how will they merge into these non-priority projects?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e630	There's two pretty big questions in one question. I'll try, and start with the OUS: Building a new hospital will be at the Ministry of Health and Welfare. In that case, it is those who want to plan to build a new hospital. In the construction of new hospitals, we also include areas for teaching, among other things. medical students. I have been informed that new areas in a project that the OUS will be able to trigger a rental cost for the University of Oslo, which this is about, up to 200 million. kr. Then we have a code that says the university can get rent compensation for up to 75 pst. of the costs. It will mean for the University of Oslo that they will still have a significant increase in expenditure due to the construction of a new hospital in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e636	There was interesting information, and it is also stated in the table here: ‘The table does not include university areas in new hospital buildings’. But when you've been in government, you know that everything has to be paid for, everything has to be argued against the Ministry of Finance, and increased costs related to renting the land are also payable for. This means that if UiO gets significantly increased costs because of this, it will also be a cost item for the country. Then my question is, what is the priority in relation to the list of buildings that have been waiting for years here, and which are not prioritised by the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e641	In the long-term plan for research and higher education, we list the projects in the UH sector. This means, as the representative Arnstad also says, that e.g. Hospital construction is not part of that listing, because we're just taking what's in our sector. At this point, there are three projects that are ready to build. It's the Archaeological Museum in Stavanger, which has waited a long time, it's the Elgeseter Gate on NTNU, which the representative knows very well, and then it's the Viking Museum at UiO, which has a strong need, which has brought it up in the Granavolden Declaration, precisely because things happen to our Viking ships that make it come in front of the queue, in front of the other projects – as a result of what happens to the objects and Viking ships themselves. But this is related, and the cost increase UiO will have to bring a new hospital in Oslo, which will also have to be assessed in the future state budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e648	Today, we have put forward a loose proposal asking the government to reduce the proportion of temporary jobs among scientific staff to the level of the labour force, and to draw up, in cooperation with the sector, a binding plan on how to achieve this objective. Will the Minister be able to support such a proposal, or does the Minister still think what she said at the hearing conference earlier this winter, that this is a responsibility of the institutions themselves?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e653	I believe this is a responsibility to be taken by the institutions. It is a responsibility that the institutions have not taken. There is a large room for our universities and colleges that they do not use to hire people in permanent jobs rather than in temporary jobs. I believe the temporary nature of this sector is going down. That's why I called the principals of the universities that have the highest proportion of temporary staff to a meeting in March to just discuss this. But it's those who sit and do the jobs, it's those who have to take responsibility for bringing down the temporaryity of the sector. I don't think there's any good reason why they're not going to be able to get that number further down. It's gone down a little bit in the last few years, but it's pretty close enough. So this I'm going to follow closely, and I'm going to follow it up, because that number has to go down. Universities and higher education institutions are themselves concerned with their own autonomy and autonomy. Then they must show that they also take responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e658	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e663	In the working life of the future, digitisation, robotization and automation will change more and more jobs at a faster pace. New industries are coming, other industries are going to disappear or fundamentally change. It makes greater demands for us to be able to give everyone new skills. Higher education obviously has a crucial role to play in providing continuing education and training to the extent and with the quality required. At a time when Norway is facing major changes, all sectors that are to be part of the skills reform must be drawn with an early and high level of ambition. Surprisingly, this long-term plan for higher education and research does not contain a spectre of what must be a central job for higher education and research in the years to come, namely competence reform. The fact that competence reform is not anchored in the long-term plan is a major flaw. I'll almost call it a lack of service by the government. It is still a mystery why the reform of competences has not been found worthy of a place in this long-term plan. Lifelong learning will require universities and colleges to have a completely different role in the further education of the growing population. For this reason, we propose that the right-wing government in its work on a reform of labour competences reinforce that reform of competence in the priority of the long-term research and higher education plan in order to ensure the whole and coherence of education and competence policy. Several have mentioned that where the previous long-term plan was successful, it was particularly concrete and had concrete follow-up plans. Several have mentioned the challenge that the long-term plan is not sufficiently concrete in several areas. A challenge the Labour Party will bring forward is that it is too weak on quality in higher education and completely unobligatory on study places. Strengthening the quality of studies and achieving the ambitions of the quality reform of increasing learning outcomes and better adaptation to the labour market are required. The fact that students receive research-based education is one of the most important things to ensure that they take knowledge to society and business. Therefore, close links between research and higher education are needed at all levels. The long-term plan should have been concrete on how to further develop high-quality research-based education, and that is something the Workers' Party lacks. When real priorities are shifted to annual budgets, follow-up becomes less committed. The working party fears that the downgrading of study places will continue. It is precisely this which is the rest of this government: the lack of study places. We already see in health that we lack a lot of educated people. Already 5,900 nurses are missing. At the same time, there are queues outside our higher education institutions, universities and colleges of people who want to apply for health care. There were 50,000 applicants for 10,000 seats last year. So four out of five applicants in these courses got no. Not all of these are going to go into health education, but we see a very obvious need for a more offensive initiative. In other sectors, too, there are shortages and greater needs than the government has provided, for example. in the field of ICT. I hear that both the representative Steffensen of the Progress Party and the Council of State are drawing up that this government has set up 4,500 study places. A reservation is that it is subject to the full escalation of these places of study. It is also the case that most of the study places have come together with the government, and it is strange that the Progress Party boasts of it. The ability to prioritize places of study seems to disappear as the parties step into the government offices. To compare with the red-green government: over eight red-green years, 23 000 study places were established. This government does not meet the need for more places of study and has reduced the level of increase in places of study considerably and dramatically. This is why we have a proposal that the long-term plan should have plans to step up the need for new places of study and new scholarships in order to gain important professionals in the welfare country and to ensure important skills for business.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e685	The contributions of vocational schools are invisible in this long-term plan. The vocational schools are not mentioned in the long-term plan at all, even though they have received higher vocational education status, and the vocational schools play an important and necessary role in a reform of skills in which people are to learn throughout their lives. This right-hand administration should make itself visible and make use of the competence and training of specialised schools. It was the Workers' Party, SV and the Central Party's concern when we dealt with the vocational school law. This is why we suggest that the right-wing government should come back with a stepping-up plan for the number of colleges that take into account the growing needs of skilled workers in industry. Of course, it was voted down by these parties. The survey has decided that vocational education is at a level of secondary education and that it should be referred to as «higher vocational education». Int. 289 L for 2017-2018, the Committee underlines: ‘Teaching schools must both make themselves visible and be made visible, as a well integrated part of an integrated education system and as a fully-fledged and equivalent alternative to university and higher education.’ Well, as the Council of State says, they have to take responsibility for this. No, that's why we're making a long-term plan, and that's why we have these proposals – in order for the vocational schools to play an important role according to the needs of business across the country. The working party is therefore very surprised that the vocational schools are not mentioned in the proposal for a revised long-term plan nor are they mentioned as part of the instrument to reach the priority areas. The Labour Party will further show that the government will develop a reform of competence, learn throughout its life. Therefore, it is unfortunate that vocational schools are not mentioned as a central player in government reference in the long-term plan, and one also assumes that the government in the further work both makes itself visible and makes use of the competence of vocational schools and the provision of education. In the past, the Committee has stressed that vocational schools play an important role in providing society with short and vocational education and training, which is a good contribution to people's lifelong learning. Right, Progress Party, Left and Christian People's Party writes that the long-term plan for research and higher education does not include the subject-school sector, as the vocational schools are not subject to the law of universities and colleges. It is also written that the subject school notification and the revision of the Fachschulegesetz were aimed at achieving a high-quality lift in the vocational schools and in the same way as other students. The long-term communication would expect the Council of State and the Government to raise this area to the level stated by both the Committee and the Stortinge, and not least what the entire industry is asking for. That's why it's completely incomprehensible to us that the colleges are out of place from the good company in the long-term plan for the next ten years – the next ten years. It says something about the plan of ambition, about the ambition of the Council of State and the ambition of these parties for the importance of vocational schools in society in the years to come. In conclusion, the Committee was on a visit to Trøndelag for a short time. We visited, for example: NTNU, Kavlisenteret – Edvard and May-Britt Moser. There was a call for clear signals on how these research institutes would be financed in the future. I will then refer to a committee comment, which is written by, among other things. Carl I. Hagen: ‘These members believe that research policy should take even further into account than has been done in the past. There are many skilled researchers in Norway, some of whom are world leaders.’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e707	But at least this long-term communication does not respond to that comitology. Nor does it respond to how we are to take care of all the skilled researchers, the skilled research communities, and how we will be world leaders in these areas in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e710	The long-term plan contains a new long-term priority. This concerns social security and cohesion in a globalised world. This is a complex topic. Social security involves many disciplines that need to be seen in the context. Cross-disciplinaryness in both research and education is necessary. The world is changing constantly. Trust is challenged both within and between communities and cultures. Contrasts are polarized. Migration characterises social development and contributes to increasing inequalities due to demanding integration. Political and religious extremism challenges society in new ways. Knowledge that opens up our understanding of deep societal change, cultural uncertainty and how trust and legitimacy are created and maintained must also be given priority in research. There is a need for knowledge of how institutions that keep modern society together address these challenges and the institutional arrangements that enable us to live with increasing cultural differences and conflicts of interest. At the same time, social security is challenged by serious natural events, global health threats, failure to supply energy and food or intended acts such as terrorism, sabotage and crime. All these challenges need to be met with knowledge. The 2019 state budget follows the new priorities on social security and cohesion in a global world of 47 million. kr. The aim is to set up a lighthouse project in Norway, the Norwegian Research Council, in the field of ICT security to ensure national specialist competence, the SAMRISK programme in the Research Council to further develop research on social security in general and ICT security research in particular, as well as on ICT security and cryptology research. This is neither moderate bet nor wretched goals, as the representative Sandberg of the Workers' Party said from the pulpit earlier today. The Government will ensure a good and up-to-date knowledge base on issues of importance for social cohesion and stability and a secure and secure society. Research efforts will be reinforced in relevant education on the potential negative effects and vulnerability of the use of technology and digitalisation, and priority will be given to research on how to secure ourselves against our man-made and non-human threats. With these new areas of activity in the long-term plan, the government shows that we are taking our demanding social development seriously and implementing research and development measures to meet the new challenges we are facing now and for future developments.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e723	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e728	Long-term sustainability of governance signals and investments is needed to build the environments, infrastructure and frameworks around the people responsible for education and the competences that take Norway further. Higher education is not only theoretical knowledge but also advanced skills and practically oriented competences. The Centre believes that the whole of the knowledge policy and better cooperation between the Departments of Research, Development and Innovation must be ensured in order to ensure that all departments have sufficient coordination across departments. It must be culture for that. Furthermore, in the Single European Act, greater cooperation with the labour market and a strengthening of the relevance of working life in education and research are highlighted. This is important. Enhancing competitiveness and innovation must include the whole of business as a support for employment and development. Travel is an example of a great industry where research efforts do not keep pace with value creation. To increase the share of business in research up to 2 pst. of GDP by 2030, we need to strengthen tools that trigger research in and for business. Then we have to think a little bit about the unique hoard of business and work that operates in society. Last year, we were finally given vocational schools for higher vocational education, which the Centre Party had asked for for a longer time, without seeing any trace of it in the long term plan. The business community asks for more places of study and more activity at the colleges, but does not get it. The government must recognise that the vocational schools play a key role, and that their competences must be used to achieve the objectives of the long-term plan, including the conversion and renewal of the private and public sectors, increased cooperation between the public sector, industry and educational institutions and increased relevance to education and research. Practices, projects, foundations and internationalisation linked to clusters should have specialised schools as catalysts. In the forthcoming reform of competence for the wider view and mobilisation of skills and lifelong learning in Norway, the vocational schools must be included, including in the long-term plan. But the Council of State responsible for the reform of competences and the vocational schools is not even present here now. The Vocational Training Council is in dialogue with the European Centre for the Development of Vocational Training, where questions of direction for higher vocational education, cooperation with industry, the design of learning models, practices and employment orientation are relevant. This is where the state councils have to go. The OECD concludes that today’s research policy does not equip us well enough to cope with the transition Norway needs to undergo. The bet has to be, the colleges have to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e747	To achieve climate objectives and avoid the most serious consequences of climate change, we need to ensure that the large amount of money goes to research and education in sectors where we cut emissions and create new jobs. The long-term plan for research and higher education is far too small to take account of Norway’s enormous transformation, when we know that the revenues from the petroleum sector will fall dramatically, and that the world needs to shift its energy consumption from fossil to renewable energy. If we do not change our oil and gas policies, it will be serious for both current and future generations when climate change is already under way and sets ever-increasing traces around us in everyday life. The government's plan to find more oil and gas resources is therefore deeply irresponsible. We've already found more oil and gas than we can get rid of if we're going to be able to have a viable climate. That's why new research projects need to be about what we need more, not what we need less of. This means that it is high time to shift the research resources from petroleum to other industries, including to develop new jobs and avoid high unemployment when this transition comes. The petroleum industry has a high level of competence, a competence that can contribute to the development of business in several sectors — a more environmentally friendly maritime sector, competence in the health sector and also in other areas. Therefore, far more resources should be allocated to measures that can contribute to the transfer of competences from the oil sector to other sectors and build on experience from projects such as Pumps & Pipes, where we receive technology transfer from the oil industry to the health sector. If the big money continues to go to a heavily state-subsidized petroleum research, it is worrying, and it does not contribute to the transformation we all know that we are going through in the coming years. It is not only worrying about the environmental situation, but also about our ability to create the jobs and meet the transformation we know we need.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e765	Long-term and adequate funding is essential for research and higher education to make a difference in meeting and addressing future societal challenges. In the first long-term plan, it was decided that the public R & D appropriations should correspond to 1 pst. of GDP by 2019-2020. This objective, shared with the EU and several former Norwegian governments, was first achieved in the 2016 State budget. R & D expenditure on the State budget is thus high in Norway compared to other countries. The indicator report presented in November 2018 shows that the total cost of research in Norway has never been higher. In 2017, the total R & D expenditure is estimated to be close to 70 billion. kr. It's equal to 2.11 pst. of GDP and gives a total real growth of 8,5 pst. since 2016. Over time, the government will increase public R & D efforts beyond 1 pst. of GDP in a conversion phase and, in particular, of the priority of enabling technologies and research contributing to increased value creation. The objective of a total R & D effort in Norway to be 3 pst. by 2030, gross domestic product is maintained. To achieve the 3 % target, Norway needs to increase its R & D effort significantly compared to the current level. It requires a more research-based business and better interaction between academia, business and the public sector. But there has been a strong R & D growth in industry, and R & D in industry now accounts for around 1 pst. GDP. I would therefore like to stress the importance of the government continuing to invest in instruments that trigger industry's own research efforts, such as the SkattenFUNN and the User-led Innovation Arena. Figures from the SSB show that SMEs in particular have experienced significant growth in research efforts. The Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV enter open doors with their proposal to include small and medium-sized enterprises in the priorities of research, especially since we know that 95 pst. of all enterprises in Norway have fewer than 20 employees and are called small and medium-sized enterprises. Despite these investments, the opposition complains of a weak commitment to research, and we recall once again that political memory is short. Prior to leaving government offices in 2005, an ambitious research report was presented with an equally ambitious research escalation plan. The first thing the red-green government did when they took over was to cut the planned increase in the Research Fund by 25 billion. kr. Since then, they have brought down the entire Research Fund, a fund which in a predictable way secured research funding years in the future. As a researcher, I remember Djupedal's rest cutting in the 2007 research appropriations, or as the academics wrote in 2013: ‘The red-green government has had a very low focus on higher education and research.’ Then it must be painful to see that so much is being invested in research and higher education now.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e783	For us working on health policy, this long-term plan is an important tool. It will ensure that Norway and our common healthcare are equipped for the future. The latest this morning we heard about a breakthrough in the research on antibiotics. That's great. I want to use my speaking time in two fields where the government should have a significantly more offensive attitude. The first is the research on female health. The other thing I want to spend my time talking about is that we have to have enough hands in the health professions. It's a subprioritized field when it comes to female health. The report ‘What do we know about women’s health?’ from the Source of gender research showed that women’s diseases are being less researched, and that men are being studied the most, although diseases may give different outcomes and, in some cases, require different treatment in women and men. Of course, it's an equality problem, but it's also a socio-economic problem. The unpriority female diseases, such as migraines and muscle diseases, cost society enormous sums. It is also among the main causes of sick leave and disability. In Norway, most of us could expect to live longer than our parents and grandparents. It's amazing. But since old age makes it easier to get sick, it can mean that more people have to live with different diseases. Technology will probably make life easier for old and sick, but there is no doubt a need for more health professionals in the years to come. We need more hands that can take care of us. By 2040 there may be a need for twice as many health workers as today. Already today, Norway lacks 5,900 nurses. At the same time, there is a long line of motivated and qualified applicants outside colleges and universities. They do not study health because there are not enough places. There were 50,000 qualified applicants for health education last year — up to a little over 10,000 places of study. So four out of five didn't fit. There is a need for a significant increase in educational capacity, with several places of study, recruitment positions and opportunities for skills enhancement and further training. It is absolutely necessary to meet the needs of healthcare in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e798	There is a cross-political agreement – and the Stortinget has adopted – that vocational education should be at the level of secondary education and that the term should be «higher vocational education». The Committee's opinion is as follows: ‘Teaching schools must both make themselves visible and be made visible, as a well integrated part of an integrated education system and as a fully-fledged and equivalent alternative to university and higher education.’ It goes on to say ‘that high-quality vocational education is absolutely central to ensuring the labour force we need to cope with the transition in which the Norwegian economy and working life stand’. For this not only to be empty talk, SV had expected the State Council for Higher Education and Research to take this signal from Stortinget seriously. Unfortunately, it doesn't look like she does. Vocational schools are not mentioned in the long-term plan for higher education and research, which is now to be adopted. I am very surprised at this and believe it is a never so small scandal that we have a minister of higher education that does not four the role of vocational schools one second in the long-term plan for higher education and research. Professional schools are also not mentioned as part of the instrument for achieving the priority objectives. The vocational schools offer higher vocational education and offer short vocational education in close cooperation with the labour market. The role of vocational schools must be made visible and their competence must be used to achieve the objectives of the long-term plan. Their contributions are very relevant, including: in order to increase research and development on change and innovation in the business and public sector, to stimulate increased cooperation between the public sector, industry and research institutes and to facilitate higher relevance in education and research – three key objectives of the government’s proposal for a revised long-term plan. Vocational schools can offer tailor-made continuing training services to professionals who need it. SV will maintain that, in addition to universities and colleges, vocational schools should also be mentioned, and have a key role – a key role, President – to equip workers for a continuous transition working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e812	This country is facing a great transformation. It is absolutely necessary that we succeed in the green shift if we are not to see serious consequences in the future. We have to create new jobs in a new business if we're to have something to live on in the future. We must ensure that we have a sustainable welfare society if we are to continue to have the services we have today. I strongly and sincerely believe that without the universities and colleges, without our research environments, we will not succeed in the formidable task we are facing. That is what the long-term plan should be and show the way for. I note that the opposition criticises the plan that it does not contain all sorts of challenges and problems that are in the university, higher education and vocational education sector right now. The vocational schools are mentioned – they should be part of this plan, it is said. I disagree. I honor the colleges, I think the colleges are very important as vocational education, and they contribute a lot to society, but that's not what this plan is about. Medium-termity is a major challenge for our sector, and we deal with it differently than through this plan. Competence reform is very important to our society in the future, but we are working on that in our own big message. When we presented this plan, I feared that it would be exactly what the opposition wanted it to be, a plan for all good purposes, a plan for all challenges. It has not been my intention, it has not been the intention of the government. We have wanted and we have delivered a long-term plan that has been eaten and long-term, and the sector has been satisfied with the plan that has been presented. I also record that the opposition has very few concrete suggestions in its contributions on how to solve the major challenges facing us as a nation. The previous long-term plan had three escalating plans. It was research infrastructure, it was stimulating increased participation in the EU Framework Programme, and it was the number of scholarship holders to raise. We used the last long-term plan to equip the UH sector. This long-term plan has another moustache, it's about spreading out. If we're to succeed in the major challenges we're facing, it's not that it's just the Ministry of Knowledge that can run research, it's not just the Ministry of Knowledge that has to solve the challenges we're facing. We depend on bringing all the departments, all the state councils, all the sectors to succeed in that. That's why we've set up these three escalation plans, which are wider than the previous ones, but it's about adding more to the important task facing research and higher education.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e826	This plan is strangely little centered around those who are going to do the job, i.e. researchers and students. When the proportion of temporary employment is twice as high in academia as in the rest of the world of work, there is something we in the Workers' Party cannot look at and accept. Safe jobs are important for individuals and for the quality of Norwegian research and higher education. High temporaryity makes it difficult to recruit, maintain and develop skilled researchers and trainers. We know that especially younger researchers are losing faith in research as a future career path, and that temporaryity affects women more often than men. Temporary jobs create an uncertainty that makes women more likely to opt out of an academic career. That means that equality is weakening. In the Workers' Party, we become alarmed by these trends. We believe that the working conditions of the researchers should have been lifted into the long-term plan, but the Council of State has stated clearly and clearly that the right-wing government should not follow up on this. At the contact conference to KD in January she announced that there would be no new state initiatives or measures to reduce the temporaryity. Against this background, it may not be surprising that the long-term plan of the right-wing government to those degrees ignores the perhaps most important prerequisite for good higher education and research, namely the people who do the job in daily life. There is no solution to a real problem to do as the government parties do in their position, i.e. refer to temporaryity in round layers and then read the entire responsibility to the sector itself. A responsible government should put on the table proposals for what authorities and institutions can do together to reduce the temporaryity to an acceptable level.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e836	So a final point about the second group is neglecting this plan, the students. Year after year, the study barometer shows that study quality has been neglected. Something has pointed out that the 250 million. kr with which the government is so satisfied, and which they set off, has mainly been used up in the first year, so that the escalation does not occur. The level of ambition of the government is too low and represents a weak commitment to quality in higher education. This is not just the Workers' Party that believes, but this means the Director of NOKUT.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e839	To the state council's flaming posts: it's just to conclude that we're completely disagreeable. The opposition's proposals are concrete and binding, and that is precisely what today's plan is missing. Time after time, reference is made to the State budget; that is where the priorities and the big fights are to be clarified. Otherwise, I would like to comment that it is gratifying that there are representatives from several committees who are taking part in the debate and just point out the need for coordination across disciplines, departments and committees. The representative of Synnes from the Right may not have followed closely during the hearing held by the Committee when the criticism of the lack of certainty of R & D funds for small and medium-sized enterprises came. High quality education and research is important for a well-functioning working and business life and for the development of our well-being. When social security and cohesion in a globalised world come to the long-term priorities, we have a good starting point for building up research as a skyscraper in our metropolis or a mountain peak in our outland. This needs to be done to get the interdisciplinary we sorely need when, among other things. ICT makes its contribution to well-being, and when enabling technologies increase the pace of our development. There is reason to ask questions about how departments and society can otherwise connect different subjects. Needs in the labour and social sectors put a strain on the health sector and often depend on allocations and efforts in knowledge and development to meet their challenges. A concrete example is the chiropractor training that has been initiated at the University of Bergen because backaches keep people out of work — with reduced quality of life — and sequestrate large resources in health services and in the social budget. Another example is ICT security, where we need to invest more in the long term. Here I would like to point out that legal, humane and societal issues, together with technological perspectives, must be involved in defining the challenges and finding the right solutions. Otherwise, climate, environment and energy are also important themes for the future. The sea and the forest, including Foods of Norway, helps us gain new knowledge that equips us to better use the resources we have around us, with a smaller footprint. The follow-up to the UN Sustainable Development Goals was requested during the Committee's consultation and provides the basis for innovation and vital research for the future I hope we can follow up. The OECD has called for better coordination of research policies to enable Norway to meet the major societal challenges. Better coordination in and across different disciplines must be on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e856	The members of the Committee from the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party consider it important to prioritise research and higher education that renews, improves and streamlines the public sector and that can contribute to better and more efficient services and actions for the population. Among these, it is central to facilitating more research-driven and needs-driven public sector innovation. The government will step up the appropriations for research and higher education developing the public sector. In the period 2015-2018, this priority was followed up by 213 million. in increased appropriations, by research and increased allocations to places of study relevant to the priority. The State budget for 2019 has adopted a number of initiatives with relevance for public sector renewal and better public services. In total, this is followed up by approximately 120 million. kr in 2019. The Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV are today promoting the following proposals: «The government is asking the government to set up its own research programme for innovation and transformation in the public sector [[...]] In this respect, I would like to point out that the Research Council has developed a public sector innovation strategy for the period 2018-2023, which will identify challenges and opportunities and be used as a basis for non-performing instruments. Funds for innovation projects are already being released under several of the Research Council's programmes, and there are many good results to be found. The Research Council has a comprehensive responsibility for developing the research and innovation system so that research communities can play a greater role in developing a more knowledge-based and innovative public sector. I believe that the Research Council is best suited to developing non-performing research instruments and therefore does not understand why the Stortinget should initiate the creation of research programmes, which have been proposed by the members of the Committee from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV. It's probably tempting to control detail from Stortinget all the way down at the research programme level, but that doesn't mean it's a good idea.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e872	I think it must be good for both the case rapporteur, the Council of State and the government that we are basically so united, and that there is such a broad consensus on the thematic issues, that we agree on sea, energy, digitalisation and social security and preparedness. It has to be a strength to take with it the further work of all parties. But I also have to say that the Council of State is difficult to give the opposition the responsibility to follow up what the government does not choose to follow up. The centre party has criticized mainly three things here today. One is that a non-priority in terms of construction and maintenance, as Stortinget said one should do. The second is that one does not have a review of the need for longer-term study places. The third is that one does not have an overall review of what this sector should be like following the structural reform that one has undergone. These are discussions we're not done with, and they're going to go on in the years to come. I also took the floor to say something about excellent research, because what the representative Nina Sandberg was about in that context is quite important. It took Norway 20 years to produce the Moser environment in Trondheim. It was a long and difficult road. Now there's one of the world's leading environments within what they're doing, and they've got a Nobel Prize. But they within a research programme that lasts until 2023, and they do not take a position in 2023 until they remain in Norway and Trondheim. That environment already offers from all over the world. It may be from the United States, the United Kingdom, Australia – you name it! – and they will decide whether to continue in Norway long before 2023. This means that even the government and Norwegian authorities, if we want to have the excellent research environment in Norway, have to decide on their position and their public funding opportunities long before 2023. If we don't risk the environment missing for us. It could end up in Berkeley, Cambridge or anywhere. They have not lacked opportunities and offers, but they have remained in Norway because they want to have a connection with Norway and because the Norwegian authorities have managed to provide them with sufficient funding. But that is the moment of uncertainty: does it continue to finance beyond the four-year period in which they are now involved, in terms of their SFF? It's a problem that the government – I'll say almost any color – has to take on the greatest seriousness. That environment is so valuable to Norway as a nation and to our goals of excellent research that we can't afford to lose it abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e883	There is a lot of positive in the long-term plan for research and higher education. There is also a great deal of agreement on the thematic areas of activity. I understand that it can be frustrating to be a minister of research and higher education or a representative of the government parties and a meeting in Stortinget and to experience criticism from the opposition. I just want to remind you that it's not very unnatural. We point out shortcomings in the long-term plan that we believe should have been corrected. When the Minister of Research and Higher Education says that the opposition calls for all possible issues that could have been mentioned in a long-term plan, this is not the case. There are not any areas of interest we want. The fact that the reform of competence, which will apply to the transition of the entire working life, or vocational schools, which raises to higher vocational education, is not mentioned in one word, we believe that there is a shortcoming in the long-term plan. Now we criticize the Minister of Research and Higher Education, but the representative Knutsdatter Strand asked a timely question earlier in the debate: Where is Minister of Knowledge Sanner, who is responsible in the government for competence reform and vocational schools? I am almost tempted to ask who is responsible for the fact that competence reform and vocational schools are not mentioned in the long-term plan. Anyway, it's unfortunate. This is something you should look at in the context of other bets and raise it to the level that they deserve. The question could be asked whether it is the minister of research and higher education that should be held responsible or whether it is Minister of Knowledge Sanner who needs a push in this case. But for Storting, it doesn't matter. The truth is that the long-term plan is less ambitious than it could have been in these areas. The fact that competence reform and vocational schools are not mentioned in one word is the responsibility of the entire government. For Storting, it's the same way the responsibility is distributed as long as it's actually mentioned, that it's actually doing something. Competence reform is not any area, not any field of activity. It shall apply, in the opinion of the Workers' Party at least, throughout the working life. This applies to the provision of skills for all workers, to the ability to learn throughout your life, not to go out of date, to be filled with skills. Who is going to do the job in a skills reform? Our higher education institutions have a key role, perhaps the most important role, in developing study provision, in cooperating with different industries. It's going to affect the way higher education institutions work, and it should have been clearly seen in the context of what's written in the long-term plan. There will be a message about the competence reform, but I expect both the government and the government to be competent enough to be able to write the same thing in a long-term plan and in a big message, and not give different priorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e898	The Committee agrees that education and dissemination are key elements of the societal mission of the institutions together with research and innovation. There must be a close link between research and higher education, and education should be linked to research at all levels. The members of the Committee from the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party indicate that quality in education now has a separate escalation plan in its long-term plan. We therefore do not understand the criticism of the members of the Committee from the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left when they lack training measures in the long-term plan. The representative Martin Henriksen is calling for a research-based education. Then I have to ask the representative to consider what the various instruments actually cover. I want to show you in particular how to strengthen Diku's quality programmes. One of the most important measures in the Quality Communication was the creation of Diku’s quality programmes, bringing together different quality instruments, including the ‘SFU’ system. In the 2019 budget, the SFU scheme is strengthened by 25 million. kr. The SFU scheme involves concentrated, focused and long-term efforts to stimulate the development of higher education teaching and learning modes at the bachelor and master levels. An important objective of the SFU scheme is precisely to stimulate excellent R & D-based education. Therefore, claiming that there is no focus on education and research-based education in the long-term plan does not lead to correctness.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e912	The representative Nina Sandberg has spoken twice earlier and gets the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e917	It is a little absurd to be accused of having to control a sector in detail – we hear that from the government parties now – in the light of the fact that we are dealing with a plan that researchers at NIFU have described as a plan for everything and nothing, precisely because it fails as a priority tool. Today, we are simply pointing to some concrete, but significant points where the long-term plan is too poor or is not a plan. We in the Labour Party have taken the OECD recommendations seriously. We want Norway to rig research and higher education to give us the ability to adapt. We will make Norway competitive and innovative in meeting the major challenges that society has to face in the future. All in all, we are pleased that the right-wing government has followed up with long-term plans. It wasn't given. But we'd rather have seen that the results were better. The right-wing government wants a constructive opposition. All our proposals today are being flatly voted down. It is not very constructive or offensive. It's just conservative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e924	The representative of Mona Fagerås has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e929	Unfortunately, after today's debate, I have not been reassured by the fact that universities and colleges will become a more attractive career path with an active gender equality policy and reduce the use of temporary employment. I am therefore very critical that the government does not take greater responsibility for reducing the use of temporary positions in the academy, and lacks offensive action in this area. The Institutes and National Education Authorities share a common responsibility for solving the temporaryity problem. Now I expect the government to come up with a concrete plan for what both parties can do, and not lean back and point to what the sector itself can do.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e936	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e952	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, a reply be given to the comments of members of the Government and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e962	Let me first thank the Cooperation Committee and thank the Council of State and the Ministry for good dialogue along the way in the Committee's work on a subject which is partly difficult to reach. The bill deals with new law on securities centres and securities settlements, also known as the Central Securities Act. I would like to refer to the main content of the proposal and comment on some of the comments and proposals that the Committee and the majority are behind. So I'm assuming that the minority itself presents its own. The content of the proposition is two-fold. The EU Central Securities Regulation (CSDR) is incorporated, i.e. be introduced in Norwegian law as it is, without being rewritten. Furthermore, this Regulation is now incorporated into the EEA Agreement subject to the approval of the EEA Joint Undertaking. Furthermore, the proposal contains provisions supplementing the rules laid down in the EU Regulation. Many of them involve the continuation of provisions of the applicable Securities Register Act. While central securities centres have previously been very different from those regulated in Europe, CSDR has provided the first general common regulation of central securities centres and settlement in the EU. The introduction of similar rules in Norway is important both for the functioning and for the confidence in the Norwegian securities market. Among the objectives of the EU Regulation and thus the new legislation are to promote a safe, efficient and well-functioning securities settlement, to simplify and ensure an open market for central securities services, to increase the security and soundness of the securities settlement system and to reduce the risks and costs of cross-border securities settlement. There is also a desire to promote competition between CSDs and to provide customers with more choice and less reliance on one enterprise. In this respect, I recall that the Swedish Securities Agency’s monopoly in Norway was lifted as early as 2002. It is worth noting that Norwegian authorities are themselves able to regulate securities registration and securities settlement issues that are not directly regulated by the CSDR. The majority assume that the national action space should be used as far as possible, where appropriate. The provisions of the applicable Securities Register Act which are passed on in the new law relate to matters and rules which are not covered by the EU Regulation, such as: the registration of rights in securities accounts, legal effects and legal protection of registration, the liability of central securities depositories, the obligation of professional secrecy of employees in such central banks and not least the right of access to information from central securities depositories. New rules on winding-up and crisis management are proposed and national rules on supervision and penalties are laid down for the financial supervision, which may impose an infringement fee for infringements of the law. The system we have had in Norway to use account holders is being continued. This means that banks, investment firms or management companies may continue to have contact with the CSD on behalf of the individual investor and issuer. Customers shall continue to be able to choose between individual customer accounts or aggregate accounts. With regard to the contractual obligation and the right of investors to account, the Committee considers that good reasons should be required for rejecting a client. At the same time, the majority of the Committee is committed to avoiding a broader contractual obligation for CSDs and account holders in Norway than in other countries. A customer must also be able to be rejected if there is a factual reason, e.g. whether there are conditions under the Raising Act that give rise to a refusal of a customer relationship. The majority also argues that the legal effect of the registration of an AIFM account in a CSD and the approval of the rules to that effect by the Financial Supervisory Authority shall be limited to Norwegian administrators and administrators through non-resident entities with a branch in Norway. In the case of CSDs and account holders’ liability for objective errors, the Committee considers that making control responsibilities unlimited would pose a significantly greater risk and could compromise insurance coverage. The Committee therefore considers that the current limit of liability of 500 million. kr per error shall be continued in a new law and shall propose it. Moreover, I refer to the position and proposals that the Committee and the majority are behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e992	I would like to thank the case rapporteur and the rest of the Committee for their good cooperation in the matter. During the examination in the committee, it has been possible to find solutions that have given us an even better piece of legislation, and that is good. The CSD implements, as discussed by the rapporteur, the first common regulation on securities trading in the EU, Centralised Securities Depositories Regulations, CSDR. The status of a CSD is important to our only Norwegian CSD. They are now given a stamp of approval which makes it easier to invest in companies registered here and for companies to choose to register here. Failure to implement this Regulation in the EEA Agreement would result in Norwegian and foreign companies being able to opt out of using our Norwegian VPS. Our central bank has been very clear that it is important for them to get CSDR approval. It is not unproblematic to establish a uniform regulatory framework for countries that already have different legislation and practices in securities trading. Some of the challenges are that in Norway we require limited liability companies and public limited liability companies to register securities in their own name, while in many European countries the tradition is to go through an administrator. Our only Norwegian VPS is not the only one to deal with the rules we are adopting today. It must also be made up of payment intermediaries, who are initially small and large banks all over the country. At one point, the Workers' Party had wished that the government had made better use of the space of action that we believe the CSDR provides. That is why we have today made a proposal asking the government to consider continuing today's ownership restrictions for VPS ASA. Last June we lifted the stock exchange law here in Stortinget and adopted a new regulation on securities trading. Then we maintained the ownership restriction rules for Oslo Stock Exchange. These rules were introduced when the stock exchange was privatised in 2001, in order to ensure diversified ownership of the stock exchange. The rules governing ownership require the Ministry to approve an owner who wishes to increase his ownership interest to more than 10 pst. Today, our security center is owned by Oslo Stock Exchange. In today's situation, therefore, ownership restriction rules in the Securities Trading Act and for the stock exchange in practice mean that we have a ownership restriction for the VPS ASA. But it doesn't have to be that way for the future. VPS ASA must not be owned by the stock exchange. The Workers' Party believes that we should seek to use the Action Room to have the same ownership restrictions for our Central Securities Act as for Oslo Børs. The CSDR Regulation provides in Article 27 that transfers of holdings are to be notified to the competent authority that approves them. The Ministry has concluded in the proposal that there is no possibility to establish national rules on ownership restrictions, which we currently have in the Securities Register Act §5-2. It contradicts the fact that Denmark has chosen to continue the ownership limitation rules for its central securities centre. They have introduced the CSDR and have continued a requirement for prior approval when some directly or indirectly own at least 10 pst. by the shares or votes of a central securities depository. They have not considered that the CSDR prevents them from continuing such national rules. The Workers' Party believes that the different solutions in the Nordic region show that there should be a reassessment of the possibility to continue the same ownership restrictions for our VPS that we continued for Oslo Børs in June 2018. Why? Yes, because it will ensure that Norwegian interests are assessed and taken care of when large shares in key infrastructure are to be transferred as VPS. We therefore propose the following proposals: ‘The government is asked to assess the continuation of current rules on control by acquisitions of significant holdings in the VPS, as set out in. Section 5-2 of the Securities Register Act.’ We are also concerned with transparency of financial interests, and are committed to proposals for transparency about whom AIFMs act on behalf of, and to set a limit on how many AIFMs should be registered. With that, I take up the suggestions that the Workers' Party is behind, alone or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e1016	The representative then addressed the proposals she referred to, and the ones she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e1021	Let me also thank the Committee for a good cooperation in the matter. A more equal regulation with countries around us of settlement with securities is positive. The central securities regulation adopted in the EU in 2014 has as its objective the promotion of a safe, efficient and orderly settlement of securities, which is important for the confidence and functioning of the Norwegian securities market. The regulation allows for the maintenance of the system of accountants, an option proposed by the Ministry to use. The main features of the bill are well summarised both in the case and in the submission of the case rapporteur, but I would nevertheless stress the importance of the most open markets that make it as easy as possible to invest in financial instruments, regardless of which country you are resident in. Reducing the risk and economic cost of securities settlement and promoting cross-border competition are positive. The recommendation is promoted by an almost collective committee. Only the Red Party and the Center Party stand outside. The centre party proposes to send the entire bill back to the government. Much of the argumentation is based on fear of foreign actors and the security of the nation. Of course, all parties are free to consider both what they are for and what they are against, and they must of course be allowed to put their words as they please, but I hope the Center Party has not intended to use all possible suggestions and arenas to develop non-real narratives. It is quite fine to be opposed to Norwegian membership of the EU, but we must remember that, despite the fact that there is a lot of disagreement with the EU, large parts of Norwegian business are totally dependent on having access to markets outside Norway, and we actually have laws and regulations that we have harmonised with rules that apply in other European countries. It is precisely this that enables us to have many and good jobs in Norway as well. Norwegian jobs depend on more than Norway, and in view of the central party's argument in the case, I may feel that the centre party is more concerned with building a history based on its resistance to the EU and the EEA, including arguments about the nation's security, which is strictly stronger than necessary. Both investments in Norway by foreign investors and investments made in other countries by Norwegian investors are a good thing. A common and overall rule also on whether securities are positive and implemented in Norway mainly because in Norway it is good for Norway, because it is good for Norwegian business and good for Norwegian jobs. And Norwegian jobs I hope the Centre party is also busy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e1028	After both reading the proposition and hearing the first speakers from the majority, I have to say that I'm a little bit wondering about the argument being used, and what are the real reasons why a person chooses to go in for the bill that's here. One says one will have a secure, efficient and well-functioning securities settlement. Of course, we agree with that. But what will be the question then is whether the proposal on the table here today will contribute to a safer, more efficient and more efficient securities settlement in Norway. And if one reads the counter-representations that also come from the department itself, and from the hearing bodies that have expressed themselves in the matter, one sees on a number of points that it will not be safer, that it will not be more effective, and will not be more effective. Today we have a securities centre in Norway, the only one that has a licence as a securities register under the law. It is a well-functioning securities centre, which has high confidence, which is recognised and is also internationally recognised. One's talking about foreign investment. At Oslo Stock Exchange today is 40 pst. by the investments made by non-residents. So one is familiar with using the tools that are in Norway today, with the Norwegian Securities Center. What one has to ask is what one achieves by transparency of European competition for CSDs, rather than using the central bank that one has in Norway today. The CSD is a social-critical infrastructure, and the question that one should rather ask is how to strengthen the ownership structure and control that one has over the Central Securities Bank in Norway, rather than putting up with European competition. The CSD that one has in Norway today just ensures that one has a common overview of Norwegian securities, whether shares, bonds, equity certificates or other, and who has rights attached to them. It works as a base book, as it also says in the proposition. If one weakens this, the Bank of Norway has also said that, in the ultimate sense, it can also weaken financial stability. And when it comes to using action spaces, which one has under the law: here I hear representatives from the majority say that one should use it. Well, Norway’s Bank and the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority have wanted one to use an action room that they believe is within the framework of the legislation that one intends to implement, to maintain the requirement that at least unlisted shares remain registered in the Norwegian Securities Centre, and the majority nevertheless disagree. How does it relate to the argument about using national action spaces? Today, the Financial Supervisory Authority approves the AIFMs to be used. That requirement will be removed in the new legislation to be accepted by one here. No good arguments have been given as to why it makes sense to remove the current requirement, except that there is a need to do so in order to facilitate the free flow for which you are going in. It is also the case that, with what you put on the table here, it will be more difficult to have an overview of the real owners, at least if it is the ambition as one submits, namely that there will be greater competition between CSDs in Europe, that Norwegian actors can use foreign CSDs to a greater extent. Then it becomes more difficult to keep track of real owners. Today, Oslo Børs and the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority have the opportunity to apply directly for the VPS register in Norway. A person will not be given a similar opportunity to apply in foreign registers. There are also issues related to taxation and its effectiveness. There are good reasons why there will be more resource-intensive and more red tape, as the government itself puts it directly into the proposition, that there can be increased use of resources for both the Financial Supervisory Authority, the Tax Statute and, for that matter, the Central Statistical Agency. It is important to take care of the Security Centre. It has served Norwegian business well, and it is therefore unwise to do what is put on the table here today. I would like to present the proposal No. 3-5.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e1047	The representative, Sigbjørn Gülsvik, then addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e1052	This is the second option in two weeks that Stortinget has had to ensure more transparency about who owns Norwegian companies. Transparency prevents money laundering, corruption and tax evasion and ensures a free and secure financial market and a living democracy. But unfortunately, it is also the second time in two weeks that the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party, chooses to break their own promises and ambitions that Norway should be in front of openness. They even vote against when it comes only to assessing measures. The Aktionarregister provides the public with access to information on all Norwegian shareholders. Foreign shareholders, or Nordics investing abroad, are, however, listed as ‘unknown’. Today, therefore, the opposition stands united behind two proposals designed to prevent billions of dollars from being concealed. The first proposal concerns more transparency about which natural persons are behind administrator accounts investing in Norwegian companies. Although the Financial Supervisory Authority has formal transparency today, control will be strengthened by increasing transparency for the public and journalists. We therefore propose that the government make ‘proposals for a change to the Central Securities Act to extend the disclosure obligation on real owners, which AIFMs currently have to tax authorities and financial supervision, so that AIFMs also have an obligation to disclose information to the shareholder register’. Often, not only is one used, but long chains are often used by administrators. Therefore, the AIFM registered in the Security Centre is authorised by the Financial Supervisory Authority and does not ensure that all stages in the back of the chain are subject to sufficient control. The second opposition proposal therefore seeks to ask the government to ‘restrict the number of administrators to be allowed to use and to ensure that all AIFMs in the chain are authorised by the Financial Supervisory Authority’. Norwegians buying Norwegian securities must register in the VPS. Foreign shareholders, on the other hand, must own shares through so-called management accounts, i.e. a bank or a brokerage house – typically in Switzerland. This also allows Norwegian shareholders to hide behind corporate structures abroad and thus act anonymously at Oslo Børs. Let me give you an example: the case against the investor Einar Chr. Nagell-Erichsen is one of the major insiders of Oslo Stock Exchange in recent times. In 1999, Nagell-Erichsen made millions by buying shares in the Finanzbank with inside information just before Storbrand bought up the bank. He hid his identity through an administrator account in Switzerland. Ecocrim took the case all the way to the Swiss Supreme Court and won the case, after a long trial of three years. The judgment has made it easier to get access to the Norwegian authorities in Switzerland, and that is good. However, the information is hidden from the public, the company's board of directors and other shareholders, and the Financial Supervisory Authority has limited resources. The purpose of the shareholder register was that owner information should be easily available at a single location. If the information on the underlying holders of the management accounts may be provided in the annual reports of the companies, it may also be collected in the shareholder register. In practice, the information should then be shared between the Tax Agency, the Financial Supervisory Authority and the Brønnøysund Registry, so that AIFMs do not have to report the same information anywhere else. In 2015, a unanimous Finance Committee asked for more transparency about companies. ‘The transparency and transparency of administrator accounts should be as close as possible to the one currently established for Norwegian shareholders in the new registry’, said a total accumulation. I can't understand why the government parties once again refuse more transparency. There are no factual reasons. A legal and free financial market has everything to gain on transparency. It prevents persons from building up large shares in companies through shell companies, subsidiaries and managers of domestic and foreign countries without the knowledge of other investors or shareholders. So every time we hesitate to ensure as much openness as possible, it's those who have something to hide, who win on it – not the financial market, not the public, not democracy and not our welfare state.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e1086	In the proposal, the government proposes a new central securities law that will replace the current Securities Register Act. The legislative proposal implements the EU Central Securities Regulation in Norwegian law in the event of so-called incorporation. That is to say, the Regulation shall apply directly as Norwegian law. In addition, the legislative proposal contains a number of provisions supplementing the rules of the Regulation. Many of the provisions continue parts of the applicable Securities Register Act. The Securities Central Regulation constitutes the first general common regulation of central securities and securities settlements in the EU/EEA. It was adopted in 2014 and has entered into force in the EU. That Regulation was incorporated into the EEA Agreement by decision of the EEA Joint Committee on 8 February 2019. Norway took part in the decision of the EEA Committee subject to the consent of the Storting. The government will shortly return to Stortinget and ask for consent for inclusion under the second paragraph of Section 26 of the Constitution. The individual proposals contained in the proposal are well summarised by the rapporteur. Let me therefore concentrate on the points in the proposition that the Committee has been particularly concerned about. I am pleased that the majority of the Committee subscribes to the proposal for a new central securities law implementing the central securities regulation in Norwegian law. I am committed to facilitating a secure, efficient and well-functioning securities settlement. I have noticed that a minority refer to requirements for more transparency in the management system and propose that the information obligations of AIFMs on beneficial owners be extended, so that AIFMs also have an obligation to disclose information to the shareholder register. It is important that we distinguish between transparency in the tax register of shareholders, future transparency in a register of beneficial owners and increased transparency in administrator accounts. The shareholder register of the tax administration is based on extracts from the tax administration systems, which in turn are based on reporting by companies. It is not a shareholder register in such a way that it is kept up to date and kept up to date. It is therefore not possible for AIFMs to be required to disclose information to the shareholder register as such. I would like to make it clear that for those companies that are subject to the rules of the recently adopted Law on Registers of Real Rights holders, the register will need to have information about all real rightholders, even if there are intermediate administrators. I have also noticed suggestions from a minority to ask the government to set down a sample to assess the ownership of the Swedish Securities Agency and avoid major changes in ownership of the Oslo Stock Exchange VPS Holding ASA until the Swedish Government has assessed the follow-up of this sample. I have also taken note of the proposal to come back with a proposal for a new central securities law that takes into account national security and Norwegian interests and ensures that Norwegian securities are attractive to foreign capital. I would like to stress that this law does not affect how the department will assess the offers for the purchase of the shares in the Oslo Børs VPS. The law does not weaken the consideration of national security, and in my view it strengthens the Norwegian securities market and the interests of Norwegian issuers. The new Central Securities Act provides us with an up-to-date regulatory framework that can contribute to a more integrated market for central securities services in the EEA. The regulation has entered into force in the EU, and it is important, in the interests of trust and the functioning of the Norwegian securities market, that we have similar rules in place in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e1107	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e1113	After hearing the Council of State now, it is still unclear to me why she believes it should be the basis for not trusting the Norwegian securities market in the future and the Norwegian Securities Centre if an existing national law continues. The Norwegian Securities Centre has served the market well, and there is also a significant element of foreign investment in Norway. 40 pst. by the investors at Oslo Exchange are foreign actors. What one clearly describes in the proposition is that the new system being established will lead to increased red tape for the SSB, increased resource use for the Financial Supervision and increased resource use also for the tax base, if one succeeds in the goal of increasing the use of foreign CSDs. Why is it important for the government to constantly submit to new EU rules that contribute to increased bureaucracy?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e1120	This is not about subjecting to EU legislation. This is about ensuring that we have a level playing field for operators operating in the Norwegian market and entering the European market. It has served us well for many years, and that has been one of the reasons why we have set the pace of implementing very many legal acts in the financial market area, precisely because it contributes to equal rules, more transparency, more predictability for all the actors involved. I believe the Center Party is completely wrong in its assumptions about this, and I record that there is a broad majority in the Stortinget that joins the government's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e1125	We are subject to EU rules. The majority propose to approve a regulation that determines what kind of rules Norway can introduce, both what kind of rules we can introduce today, and how these developments will be in the future. We have a story behind us with a national security centre that has served the Norwegian market well, which has high trust, high recognition. Thus, it will replace a system in which one might have a number of foreign securities centres to which the tax authorities in Norway are to deal, as the Financial Supervisory Authority is to deal, with which the public is to deal. How should it contribute to a better securities market in Norway and not more bureaucracy and less transparency?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e1130	But this shows that this legislation ensures that we have national control. We have to supervise. We will have control of this type of activity, even though we are part of the EEA territory, and ensure that we have as much access as possible to the market and as much regulation as possible across borders. There is also some of the strength of the whole EEA Agreement. I believe again that the representative is wrong when he chooses to use the term ‘to submit’. I remember the debate we had in the Chamber when we discussed the matter about the financial supervisory agencies. The Central Party then presented it as if the entire Financial Supervisory Authority would be moved up with its roots and almost moved from Oslo down to Brussels. Now the representative is standing here worrying that the same supervision that he previously thought would be transferred is now going to use more resources to run control and supervision in Norway. It just shows that having a good code, common legislation, is good, but that we also exercise supervision by Norwegian bodies.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e1135	In order to ensure confidence in the EEA, it is important to exploit the space for action contained in the legislation that we introduce as a member of the EEA. As I was in my post, Denmark is continuing ownership restrictions for CSDs – rules that we have in Norway today, which have been considered important for ownership of key infrastructure such as the VPS. There is no long discussion of the action space and the possibility of continuing today's rules in Prop. 7 L, which we have to treat. What are the assessments made by the Council of State that Norden has solved the question of continuing to restrict the ownership of CSDs differently?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e1140	According to my information today, it does not seem that Denmark has actually decided to continue the rules to which the Workers' Party refers. It's our opinion that there's no way to have any strange rules next to the CSDR. It is the assessment that the Ministry of Finance has made, but it is clear that I note the proposal that the Workers' Party is promoting here, and will, of course, make an additional assessment of the issues raised by the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e1145	It is stated in the proposition that Denmark has done so, so in that case there is new information. But the important thing is that it's being evaluated.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e1150	As I heard from the Council of State, the government assesses it so that since a new law has now been introduced on the register of real rights holders, there is no need to have transparency about the real persons who are behind the administrators of the shareholder register. It would have been nice to find out if I have understood correctly. I also wonder about something in connection with the debate we had two weeks ago, and which is now nice that we can see in context. It was the debate we had just about thresholds in the register for real rightholders. For example, as far as the threshold for listed companies for shareholders is concerned, the only thing that is clear is that one owns at least 25 pst. by the company. This means that the shareholder register today has much more information about the shareholders, about Norwegian shareholders, than about foreign shareholders or Norwegian shareholders investing through foreign managers or companies. The question is: how to obtain transparency about them if the threshold in the Register of Real Rights holders is to be 25 pst. ?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e1155	I think there is a broad consensus that we should facilitate transparency as much as possible in Norwegian society. That's what we deserve. That's why we regulate a lot of these relationships. As the representative refers to, it is not very long since the Storting processed the register of real rightholders. It is true that we had a discussion there, at least from the opposition side, related to threshold values and 25 pst., as I said when we dealt with the matter. But then it is true that once we have just taken a decision to implement this, we must first gain experience with the legislation we now have in place in Norway, while it is natural to gain experience from other countries. Then we get back to it when we have the experience to base ourselves on.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e1160	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e1178	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, a reply be given to the comments of members of the Government and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e1187	Consent to the inclusion of the crisis management directive in the EEA Agreement is the completion of a one-year process. In February 2018 the EEA Committee decided to incorporate this Directive into the EEA Agreement. The size followed this up in March 2018 by adopting the necessary legislative changes. These amendments entered into force on 1 January of this year, and with the decision that Stortinget will take today, this inclusion is implemented and supplemented by regulatory rules. As indicated in the cancellation, both the Senterpartiet and Red refer to their comments when the case was dealt with, and Red goes against today's position on the basis of these as well. The remaining batches stand behind, as this is a natural follow-up to previous decisions taken in the Stortinget. Financial markets are global, and Norwegian financial corporations finance themselves to a large extent in international markets. The crisis management directive harmonises the rules across the EEA – how to deal with the different contracts of financial undertakings in a crisis. We learned a part of the banking crisis in the 1990s, where it turned out to be difficult to manage a bank according to national rules when many of the contracts are subject to the law of other countries. The majority of the Committee also considers that this is an important measure for the Norwegian financial industry because Norwegian banks could be considered as third-country banks in the EU prior to the inclusion in the EEA Agreement and could therefore have implications for banks’ contribution obligations to other countries’ crisis funds. This is an inclusion that ensures predictability, transparency and stability of the financial industry and is therefore endorsed by a broad majority of the financial committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e1200	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e1216	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, a reply be given to the comments of members of the Government and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e1225	This case may appear to be very technical, but it is also very important, not least politically. It gives us an instrument that can counteract the development we've seen and worn for a long time, that the corporate tax base has been under pressure and partially weathered. It has been high on the agenda of international organisations such as the EU, the G20 and the OECD in recent years. In 2015, the OECD and the G20 presented fifteen reports on measures to counteract the erosion of the corporate tax base by profit-moving, the so-called BEPS recommendations. Here in Stortinget, we have been impatient to implement the BEPS recommendations in Norway. These included: theme of the 2016 tax settlement. Today we're here, and that's good. Several of the BEPS recommendations require renegotiation of tax agreements, which is a time-consuming exercise that often involves long bilateral processes. By following the traditional way of amending tax agreements, it will take years to implement the recommendations. That is why the multilateral agreement we are now agreeing to implement is important. It will simplify the process of implementing the necessary changes in tax arrangements. Norway has more than 90 tax agreements with other countries. 28 of these have been proposed under the multilateral agreement. Furthermore, it is proposed that where we already have ongoing general renegotiations of the tax agreement, the BEPS measures should be included in this process. The Committee considers this to be appropriate, but would stress the importance of prioritising BEPS measures from the Norwegian side during these renegotiations. Tax agreements have been designed to avoid double taxation. This Treaty extends the objective of avoiding double non-taxation, which the Committee considers to be an important clarification. This is a stand-alone treaty to operate alongside and in addition to the tax agreements to which it applies. It provides an opportunity to amend tax agreements concluded in different areas, including: by introducing different minimum standards in addition to a number of provisions which countries are free to choose. Let me mention one example of the committee's comments. Norway reserves the right not to make use of Article 9 on the taxation of gains on the sale of shares or other interests in units where the underlying values originate from real estate. The reason is that we do not have the right to tax non-tax residents in Norway under national law. The Committee agrees that on this basis we take reservations, but we state that it does not deter us from the possibility of adopting such national law at a later stage if the Storting wishes. It is a unanimous committee recommending the conclusion of the agreement and the choices and reservations made. However, I would like to stress that this Treaty does not mean that there is still no need for stronger efforts in the fight against tax adjustment, profit movements and the eroding of the tax base. It is a pity that the government parties could not be associated with the opposition in this point in the setting. I hope the Minister of Finance agrees with that need. With this I recommend setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e1246	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e1262	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, a reply be given to the comments of members of the Government and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e1271	A common denominator among most of the countries we know today as successful democracies is that they have a well-functioning and, at least, partly independent central bank. Julie Brodtkorb, the head of the Norwegian Bank's representation, said last week, during the governor's annual report, that when nations are built, they are built up by and including institutions such as the Bank of Norway. When the government, through the communication we are now discussing, invites the Stortinge to participate in the design and planning of a new central bank law, it is because the central bank activity has changed significantly in recent years. The current central bank law was passed in 1985 and replaced the former law of 1892. In matters and laws relating to institutions as important as the Bank of Norway, an aggregate increase is of the opinion that it makes sense for the government to take an additional round within this house, so as to achieve the broadest possible agreement to the changes proposed. And there's very broad excitement about the main discussions in the Communication. The background is, as I said, changes in the tasks of the central bank. Therefore, a selection was appointed in 2015 to develop a NOU on new central bank law, the organisation of the Bank of Norway and not least the management of the State pension fund abroad, SPU. The last is some of the things that have come to fruition since 1985, which take more and more space. Today, more people are working on SPU management than they are working on the more common central bank tasks. Few had imagined that the fund would get the size and value it has today. The Gedrem selection submitted its configuration in 2017. The various models were proposed for managing the central bank and how the SPU should be managed. The committee recommends a model where SPU is distinguished from the Bank of Norway and a special law company is set up under the Ministry of Finance to run the administration. They also recommend the establishment of a Trade Union Committee on Monetary Policy and Financial Stability with both internal and external members. They also recommend that the representation be suspended on the grounds that, with their model, there will only be external members of the Governing Council and that the Ministry of Finance, when choosing this model, will be responsible for appointing the external auditor and approving the accounts of the Bank of Norway and the separated management company. The Committee agrees with the government's assessment that the management of the SPU should remain at the Bank of Norway. This contributes to stability, to experience with it is good, and to fear some significant costs of a change. In addition, the Committee notes that many point to the risk that an administrator outside the Bank of Norway could be more likely to have its own priorities which would not necessarily be consistent with the priorities of the owner. We also believe, as the government does, that representation is very important for democratic control of the Bank of Norway. The appointment of 15 members by the Stortinge to the European Parliament contributes to an important link between the elected representatives of the people and one of the most important institutions in our country. In addition, it is an independent point that the Riksrevision must have built up both competence and staff if not the representation did these tasks. A majority of the members of the Committee, including the members of the Workers' Party, believe that all significant decisions on the level of risk to be taken in the management of our common savings money in the SPU should continue to be anchored in the Storting and that the choice of the fund's share is such a significant decision. The majority believe that a weakening of this principle could lead to a less robust and long-term management of the Fund and a weaker democratic anchoring. At the same time, the Workers' Party, together with the SV, considers that the Board of Directors must have the necessary powers to reduce the risk in the Fund when specific conditions in the risk profile of the financial markets and the international economy so warrant. This is riding two horses at a time. On the one hand, the choice of share capital is a significant decision that the Storting should take for reasons of robustness, democratic anchoring and long-term management. On the other hand, the Workers' Party believes that the Board must be able to do so without having been to the Stortinget, whether the Board sees ‘specificities’ in the market. What are actually ‘specific conditions’ in the market? That the big stock exchanges in the world fall quickly? In the past, the fund has used this to buy more shares, not less – a strategy that has given very good returns. Is it this Workers' Party that wants to come to life? Or they think that SPU's regime is the only one in the world that can predict 100 pst stock exchange falls. security? I'm assuming they're spending some time teaching people in their article on this. However, the Committee agrees with the main options set out in this Communication. It's both important and good, and we're looking forward to the billing proposal coming to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e1294	There is broad support for the broad lines of the proposal for a new central bank law, setting up its own Committee on Monetary Policy and Financial Stability and providing the Central Bank with the management of the State pension fund abroad as its primary task. The alternative to this organisation would be to follow the recommendations of the Gedderm Committee, to add the management of the pension fund to a special law company outside the Bank of Norway. However, broad support has been provided in the consultation round to maintain the administration of the Bank of Norway. The most important thing is that the pension fund now has a board that has the management of the fund as its primary task. It implies that the competences of the Management Board must be aligned with this task, as the Committee points out in its observations. You also have to look at the three board members who will be permanently employed in the bank. When the Governing Board is to be composed of the governor, two central bank governors and six external members, it may be a challenge that one third of the members of the Governing Board are permanently employed in the bank. There will be extra demands on the external board members, which the Ministry of Finance must be very aware of when the board members are to be selected. Although it may not be directly comparable, there is a board fund set up in its position paper for the composition of the board of companies in which it invests. What is surprising in this setting is that it is only the Workers' Party and the SV who stress that the role of the Board must also include the development of the SPU's organisation and administrative practices — it must be part of the Governing Board's task — and that the Governing Board must have «necessary powers to reduce the risk in the Fund when specific conditions in the risk profile of the financial markets and the international economy so warrant». I understand that the parties to the government, as also the rapporteur mentioned in his statement, do not believe that ‘all essential decisions on the level of risk to be taken in the administration should be anchored in the Stortinget’. [[...]] It's not riding two horses. That just means that a mandate that gives this responsibility to the board is enshrined here in the Chamber. This may be done through the processing of the fund notification which is due to take place in April or in relation to the legislative proposal to follow up the processing of this deposit notification. The Fund is managed within tight limits and with a long-term horizon. High share capital implies a risk that varies over time. Bonds are also not risk-free, especially now — when the level of interest rates is increasing. Now, when we organise the administration with our own government, it is our intention – with all due respect for the job that has now been done – to further professionalise the administration. A not insignificant part of this must be to assess the risk profile. We have to remind each other how much of the state budget we pick from the fund's returns. In 2014, this was probably 13 p.m. by the State budget. This year it was up to 17 pst. In other words, we have become increasingly dependent on this contribution to cover the government budget deficit. Then it is not only the profitability of investment that is important but also the downside risk. Then it becomes strange that a board should not be responsible for dealing with such a situation within a defined framework. Let me also point out that some of us believe in the idea that it would be natural that the results of the fund also be measured against other, large global funds, not just against the reference index, and then of course with an assessment of the differences that may underlie the funds. There is a broad consensus on maintaining representation. But there is disagreement about the purpose paragraph of the Bank of Norway. We support LO and NHO in taking out the word ‘other’ in the second paragraph, thus placing greater emphasis on the importance of high and stable production and employment in the Norwegian economy. I hope the Minister of Finance will think about this once again when the bill is to be presented. We also agree that the generation perspective is reflected in the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e1322	The Central Bank Act we have today dates from 1985. Many have changed since that time. Monetary policy is no longer governed by exchange rates, but inflation targets. Financial markets have been deregulated and Norway’s Bank has been given responsibility for managing State pension funds abroad, SPU. This has led to major changes in the Bank's tasks. The problems have increased, and they have become more complex. The cancellation message we are dealing with today is a follow-up to investigations from the Gädrem committee. Following the treatment in Stortinget, the government will promote a bill on new central bank law. It's good that we can have discussions like this at regular intervals, and now we'll have the opportunity to discuss it in more rounds. That's good for democracy. The tasks of the Bank of Norway are of great importance both for us today and for future generations. A good monetary policy is essential for the stability and growth of the Norwegian economy, which greatly affects our common well-being today. Through State pension funds abroad, they also manage our common values for the future. The Board of Directors assessed different governance models in its investigation and recommended that the management of the State pension fund abroad be distinguished from the Bank of Norway and placed under a special law company governed by the Ministry of Finance. When Norway’s Bank was elected as manager of the State pension fund abroad, it was because they were independent of special interests and enjoyed great trust. This has not changed over the years. In addition, they may indicate good results. There is no need to make major changes in something that works well, and in that case you should have very good arguments to do so. The national pension fund abroad is a government fund that manages values on behalf of future generations. Such a fund will therefore be subject to completely different requirements, such as: greater transparency. A unanimous committee therefore agrees with the government that the SPU should remain under the Bank of Norway. The Committee also proposed to set up its own Committee on Monetary Policy and Financial Stability. This solves in many ways some of the things that have been identified as the main challenge today, namely that tasks have become bigger and more complex. It allows for greater emphasis to be placed on the different parts of the Bank's business. At the same time, the Governing Board will have the capacity to follow up the other parts of the Bank’s tasks, and in particular the management of the SPU. It is positive that it is proposed to maintain the representation. The representation is the control of the Storting against the Bank of Norway. Maintaining representation is a matter of fundamental principles such as popular control of an activity that manages values on behalf of the Community. Furthermore, it is assumed that the Riksrevision would have to build up a larger apparatus if the representation were to be cut down, and there are therefore no organisational savings there. Although it is to have a popular representation, it has been suggested that they should have overall the competence required by such a body. This is also in line with the representative’s own opinion and therefore uncontroversial. The organisation of the Bank of Norway and the management of the SPU are something that concerns us all. It is therefore healthy to have such debates on a regular basis in this Chamber. The fact that the parties largely agree on this, says something about Norwegian democracy. We agree on the major issues and the most important choices, and that is good – especially in a matter that concerns not only us who live today but also future generations.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e1339	I want to take the opportunity – hold on – to give the government some credit for the process you have set out on this matter. This is a major and important matter, for it is about which frameworks should lie over a long period of time. As has been pointed out earlier, it has been a long time since we last passed a central bank law in Norway. The fact that the government invites the Storting by going into dialogue for several rounds to try to put in place some frames that can stand over time is a wise procedure from the government. This could also lead to better decisions and decisions that may be overdue. I would definitely like to acknowledge that – and also the Financial Committee for having contributed to a good cooperation on this matter. I would also like to bring forward a matter, like a warning lamp, as I see it after attending the discussion in the committee of the vote that is here today. This concerns the purpose paragraph of the Bank of Norway. I think we all remember the rounds we had here last year about the new monetary policy regulation. There were different approaches from different parties, and there was an open discussion in Stortinget about something you should have sought to find broad consensus about and solved at an earlier time. Now there is the different proposal for a purpose paragraph for the Central Bank. We have made a concrete proposal on the part of the Centre Party, but I think it is important in the further work to help to ensure that the treatment of the central bank law is not perceived as a countermeasure to the new monetary policy regulation, and that it does not lead to new rounds of uncertainty about the governance of monetary policy in Norway. That is why I would also like to say to the representatives of the Workers' Party who have been up here that we should be a little careful about referring to the hearings that came to the report of the Committee on Central Bank Law before the new monetary policy regulation was established. I think it's important to try to have a dialogue with the Storting in the work on the Central Bank's purpose section and find a unified solution. Otherwise, we are very pleased by the Central Party that it is so clearly stated that Norway's Bank should continue to have a representation, which should contribute to democratically elected control of the Central Bank's activities. The activities of the Central Bank are of major importance to Norway as a nation. Great values are managed, and the decisions that are made are of great importance. It is therefore important to have democratic control, to have a critical corrigendum and, as has been pointed out by the Committee, to have the opportunity to make representations at an early stage of that process when, for example, it is about hiring a new governor. We also support the state pension fund abroad — that it should continue to be part of the Central Bank and that the new board of directors should place greater emphasis on the competence attached to that part of the business when a new monetary policy committee is created. With the importance of the State pension fund abroad, it is important to emphasise competences within the board of directors of the bank. Otherwise, I would also like to say that with regard to the management of the State pension fund abroad, we have the annual treatment of the fund notification, where the Centre Party and other parties tend to supplement a lot about what kind of view you have of the administration. I just want to stress that the Centre Party is of course for both a good ethical code and a responsible administration, as I believe we have just contributed through the treatment of the annual fund notifications and for the State pension fund abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e1360	I will briefly join in the comments we agree on, and the contribution to the representative Hansen, and I look forward to the government's legislative proposal in this matter. In general, we agree with the line the government has put on in the Storing Message. When the Central Bank Law Committee made up three alternatives, it's just to land on a model of option C wisely. At the same time, I would say that it is a pity that neither the selection nor the government has done a greater job of looking at how democratic control over, in particular, the State pension fund abroad can be increased. It could have been possible to imagine a model in which the fund is given a separate anchoring and connection to the Stortinget. Here, for example, one could. segregate a model corresponding to the EOS range. When this type of organisation – which would have increased democratic control of the State pension fund abroad – has not been examined, it is wise, in the SV’s view, to continue a model where the representation exercises democratic control over the Bank of Norway and the management of the State pension fund abroad. Here is a note about the representation and its role, which SV does not have in the setting, but in which we could have been involved. SV is associated with the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Greens' Greens' Party and Reds' comments on climate change and their consequences. Doubts have been raised that both the management of and the consequences of climate change will affect the world economy. That again will greatly affect our common savings. This recognition should have implications both for the management of the fund and for how we measure the result. Furthermore, it is evident that the fund, by its size, has a significant international impact. It can't be undermined. It also requires more of us who decide the management framework and who adopt the ethical code. Therefore, SV considers that the legal purpose of the fund should be more clearly addressed in terms of the importance of responsible management and the ethical framework of the fund.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e1373	Today's Central Bank Act dates from 1985. The tasks of the Bank of Norway have changed significantly since then. Among other things, monetary policy has been shifted from fixed rates to inflation targets, and the bank has been given the task of managing our common savings funds in the State pension fund abroad. In 2015, the government set up a sample to review the Central Bank Act in the light of these developments. The selection was to look at the governance structure of the Bank of Norway and the relationship between the Bank of Norway and the State authorities. It should also consider target formulations for the central bank. The mandate of the committee was subsequently extended to include an assessment of alternative governance models for the State pension fund abroad. The committee handed over its investigation in June 2017, and it has provided us with a solid and sound basis for our assessments. The choices we make affect our common future. The government therefore considers it important to have broad agreement on the organisation and governance of Norway’s Bank and the management of State pension funds abroad. In October 2018 we therefore submitted a separate notice to Stortinget. In the Communication, the Government stated that Norway’s Bank would continue to be the operational manager of the State pension fund abroad. At the same time, we proposed a new and more modern governance structure for the bank, mainly by setting up a Committee on Monetary Policy and Financial Stability. The Government also supported the maintenance of its representation as the Supervisory and Supervisory Body of the Storting. It contributes to ensuring the democratic anchoring of both the central bank and the management of the fund. We also proposed a clear set of objectives for the Bank of Norway and that the independence of the central bank in the use of instruments be made more clear in the law. The position of the Financial Committee shows that there is a broad consensus that the management of the State pension fund should remain abroad in the Bank of Norway. I'm glad. This approach also demonstrates broad support for the establishment of a separate Committee on Monetary Policy and Financial Stability. We need a good and stable framework for the Bank of Norway, and the setting facilitates this. The central message is the clarification of the purpose of the central bank activity. The Government considers that the objective should be to maintain a stable monetary value and promote stability in the financial system and an efficient and secure payment system. In addition, the Bank of Norway shall contribute to high and stable production and employment. I am pleased that the Financial Committee believes that such a provision of purpose will give the Bank a clear anchor in the Stortinget and provide a framework for the bank's exercise of its powers. I have also noticed that the Financial Committee agrees with the Government that the overall objective of production and employment is not only a general objective, but also an objective which must be reflected in the balances to be made by the Bank of Norway in its use of instruments. As the sample also pointed out, well-functioning wage formation, good labour market frameworks and fiscal policies that promote growth and stability are as important for production and employment over time as monetary policy. Therefore, the Bank of Norway cannot take a primary responsibility for the more structural level of production and employment, but the Bank can contribute. The members of the Financial Committee from the Workers' Party, SV and Rødt refer to the consultation recordings from among others. LO and NHO, which consider that consideration for high and stable production and employment needs to be given priority. In their letters of consultation, LO and NHO had a concrete proposal to take care of this, which we want to include in the bill. The government took note of some changes in the State pension fund law. The purpose of the law requires that the fund is to support, under State saving, the financing of pension expenditure and other long-term considerations relating to the use of State petroleum revenues. The objective of managing the State pension fund is the highest rate of return at the expense of a level of risk to be acceptable. It's got to be firm. It must also remain as transparent as possible and responsible and cost-effective as possible. The objective today follows the mandates of the AIFMs. Regardless of the organisation of the operational management of the State pension fund abroad, there is a substantial consideration that the objective of the fund structure is fixed. The government, based on this background, provides support for the framework. This includes, inter alia: clarification of the role of the State pension fund in financing the welfare state of the fund over the generations, the lawfulness of the management objective and the lawfulness of the internationalisation of the State pension fund. Finally, in its examination of the Communication, the Storting has arranged for the government to promote a legislative proposal on new central bank law and the amendments to the State pension fund law during the spring, as announced in the Communication. We're on track to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e1401	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e1406	I would like to thank the Council of State for its attendance when it came to assessing the purpose paragraph once more. The Government Platform announces an assessment of reporting requirements regarding SPU’s active ownership exercise. That's good, because the report to Stortinget is missing. The report Responsible Administration 2018 from Norway’s Bank reports that the owner dialogue SPU has had with companies in Indonesia and Malaysia on deforestation risks, with companies buying soya and meat in Brazil, and with 14 companies in the supply chain in the car industry on the conditions in the copper mines. The Company Dialogue is a follow-up of the Fund's expectations documents to the companies in which it is invested, and it may be an alternative to exclusion in the event of a breach of, for example: ethical guidelines. Will the Minister of Finance ensure that the Stortinget is involved in reporting on the impact of the Company Dialogue on the practices of the companies?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e1418	As the Stortinget is well known, within a few weeks the government will present the notification of the State pension fund. There will be many issues that will be the subject of discussion. I would assume that we will have ample opportunity to come back to the details of ownership, responsible management and other important issues related to how the fund operates. There are many themes and many questions that will be addressed in the next message, and I would like to encourage us to take the discussion on the details when the message is known.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e1423	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e1430	For me, this is a very big day. I was involved in the examination of the Central Bank Act on 23 April 1985, based on Innst. O nr. 50 for 1984–85. The reason why it's a big day is that almost all the parties now agree with me on what I was alone about in 1985. I followed the advice of the Norwegian Bank at the time and wanted an independent central bank. What happened in practice was that an AS became a subsidiary of the Ministry of Finance. Another discussion was the purpose of the Norwegian Bank for monetary policy. At that time, monetary policy was effectively added to government and expansion, with interest rate declarations followed up by the banking system. The setting of interest rates, which is, of course, the main monetary policy instrument, was a policy instrument, until practices were changed in 2001, when an inflation target was introduced. In today’s setting, the Committee notes on page 5 of the second column: «The Government proposes a new provision that the purpose of the Bank is to maintain a stable monetary value and to promote stability in the financial system and an efficient and secure payment system.» In my alternative purpose paragraph, it says: ‘Norges Bank is the country’s central bank. The Bank shall be a single executive and determining body for the field of money and credit. It shall seek and ensure a stable monetary value and shall pay particular attention to the sustainable balance of its economy in its activities.’;» There are also a number of other things in today's attitude that correspond to my very long and full minority comment – I made a complete alternative central bank law in 1985. It is therefore a great day when, in reality, it is now being warned about being promoted as a bill a little later, after dealing with this notification. Sometimes in public space there are questions about which trade economists agree with the Progress Party. There was no one at the time. Now all trade economists, including all parties, agree on what the Progress Party was all about in 1985. If anyone doubts my words, it's just reading Innst. O nr. 50 for 1984–85. I would also recommend the Minister of Finance to take a look at some of the points of view regarding who is going into the main board, etc. She will find many good answers in the Progress Party's special remark in that setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e1451	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e1469	This will be an interesting debate between the Minister of Justice and me. That's why I'm standing close to him, so that it gets a little bit more intimate. It is a pity that no more people are interested in this matter. The issue we are going to discuss is the use of power and the use of weapons by the police, especially against asylum seekers' families, and what framework and limitations we are going to have for it. I think that our task as a magnification is to prevent the development of a police force that drives to power use that is not necessary. I have asked several written questions about a few things that I will refer to, and where I am not quite satisfied with the answers I have received. It's an invitation to an open and good debate. I don't really think the Minister of Justice and I really disagree with any of these things, but we're now going to have an opportunity to discuss this openly. We have a police force that we trust, in Norway, that solves thousands of cases, essentially without power. It is statutory that the police should not use more force than is necessary. When necessary, stronger means of power can be used, of course, and we also believe it is right that the police use power even when sending and apprehending asylum seekers' families who do not have legal residence in the country. The question is how do they do it? On Friday 23 February last year, an Afghan asylum seeker family with three minor children was taken from a church asylum in Fitjar to be returned to Afghanistan. I am not commenting on their case related to stay and return, only the police's action on the apprehension. The operation has been filed with the Special Unit for Police Affairs, and of course I have respect for the fact that it cannot be discussed in Stortinget as long as it is under investigation. While the family was sleeping, at 5 p.m. 5 a.m., a police group from the police alien unit, PU, broke a window and broke up two doors with the crowbar on the bedroom where the family was sleeping. Witnesses and the family themselves tell us that they suddenly woke up at night by noise and squabbles when ten to twelve policemen suddenly stormed into the bedroom. The room was dark, the police carried headlights, and they had visible weapons to their hips. They trampled on up in double beds there the parents and the two oldest children lay asleep. A double-bed crack under the load, I have been told. Mother and father were wearing handcuffs, father also footcuffs. Outside the entrance door to the asylum reception, the police who had pulled their weapons out of the closet met. The children were left in the room in their pajamas under the supervision of the police. An eyewitness who saw this incident was pressed into a corner of the police, so that she would not intervene. To be absolutely sure if the police have used the weapon in this incident, I have asked it as a written question and got it confirmed by the former Minister of Justice. I want the president, the referee, the listener, and the Minister of Justice to imagine what it's like to be under the dyke with their children one night, while you're at the most vulnerable, at 0 p.m. 5 a.m. There is a lot of comfort and warmth in such a situation. Suddenly, a lot of trouble wakes you up, and then there are suddenly armed policemen up in bed. As described in the notification to the Special Unit, child-care experts who have subsequently examined the children claim that the police have harmed the children. They have been subjected to what can be called mental violence and inhuman and degrading treatment, which is actually a violation of the torture convention. This seems very unnecessary, because several of the police officers had taken part in an attack by the same family at another reception the year before – the same pattern of action, they broke up the door, headlights in the dark. Then Dad tried to kill himself, and he was transported to a hospital in a psychotic state. The police should have learned that this family was no danger, and they should also have learned that they should act with great caution towards this family. But unfortunately – the opposite happened. Six months later, another Afghan family, a family of six, was picked up by the police at Heiane's asylum office. There we have been told that a large number of police cars and 30 policemen participated. I will not go into detail on the matter, just tell them that the local government at Stord in a letter to the PU complained that the police almost occupied the reception. They also reacted to the fact that other families were not given pleasure to this family. They were physically prevented from doing so. The municipality reports in its complaint to the police that municipal health professionals have had to engage after the police action, and that neither health professionals in the municipality nor other health professionals were consulted before the police action was carried out. I'm not going to discuss matters in detail, because they are, among other things, in the course of an investigation, but as examples. The police directive states that the police can intervene in this way and with the legal means necessary and proportionate. They shall not resort to any more potent means until less stringent means have been tried and exercise shall, of course, be based on human rights. In these cases, the police have broken the instructions. Power and coercive measures have not been proportionate, milder means have not been tried. It's been shot with cannon against sparrows, to say it like that. I don't know what kind of information the police had on these issues, but it's not likely that they thought it was hiding a dangerous, armed terrorist in the church asylum that made it necessary for them to act almost in SWAT-command-action-style. The police knew the family. They are now kept under mild supervision in retrospect. The family is now in a new town, in a new church asylum, and it has been told that they themselves have taken to the new church asylum in the taxi. So a very dangerous family is this hardly, and there's got to be a big question mark on the reason why the police were going to use such violent means of power, including weapons, in the attack. It's important that we get a debate on the fundamental basis here, without going into any detail on these matters. I am concerned that the Minister of Justice is clarifying what he will do to prevent the emergence of a kind of subculture in the police that legitimizes this kind of power. I am also concerned that the Minister of Justice is clearly aware of what he will do to prevent this type of use of power from being instructed through the command line of the local police department and of the individual police officers. What does he want to do to prevent that kind of action in the order line? Got e.g. the various officials here order that they break up the door, trample into double beds and treat the family in that way? Did they get the order for that act, or was there anything the individual police officer on the spot found himself? I also want to have a debate on what the Minister of Justice will do with policemen who are attracted to this kind of police action. We want a police force in Norway that acts with caution and in line with the guidelines we have and that does not use unnecessary power. Then it is absolutely essential that both the Minister of Justice and we of the Grand Duchy take care that we do not get a development in the police where stronger powers are used, especially in cases where small children are present.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e1499	The President just wants to remind you that Stortinget's meetings are streaming on the biggest.no, so I might be able to reassure the representative that there will be more inside and outside the Stortinget following this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e1504	Thank you, President!
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e1509	Initially, I would like to stress that decisions which are legally taken by the Norwegian authorities are binding on everyone, even when the decision is difficult to bear for the individual. Therefore, a family of asylum seekers who have been refused their asylum applications after a thorough examination are obliged to leave Norway. If former asylum seekers fail to comply with a legally adopted decision, the Foreign Affairs Act provides the basic basis for forced return. Being able to return those who are refused is a central aspect of the institution of asylum and has important signal effects for any future arrivals and stays without authorisation. When a foreigner without a residence permit in Norway is apprehended for the purpose of transportation, this is done in accordance with the applicable instructions for the execution of outbound transport operations, the transport instructions, at the Foreign Affairs Department of the Police. The instructions provide clear guidance on the assessments to be made before the attack and the considerations to be taken into account in particular. All shipments from Norway shall be carried out in a humane, dignified and safe manner. At the same time, I would like to stress that it is the police who are to make the police professional judgements in a specific matter. In general, I can inform you that the police will do a thorough preparatory work, in accordance with the transport instructions, before embarking on an out-of-carriage operation. a risk assessment, where all available information on the person is analysed. The risk assessment shall take into account a number of factors, including the safety of both the person himself and others, the number of persons, cultural and language challenges, the possibility of avoidance, etc. The evaluations form the basis for police planning of the apprehension and further deployment of outbound transport. Where there are likely to be special risks, the police shall consider the implementation of specific security measures. In matters involving children, the situation of children must always be taken into account, and the best interests of children are a fundamental concern for police assessments as well. The foreign police unit has good pediatric competence. This competence is constantly being increased, and the Foreign Affairs Unit of the Police has, among other things. the involvement of two of the top experts in the area in Norway. In this context, the Foreign Affairs Department of the Police has developed a child-care counsellor for the police, the apprehension and transport of children, which was published in October 2018. The supervisor was developed as part of the Children’s Training Project in the Foreign Policy Unit, which has defined child-care principles for police work, with the aim of reducing harmful stress to children, young people and children’s families. This guide will provide the basis for police handling of transport involving children. As has previously been stated in answers to written questions last year about the attack on Fitjar and the question last autumn about the attack received by Heiane, police professional judgements are the basis for any appeal in connection with the deportation. I stress that it is the police who are going to make the police professional assessments in the specific case. These are operational assessments of what measures are deemed necessary in each case and will be based on circumstances that could in circumstances also be subject to deafness. It is therefore not natural for me to address what specific assessments were made in these individual cases, in addition to providing information on the general criteria to be included in the police risk assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e1522	Thank you for your reply to the Minister of Justice. I am aware of the police procedures, duties and regulations in terms of transportation, and I am, of course, 100 pst. understood that police can use coercive measures when asylum seekers oppose return. That's not what we're talking about in this case. We're talking about the way this is done. It does not allow the Minister of Justice to answer. He generally answers about their obligations, but here we talk about how this was done. He says these are police assessments. Of course it is, but I am concerned about what a Minister of Justice does when he sees that the police professional assessments and orders given on how this should happen do not correspond to the necessity in these cases. Then the Minister of Justice can no longer cover himself up about the fact that the police themselves have made this up. Then the Minister of Justice must take action and correct the behaviour of the police. It is absolutely vital that we have a neutral police force in Norway. It should not be the case that the police should behave more harshly on the basis of their own opinions. Because the police are all innocent until the court has said its own. A police officer who either in the order line or in the execution goes over the line of power, acts as both judges and punishments, and so they have nothing to do with it. In asylum matters, the police have to attack, but not frighten – they have nothing to do with that either. What concerns me in these matters is that the families described here, of course, have called friends and acquaintances and told me about the meeting with the Norwegian police. They have called the world and told us that the meeting with the Norwegian police has been frightening because the police have acted brutally. In this way, the police's most disproportionate actions have coincided with the government's desire to send horrific signals to potential asylum seekers that they are unwelcome in Norway. And in this way – whether intentional or not – police action here has contributed almost to being an operational communication tool for the government's refugee and asylum policy. That's precisely when we're in a very unyielding waters. If the police officers think they can afford this use of power because they've caught the government wanting to deter asylum seekers, they've misunderstood their job, and we have to ask if they're suitable for this type of service. And if government politicians and the Minister of Justice look through the finger with this kind of gross use of power in the police because it fits in with their desire to send horrific signals, then we have politicians in Norway who don't understand the importance of neutral police and asylum seekers' legal certainty.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e1535	The representative assumes what he calls ‘the way this was done’ in these cases. Then the representative takes on concrete issues where we do not have an overview of what has happened, and we do not know what assessments have been made. These matters are to be reviewed by the Special Device. They will also have access to what we would normally call confidentiality-related information, and confidentiality-related information is not a shield we use to hide behind. It's also important for those who are exposed to this, it's about privacy considerations. But there's a professional assessment that's being done, and it's being, or can be, verified by the Special Unit. The representative believes that the way it was done does not correspond to the necessity. Well, that's not a conclusion I can draw. In my opinion, that is pure speculation. I assume that the police are doing what is necessary until the Specialty Unit reaches a different result, if necessary. But then to something that is perhaps more important: in the posts of the representative, there are many indirect accusations against policemen. He's talking about "subculture," he's talking about "action"-looking policemen, and he's talking about policemen who are not neutral political but who are trying to make their own interpretations of government policy. There is no basis at all to claim. The police force we have, including in the Foreign Affairs Department, is doing an important job, and they're doing the right job. It's not always as popular, but I'm very happy that they're willing to do that job, and there's no need to speculate in subcultures, as the representative does in his post. Then you have to be more specific, you have to have concrete things to document it, so that particular speculation I actually want to distance myself from. I believe that the police who do this job are fit to do a good job, and there are difficult assessments to make. There are police assessments, and there is a need for judgement. Then I'm not among those who believe that that judgment cannot be discussed, but discussing discretion is something quite different than attaching to these policemen motives, subcultural motives, which I have no basis for saying they have.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e1544	Does the interpellant want a closing article? – Then the interpellanten, Petter Eide, will have the floor for a closing post, up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e1549	I thank you for a very fundamental feedback. So I do not claim that we have a police officer who does not act neutrally and uses his own political convictions to do his police work. I'm busy preventing just that, and I'm assuming that some of the events that I've been reported about can give indications that there is a risk that it is. In this interview, I have asked the Minister of Justice what he wants to do to prevent the development of such a subculture in the police, and I do not prove that it is, but I ask what he will do to prevent it from happening. Then I have asked him whether it is such that some of the police's actions in these two events I referred to coincide with the political desire of this government to discourage asylum seekers. I have asked the Minister of Justice to clarify clearly how he, as a politician, should – and it is quite right – separate the fact that people who seek asylum should not necessarily be welcome to Norway, from the fact that the police should not be used as a tool in that very communication to the world. I did not get an answer to that either. We don't want a police force used in that kind of political campaign – I don't think the police do either – but I'm concerned about what the Minister of Justice has to do to prevent it from happening like that, and that's how it gets perceived.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e1566	The debate on substance is closed. 7 is over. The President proposes that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 8 to 10 is treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e1608	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e1620	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e1629	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e1646	A total of 13 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-8, by Nina Sandberg, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 9, from Nina Sandberg on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No 10, from Marit Arnstad on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 11, from Marit Arnstad on behalf of the Center Party the proposals No 12 and 13, from Mona Fagerås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 12, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to establish an accreditation and re-entry system for colleges and to return to the Storting in an appropriate manner.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e1681	There is a vote on proposal No. 11th from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to facilitate increased activity in the institute sector as an important forum for connecting research with private and public enterprises.’ The Labour Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e1698	There is a vote on proposal No. 10, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to map the knowledge base of the vocational schools and to undertake a placement of higher vocational education of level 6 in the qualification framework.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e1715	There is a vote on proposal No. 9, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to make the necessary changes so that more of its research resources are subject to open competition.»
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e1730	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-8, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: «The government is asked to return to Stortinget with a need assessment and proposals to increase the research efforts of the departments.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for greater inclusion of the needs of small and medium-sized enterprises in the priorities of research and higher education. The Research Council, Innovation Norway and the other award bodies shall facilitate increased activity in all parts of the business community.’.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: «The government is asked to set up its own research programme for innovation and transformation in the public sector with a particular focus on how to organise and finance good municipal services.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to assess the current risks and consequences of Plan S in dialogue with the parties and relevant organisations.’;» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The size requests the government to include entry plans for study places and recruitment positions in the context of the rolling of the next long-term plan.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘As part of the long-term plan, the government is asked to draw up an investment plan, a staging for investments, and major construction and maintenance projects of buildings in the higher education sector, as specified in the request Decision 375, 27 January 2015.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to come back with a stepping-up plan for the number of post-secondary education places, which takes account of the growing needs of trade union workers.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking, in its work on a reform of labour skills, to anchor the reform of competence in the priorities of the Long-term Research and Higher Education Plan in order to ensure the coherence and coherence of education and competence policy.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e1786	There is a vote on proposal No. 13, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a reduction in the proportion of temporary posts among scientific staff to the level of other employment and, in cooperation with the sector, for an obligatory plan on how to achieve the objective.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e1819	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Åsunn Lyngedal, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party the proposals No 3 and 4, from Sigbjørn Gælsvik on behalf of the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party proposal No 5, from Sigbjørn Gælsvik on behalf of the Centre Party proposal No 6, from Åsunn Lyngedal on behalf of the Workers' Party There is a vote on proposal No. Five from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to come back with a proposal for a new central securities law that takes national security and Norwegian interests into account and ensures that Norwegian securities are attractive to foreign capital.’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e1849	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 and 4 from the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: «The government asks, among other things: in the light of today’s security policy situation, set up a selection to assess the ownership of the CSD and come back to the size of the issue at the latest in the spring of 2020 financial market notification.’;» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to avoid major changes in the ownership of the Oslo Stock Exchange’s VPS Holding ASA until the Storting has dealt with a case on the ownership of the CSD’.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e1871	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a proposal for a change to the Central Securities Act so that the disclosure obligation on real owners, which AIFMs currently have to tax authorities and financial supervision, is extended in such a way that AIFMs also have an obligation to disclose information to the shareholder register.’;» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to return to Stortingen with an assessment of limitations on the number of administrators to be allowed to use, and to ensure that all administrators in the chain have the approval of the Financial Supervisory Authority when registering administrators of Norwegian securities.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e1893	There is a vote on proposal No. 6 from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to assess the continuation of current rules on control by acquisitions of significant holdings in the VPS, as set out in. Section 5-2 of the Securities Register Act.’ The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have given their support to the proposal. The centre party has notified subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e3485	The Central Party and Red have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e3499	My voice was not registered!
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e3504	Neither is mine!
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e3509	So let's do it again.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e3521	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Central Party and Red have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e3547	Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e3591	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e3600	Case No. 8–10 are the second time legal proceedings and concern legislative acts 39 to 41. There are no comments. Thus, the law of the Storting has been passed on the second time and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-19.ana.ud550e3646	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
