ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e73	Three permit applications are available: from the Workers' Group on the sick leave of the representative Else-May Botten Norderhus from 13 May onwards and until further notice from the Socialist Left Group on welfare leave of the representative Mona Fagerås from 14 May to 16 May from the representative of Lene Westgaard-Halle on parental leave from 14 May to 23 May On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For More and Romesdal counties: Tove-Lise Square 14 May and until further notice For the Nordic counties: Marius Meisfjord Jøsevold 14-16. May For the Vestfold province: Renate Silver 14-23. May
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e125	The representative, Sigbjørn Gülsvik, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e130	On behalf of the representatives of Geir Pollestad, Per Olaf Lundtägen and myself, I would like to promote a proposal for a representative to strengthen the position of the cash.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e135	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e153	69 years ago today, France’s foreign minister Robert Schuman presented the idea of establishing a European Coal and Steel Community. The Kimen to today's EU was sown. The aim of placing French and German coal and steel production under a common authority was not only to make war between European neighbours unimaginable but also impossible. In the period 1870-1945 Germany and France fought three wars. Today, war between these two countries is not possible to imagine. In memory of the Schuman declaration, today was the European Day. The EU has played a central role in promoting peace and stability in Europe. It is therefore appropriate to recall that the very desire for peace and cooperation between neighbours was the starting point for European integration. Among the EU Member States, we find our closest like-minded and cooperative partners. The EU is our main partner in defending committed international cooperation. The Norwegian travel agency is the EEA Agreement, but the EU is more than economic integration, and cooperation with the EU goes beyond the internal market and the four freedoms. Together with the heads of the other 30 EEA countries, the Prime Minister celebrated the 25th anniversary of the EEA Agreement on 22 March. The President of the European Council, Donald Tusk, emphasised in his speech that the EEA Agreement is a partnership in which all contribute and all regain. Over the 25 years since the agreement entered into force, we have experienced an almost continuous upturn in the Norwegian economy. Norway has had strong welfare developments. Full access to the second largest market for Norwegian business through a common regulatory framework has been a prerequisite. The same applies to access to skilled labour from the whole EEA territory. We're going to keep contributing. Our common future well-being depends on Europe's strong competitiveness. We need to facilitate the creation of growth and employment. We need to ensure the good European solutions to the challenges facing our citizens and Europeans, such as climate change and migration, but also social inclusion and inequality. It is particularly important in a troubled time when nationalism and protectionism win terrain. The EEA Agreement is also much more than market access for business and more than even the most advanced free trade agreements. Studying and working in another European country can be a matter of course today. However, it is far from obvious, but a result of cross-political choices and made possible by the EEA Agreement. The only other form of association that would give us at least as good opportunities as the EEA is full membership of the EU. Brexit has shown that picking the benefits of the internal market and not taking part in the obligations is not possible. A less committed cooperation mechanism with the EU will therefore also give us fewer rights. No investigation into alternatives to the EEA Agreement, proposed by some parties, could provide us with a certain response to the alternatives available. These issues can only be resolved in real negotiations with the EU as a counterparty. It is almost three years since the United Kingdom voted in a referendum to leave the EU. The agreement to ensure that this is done in a tidy manner has been voted down three times in the British House of Commons. In April, brexit was exposed, potentially as long as it lasted until 31 October. For the time being, the United Kingdom remains an EU member and is now preparing to implement elections to the European Parliament in two weeks’ time. If there is a majority in the House of Commons, the United Kingdom can leave the EU in a tidy manner before 31 October. Otherwise, you can get a brexit without an exit agreement, a so-called ‘no deal’. It is therefore not possible today to be sure when the United Kingdom will leave the EU. We also do not know whether they will leave the EU with or without an agreement. This uncertainty is challenging for all, including Norway. We have to be prepared for more potential outcomes, and we are. Since the previous presentation, a lot has fallen into place on the Norwegian side. If the notice agreement is approved, we are prepared with a separate agreement between the EEA/EFTA States and the United Kingdom reflecting the notice agreement. This agreement means, inter alia: that, under the EEA Agreement, at the time of withdrawal, these rights will continue to be enjoyed by the Nordics with rights in the United Kingdom. The same will apply to Britons in Norway. This agreement will be signed as soon as the EU and the United Kingdom have signed their agreement. We have also prepared for the United Kingdom to leave the EU without an agreement. In April, we signed an agreement that means that British people living in Norway today, and Norwegians living in the United Kingdom today, can stay there, even though the United Kingdom would leave the EU without an agreement. We have also signed an agreement between Norway, Iceland and the United Kingdom on trade in goods. In addition, we have found solutions with the United Kingdom for road transport, air transport and maritime transport. These schemes mainly ensure that current trade and relations with the United Kingdom can continue under existing conditions. Negotiations on fisheries management have also been successful, but have not been concluded because the time limit for brexit was extended. We therefore await the signing of the agreement. We've also used regulatory changes to prepare. This applies, inter alia, to: in areas such as securities trading, the import of medicinal products, professional qualifications and social security rights. The EU has also proposed a number of temporary emergency regulations in the case of ‘no deal’. In cases where they are EEA-relevant, they are incorporated into the EEA Agreement. In other words, we have come as far as we can in the preparations on our part, giving it the uncertainty and unforeseeableness that still prevails. In two weeks, the new European Parliament will be elected. In several countries, the dividing lines do not go primarily along traditional party axes, but rather between pre- and pre-EU parties. It increases political polarisation – but perhaps also the involvement of voters. The fact that the election campaign will be subjected to disinformation campaigns is a concern, as we have seen in several national elections in recent years. The European Parliament elections consist of 27 separate national elections, 28 with the United Kingdom, which run over several days and with several hundred national political parties, tens of thousands of polling places and about one third of them. 400 million voting rights. It may make the choice of the European Parliament a particularly tempting target for actors who wish to destroy democratic processes by manipulating and disseminating misleading information. The European Parliament has gradually increased its importance in the EU. When the EEA Agreement was signed in 1992, the European Parliament continued to play only a consultative role, but when the agreement entered into force in 1994, Parliament, through the Maastricht Treaty in 1993, was co-appointed with the Internal Market Regulatory Council. In other words, the European Parliament has played an important role, ever since the entry into force of the EEA Agreement in 1994, in the drafting of EEA-relevant EU legislation. Today, Parliament is equated with the Council in most areas where the EU makes common legislation. It still has a more limited role in other areas, for example: foreign and security policy. However, MEPs have shown that they can influence the political agenda in the EU even when the formal mandate is limited. This means that Parliament is important for Norway also in areas outside EEA cooperation. We will therefore work as quickly as possible to establish contact with central, newly elected European parliamentarians. It is also important to establish and maintain good party political channels for cooperation with our sister parties in the European Parliament. This is how we can better understand and contribute to important European debates that also affect Norway. That is why I repeat my general call for all parties on the Stortinget to use their party political channels actively. The European Parliament elections are also the starting point for the election of the new President of the Commission by Jean Claude Juncker and the appointment of a new College of Commissioners. A new President of the European Council shall also be elected after Donald Tusk, a new High Representative for the Common Foreign and Security Policy of the European Union after Federica Mogherini and a new Head of the European Central Bank after Mario Draghi. The new Commission will present its priorities towards the end of the year. The government will work actively to make Norwegian interests visible to the members of the new Commission, new MEPs and the rest of the EU leadership. An important consideration will be to communicate the centrality of participation in the internal market through the EEA for Norway. Dissemination of knowledge about the EEA Agreement is to suspend cooperation. One year ago today, the government presented its strategy for cooperation with the EU. Both in the strategy and in the work programme, our main message is that Norway will continue to contribute to a safe, free and economically strong Europe, where countries take joint responsibility for common challenges. I hope that the new Commission will continue and intensify efforts to promote respect for the rule of law and the other common values underlying European cooperation. The current Commission has initiated a so-called Article 7 procedure against Poland for possible breaches of the EU's fundamental values. The European Parliament has taken similar initiatives towards Hungary. Furthermore, the Commission has proposed a new mechanism in the EU’s new long-term budget, which links transfers of funds to compliance with fundamental rule of law. Where national courts are not in a position to ensure proper compliance with EU law, e.g.: because they have too tight links with the executive, the internal market of the EU is also threatened. The proposal allows the Commission to hold back, reduce or limit transfers to Member States that do not comply with the rule of law. The mechanism is not aimed at any particular country. Norway supports the EU defence of the rule of law. Respect for the rule of law and independent courts is a prerequisite for democracy and for individual legal certainty. It is also a prerequisite for the functioning of the internal market and the EEA and essential for cooperation in justice and police matters. The core of European cooperation, of which we are part, is precisely that we trust each other's justice and trust that everyone respects the commitments made. The government, together with the EU, will seek to influence governments that adopt legislative reforms and take other decisions that undermine an independent judiciary and the European Convention on Human Rights. We will both work bilaterally and cooperate with other countries, both Nordic neighbours and the EU, in relevant forums such as the Council of Europe, the OSCE and Nordic cooperation venues to keep countries responsible for their commitments. In addition, we shall continue to pay particular attention to the status of civil society in Europe. In several countries, the authorities actively hamper the work of non-governmental organisations, while restricting freedom of expression and media pluralism. Through the EEA funds, Norway contributes to strengthening civil society and the justice sector in the beneficiary countries, in line with the principles of rule of law, democracy and good governance. Independent management of civil society funds is an important principle. Agreements have now been concluded on the use of the funds with 14 of the 15 beneficiary countries. We are still negotiating with Hungary, where there remains to be an agreement on the management of the fund for civil society. A key task for the new EU leaders will be to further develop security and defence cooperation. Much has happened in the EU only in the last three years. The development of a European Defence Fund and permanent structured defence cooperation – PESCO – are two examples. The European Defence Fund shall be established as a permanent arrangement from 2021. The aim is to contribute to joint defence research, development and acquisition of military resources. Norway participates as the only non-member, through the EEA Agreement, in the Fund’s pilot scheme for defence research. Kongsberg Defence & Aerospace participates in the winning consortium from 2018. The Commission has proposed that the permanent fund also be opened to EFTA countries participating in the EEA. The proposal is now being discussed in the EU as part of the discussions on the long-term budget and will be on the agenda of the Finnish EU Presidency in the autumn. The Government is working towards the institutions of the EU and its Member States to ensure Norway's ability to participate in the Fund under the conditions laid down in the EEA Agreement. We continue this work with unreserved strength. Norwegian participation in the defence fund is considered to be important for Norwegian defence, defence and defence industries. At the same time, Norwegian participation through the EEA Agreement will be costly. The government has therefore initiated an in-depth analysis of security and defence policy, and socio-economic aspects related to any Norwegian participation. The government also follows closely the development of EU permanent structured defence cooperation – PESCO. The EU has decided that, exceptionally, third countries will be able to participate in specific projects, but the detailed conditions for this participation have not been decided. The government is working to identify projects of particular interest to Norway and where we can bring added value to cooperation that underpins Norwegian interests. Safety requirements for the deployment of 5G mobile networks are a central theme in Europe today. 5G will connect millions of sensors in total from factories and hydropower plants to autonomous vehicles and household appliances. It makes it even more important to safeguard against vulnerability than in previous generation mobile networks. The attention of 5G is also linked to the tensions in the trade policy relationship between the United States and China. There is great competition among global companies about who will first be out delivering the new networks for the Internet of Things. The message from the United States has been that equipment from Chinese technology companies can pose a safety risk to European networks. The United States has also warned countries such as the United Kingdom and Germany that the inclusion of Chinese equipment may have implications for existing security cooperation. EU countries have approached the problem in different ways. It is a national decision on them, for example: wish to exclude companies from their markets, based on national security considerations. At the same time, we see that the EU is now developing a more coordinated policy. The Commission has published recommendations on a pan-European approach to security challenges in 5G networks. The discussions in Brussels have so far been concentrated on measures to reduce vulnerabilities and address identified safety risks rather than the total ban on equipment by specific actors. As a result, efforts are stepped up to improve the implementation of existing EU rules and new EU rules on a high common level of security in network and information systems. This is called the NIS Directive. The NIS Directive is expected to enter into force in the EU in the near future and will be EEA-relevant. The security mechanisms of EU procurement legislation and the foreign direct investment review mechanism are instruments that are already in place and that can strengthen Europe’s resilience. Our own new security law also provides for investments and acquisitions. New framework for the certification of safety standards in ICT products and services could also reduce vulnerabilities in the Internet communications networks. Here, the development of a certification system for 5G equipment under the auspices of the European Network and Information Security Agency could become an important priority. In the ongoing work on clarifying safety requirements in our own mobile networks, it is important to follow closely the further discussions in the EU. The government wants Norway to be a driver of international climate change work. The ambitions of other countries in climate policy play a major role in Norway's ability to achieve our objectives. When a major player such as the EU strengthens its objectives, it triggers more technology development and transformation in business. The government will work to increase the EU’s overall ambition to 55 p.m. and will report an enhanced Norwegian climate target in line with EU ambitions. In the climate field, the Nordic countries share the same international objectives, commitments and challenges. The Nordic region has the best conditions for making a difference — both regionally, in the European context and globally. In January of this year, Nordic ministers of state and environment met at a Nordic climate summit in Helsinki and agreed to step up their ambitions in the field of climate change. The ambition towards 2030 and 2050 is that the Nordic region should take leadership through effective regional climate and environmental cooperation. With a joint agreement to meet the 2030 emission target, the EU Climate Framework for Emissions that is not part of the ETS will also apply to Norway. We have been impressed by our position that cooperation is included as voluntary cooperation in Protocol 31 to the EEA Agreement. The draft agreement is now under consideration in the EU. Norway is part of the EU internal energy market through the EEA Agreement. As an integral part of the internal electricity market, we are also affected by EU regulatory design in the field through the EEA Agreement. Here it is important that we continue to maintain the well-functioning Nordic electricity market together with our Nordic neighbouring countries. It's very central that we can record positions on future market design together, which has already been done to a large extent. It is positive that the third energy market package is now being dealt with in Iceland, so that the legislation can, hopefully, come into force and that we will have uniform rules in the Nordic electricity market. The good functioning of the gas market in Europe is also important for Norwegian gas supply to the EU/EEA region. When Stortinget dealt with the matter of the third energy market package in spring 2018, it became clear that the national legislation on power network concessions, foreign tables and power plants will continue to apply. This is about the organisation of the power market and power trading in existing infrastructure, not about the construction of new cables. We support the EU's ambition to develop a clean and competitive energy sector, at the lowest possible cost. It is in our common interest to have a positive development in this area. Norway already has ambitious renewable energy targets. Our renewable share is close to 70 pst. Good access to renewable energy enables us to further invest in the electrification of the transport sector and other sectors. Norway has followed the process linked closely to the Clean Energy Package. We have continuously taken Norwegian views, in particular related to the new market legislation. In addition, the EU has adopted new rules on energy efficiency, building energy and renewable energy. A new regulation on a management and reporting system for the Energy Union has also been adopted. We will now assess the adopted legislation in a regular way in the EEA process. The Ministry of Oil and Energy has already carried out a consultation process. Norway covers about one quarter of the EU’s gas needs and is the EU’s second largest supplier after Russia. Norwegian gas will continue to be an important part of the EU energy mix, including towards a low-carbon society. Replacing coal with gas will allow a rapid reduction in greenhouse gas emissions and a local improvement in air quality. Gas also works well with non-regulatory production such as solar and wind power. In recent years, hydrogen has received increased attention in the EU, and several have pointed to the possibility of converting natural gas into hydrogen in combination with the capture and storage of CO2, known as CCS, as an almost zero-emission option. It is also mentioned in the EU's low-emission strategy up to 2050. The latest Special Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change shows that CCS will be important to reduce emissions in line with the objective of limiting global warming to 1.5 degrees. The Commission also points to this technology as important if the EU is to achieve the objective of net zero emissions by 2050. We work with a focus on closer cooperation with both the Nordic and the EU in the further development of technologies for CCS. On 20 March 2019, the ESA decided not to open a formal investigation into the so-called light refusion in the petroleum tax. Light refuelling is an integral part of the petroleum tax and implies that exploration costs are treated equally in petroleum companies within and outside the tax position. The decision means that ESA agrees with Norway that exploration does not constitute State aid under the EEA Agreement. The pressure on migration towards Europe has been reduced compared to peaks in 2015 and 2016 as a result of joint European action. However, the number of asylum seekers, irregular border crossings and loss of life during the migration process remains high. Government policy to meet today's migration challenges affects the whole migration chain. Through our commitment to health, education, job creation and business, we help improve people's chances of getting a better life in their own countries. We are also involved in common European solutions. In an EU context, we actively contribute through support to Frontex and EASO, the European Asylum Support Office, as well as contributions to the EU Multi-stakeholder Fund for Africa, which is the financial instrument under the Valletta Action Plan. Through the EEA funds, we also contribute to strengthening asylum treatment and reception capacity in Greece, Bulgaria and Romania. The UN and the EU give priority to getting vulnerable migrants out of Libya. The resettlement of refugees to third countries and the return of migrants who do not need international protection to their country of origin are being undertaken. Norway contributes to the resettlement of refugees evacuated from Libya. Norway is also participating in the current border and visa regime and in the negotiations related to the new financial instrument for borders and visas. The proposal is Schengen-relevant and binding for Norway and is intended to triple the current costs. The aim is to strengthen the external border control. Globally, we are working on the design of a follow-up mechanism for the UN migration platform, and our input is not about helping to expand the interpretation of the text adopted last December. Finally, let me mention some of the relevant EEA issues. The free movement of workers is a central part of European cooperation. It is not to be overlooked that a single European labour market has also created challenges. This takes the government very seriously. The relationship between the EEA Code and Norwegian Labour Codes can sometimes create both commitment and debate. Nevertheless, the EEA Code, in total, is a good practice for Norwegian working life and has also led to strengthened labour rights in areas where we did not have equivalent national legislation before. Examples are the rule on the rights of employees in the event of business transfers. Other examples include rules on written working arrangements, mass redundancies, information and consultation with employees, working environment standards and non-discrimination rules for hired workers. EEA law is broadly flexible and allows us to define national schemes, including: in order to counteract the criminality of work. The EU has also recently taken many initiatives to contribute to more social equality, to strengthen labour rights and to combat crime in the labour market. Earlier this year, the EU adopted a new directive on clear and predictable working conditions. Norway already has a comprehensive legal framework to ensure this. It is positive that the EU also prioritises good and fair employment for each employee. We are now considering the further follow-up to the directive with us. It is also expected that a European labour market agency will be established during 2019. It can strengthen cooperation on the protection of workers’ rights and facilitate the fight against cross-border crime at work, in accordance with the input from Norway sent by the EU. The government is emphasising on ensuring good opportunities for Norwegian participation in those cooperation venues that will be linked to the new labour market agency. In order for workers to benefit from the free movement of persons, it is essential that they do not lose their social security rights if they move to or take up work in another Member State. Social security rights are coordinated by the social security regulations. These regulations are regularly revised and EU countries are now negotiating a compromise. The starting point for coordination will continue to be that a person entitled to social security benefits in one Member State must not lose his right by moving to another Member State. In the field of unemployment benefits in particular, it is challenging to reach agreement. The proposal involves increased access to exports of unemployment benefits compared to today. Negotiations in the EU have been lengthy. On 29 March the Council rejected a compromise proposal with the European Parliament. On 19 April Parliament decided to postpone the procedure until the autumn. On 28 June last year, the EU adopted amendments to the Posting of Workers Directive. The Directive establishes a framework for which Norwegian rules on pay and working conditions may and shall apply to posted workers. The revised Directive introduces inter alia: a principle of ‘equal pay for equal work at the same place’. The aim is that posted workers should be subject to the same conditions as workers in the country in which the work is carried out. It is positive that the EU aims at more equal treatment between posted and local workers in terms of pay and working conditions. It will contribute to competitiveness based on competence and innovation, not just on wages. In the view of the government, this is a step in the right direction, towards a more integrated and fair internal market. This may lead to more equivalent conditions of competition between foreign and national activities. The revised Posting Directive also clarifies the travel, diet and lodging rules applicable to posted workers. In October last year, the Customs Tariff adopted some amendments to the Norwegian rules in this field. It is clear from the decision that the subject matter of the tariff has taken account of the revised broadcasting directive. By virtue of the EEA Agreement, Norwegian financial undertakings are free to establish and provide their services throughout the EEA territory and European undertakings can provide services in Norway. This is positive for Norwegian industry and the Norwegian financial market. It is therefore important that the Financial Supervisory Authority has broad and close contact with the financial supervision in the rest of the EEA territory. The principles for the relationship of the EEA/EFTA countries with the European Banking, Insurance and Securities Regulators Offices were established in 2014. Financial supervision participates fully as a member of the supervisory bodies, but without voting rights. We have good experience with the cooperation. The European Council and the European Parliament agreed in March on proposals from the Commission for a revision of the regulatory framework for the financial supervisory agencies. For Norway and the other EEA/EFTA countries, it has been important to establish that the balanced solution of the EEA/EFTA States in the three European Financial Supervisors must be maintained. It is therefore positive that the governance structure of the supervisory agencies is maintained in the main during the audit and that the body where national supervision is represented remains the top decision-making body. The agreement on the audit also implies that supervisory authorities have some supplementary supervisory competence, including: in the whitewashing area. The great aftermath of financial market acts adopted by the EU but not incorporated into the EEA Agreement has been a challenge for EEA cooperation ever since the establishment of the structure of EU financial supervision. In March, the EEA Committee was halved by the inclusion of 155 acts relating, inter alia, to EU banking capital requirements legislation and EU securities trading legislation. Since September 2016, when the supervisory agency regulations were incorporated into the EEA Agreement, some 300 financial market acts have been incorporated into the EEA Agreement. The government is concerned with road safety and a level playing field in the transport sector. It follows from the Granavolden platform that the government will actively work towards the liberalisation of cabotage legislation and to reduce the scope of illegal cabotage operations. In May 2017, the Commission presented the Mobility Package, including: proposals for new rules on freight cabotage. Norway has allied itself with Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, Greece, Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, Switzerland and Sweden in the Road Alliance Association. We share the concern that the rules on road safety and social rights and working conditions should be subject to abuse and fraud in the European freight market. Norway is actively using the Road Alliance to promote Norwegian views. The mobility package has been highly controversial in the EU system. The Council and the European Parliament have adopted their internal positions, but they must negotiate with the Commission before new legislation can be adopted. It is estimated that the final decision in the EU will only take place after the new European Parliament and the new European Commission are in place. In its speech on the marking of the 25th anniversary of the EEA Agreement, President Tusk summarised why EEA cooperation is so valuable: that 500 million people can travel and move wherever they want, work, earn money, invest, educate and research throughout the EEA area, while at the same time being protected by the world's strongest consumer rights, employee rights and environmental legislation, is not a coincidence. That is the result of 70 years of pragmatic cooperation, political decisions and good neighbourliness. And that's something we never have to take for granted. Today, the EU countries meet at the summit in Romania to complete the course for the next five years. Norway shall continue to contribute to a safe, free and economically strong Europe. We're not doing this because we have to, but because that's the best thing for Norwegian interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e398	The President will propose that the statement on important EU and EEA matters be discussed in a subsequent meeting of the European Parliament. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e414	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that up to five lines of reply are given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e423	Today, we are dealing with a new law on inheritance and death. I would like to thank the Committee for a good cooperation on what has been a large and comprehensive proposition, but despite that, there have not been too many of the major political lines of conflict. I feel that the Committee largely agrees on the main features of the proposal and the bill, but that there have been some individual issues and differing positions. The new bill combines shifting law and inheritance law into a common regulatory framework. Much has happened since the replacement law was passed almost 90 years ago, and since the inheritance law came in 1972. Society, family structure and the way we live have changed. Modern families are more complex and diverse than before, and many have lived in more lives and have more coals of children when they go away. More than ever, they choose to live together instead of marrying. Prosperity has increased, life expectancy has increased, and fortunes at time of death are usually greater than in the past. The new bill is meant to fit into modern society. It involves some linguistic changes and simplification, and it is intended to be user-friendly and transparent for them, too, without a legal background. I want to get into the Centre Party's vision of some things. The centre party believes that it is very important that we have a deadline for the change of agricultural property. Several thousand agricultural estates are now inhabited, some of them have been living there for decades. It is not the duty of a resident to live and operate, and it is a major problem that farm property remains empty and out of service because the replacement cannot be completed, for various reasons. We believe that this is a poor use of resources and has a negative impact on both the community and the community. Therefore, the Central Party is included in the proposal to set a time limit for the transfer of residence in agricultural properties. We are very pleased that the government seems to support this change in the form of a note, but we should have liked to see them also supporting the proposal, so that we had received a majority decision in Stortinget today. Technological developments are fast, and only since the Committee on Heritage presented its position in 2014, society has become significantly more digitised. The central party believes that it must be possible to establish wills digitally for those who want it, but without compromising the possibility of having a will in traditional form. We are now pleased that there is a basis for the digital establishment of wills, and we hope that the government will follow up on the drafting of legislation for this. I want to gain insight into the transaction history of a deceased person. The centre party believes that heirs may need to have access to the bank account of the deceased for a time after death and where it is to be replaced. In principle, we believe that there must be a limit of a maximum of three months back in time for transparency, from which exceptions can be granted, and that transparency can be provided for up to 12 months in exceptional cases. We believe it is important to clarify that the threshold for transparency needs to be high for more than three months, and after feedback in consultation, we believe that this is a responsibility that should not be imposed on banks, but instead we want to propose that these are decisions that must be taken by the courts. It is important to have strict legislation and an active relationship with transparency for more than three months in order to protect the privacy of the deceased and the right to privacy. Cohabitation has gradually become one of the most widespread forms of life, but few cohabitants are aware of how cohabitation is legally regulated, or rather: not legally regulated. Today, cohabitants without common children, but with at least five years of cohabitation, can grant each other inheritance by will, but it is still true that most people do not, and are not aware that they are then without inheritance protection if one should die. The centre party believes that a very long-term consensual union, e.g. 10 years or more, even without a common child, should be able to grant an inheritance right which can instead be limited in a mutual will. Finally, I would like to say that the Central Party supports the government in limiting the division of duties to 15 G. I'm taking up our suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e446	The representative Emilie Enger Mehl has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e451	First, thank you to the case-speaker Emilie Enger Mehl for a good job and a good post. This is a matter in which we are essentially some in much. And then there's some exceptions, and they're going to do the right thing for the Labour Party. It's been six years since the Arvelov selection came with its setting. It's high time we dealt with this matter in the Stortinget now, and it's positive that we get a common law for inheritance and death, which is not least simply more understandable to most of us. We want a more modern inheritance that's adapted to the society we live in now, where it's very common to be sambuar. We want to keep to the government's well-founded proposals for compulsory inheritance, and that it's set at 25 G. We also want to attend the auditions that have come to the fore, in a better way than the government party does. The main purpose of an inheritance law must be to prevent conflict. Rules on inheritance may prevent systematic discrimination based, for example, on: gender or functionality. It also serves the purpose of UN Conventions on Women, Children and Persons with Disabilities. The importance of non-discrimination and conflict prevention is clearly drawn towards the fact that the government's proposal to both retain the compulsory inheritance also sets him to the level that the government originally made was a sound proposal. The government party is too passive in the approach of a modern society, the Labour Party. I think you can do more to strengthen your community rights. It is no longer such that marriage is necessarily the preferred way of life for all. That means we have to do more with it. It was the red-green government that last modernised the inheritance law. We want to move on. For this reason, the Labour Party today has a proposal to strengthen the rights of Samaritans by assimilating them to marriages under the Inheritance Act. We do so without it being at the expense of the interests of the special coal children. The archival selection had a proposal that would give an automatic equality. The Labour Party believes that there must be an active choice that underlies it. Hopefully, when you get married, there's an active choice, you choose to do it, and so our proposal is that we should introduce a legally powerful voluntary partner contract that can be certified by public authority. In this way, we can meet a lot of what the Arvelov selection travels as problem settings, and a lot of what many people have addressed to us in the Labour Party; that Samaritans and marriages should be as equal in the Inheritance Act – but then by choosing it actively, in the same way as you choose to marry. Because there will be some cases where people don't want to have those rights and duties. The Workers' Party also supports the Farmers' Party and the Forestigar Association, which want changes in the Inheritance Act, so that dead bodies are not obliged to refrain from deliberately suspending a shift, and basically refers to the same argument that the Centre Party has. We also support the recordings from Finans-Noreg that a new inheritance law should have regulations that ensure a digital signing possibility. And when it comes to codifying the right of access in the accounts of the deceased back in time, we don't think it should be settled. I would like to address the proposal from the Labour Party and the proposals from the Labour Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e470	The representative, Mrs. Lene Vågslid, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e475	For a long time, Arvelova has been ripe for revision. Law has had a difficult language, and the rules have not always been as easy to understand. Now we have simplified the language and adapted the laws to a new and modern time. A new rule has also been given when it comes to compulsory inheritance. Limit of 1 million. kr per child has been standing still since the 1980s. Now the amount is G-regulated, so that the inheritance of obligations will always follow the development of prices and wealth in society. In assessing what inheritance we should have, we have emphasized to the heir's right to be willed as he or she wishes. On the other hand, we have also given emphasis to our children's right to inheritance and to the special responsibility of caring for their children when they are well placed in the world. We've chosen to set the compulsory inheritance to 15 G and believe this is a good intercession between these two considerations. We have also opened up for the government to introduce the digital signature of the will. As digitisation develops and automated legal services are offered, it is time to be able to digitally sign the will as long as we develop secure systems for this. Another important change we address in the setting is the deadline for changing agricultural property. Too many agricultural properties are scattered around the district because they are not settled in an inheritance. We are looking forward to the government following the goal of the government platform to make it possible to introduce a deadline for changing agricultural properties, so that they can become active. Finally, I would like to point out that the promise will come into force at the earliest in 2021. This means that legacy owners will have plenty of time to adjust to the new rules. I take up the proposal for the Right and the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e492	The representative, Frida Melvær, then mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e497	I also want to start by thanking the rapporteur for a good job. If all the inheritance settlements had gone as smoothly as the treatment of the inheritance law in the committee, we might have been saved too much. It is important to have this review and assessment of creating a new law on inheritance and death. We know that inheritance is about much, but it's also about emotions – it can be conflicts, family tragedy. That's why it's so important that we have an inheritance that's modern, and that's not least linguistically good, so that people understand this. It is important to have appropriate rules for a modern shift settlement. In particular, the law needs to be adapted to the current social and family patterns, which the case-rapporteur was involved in. There are many who have both special children and new children. There are different family patterns that it is important to comply with our laws. We know that many people choose to be cohabiters, we also know that many people choose to marry, and that leads to some commitments. What I must say is surprising is how few people write wills and consensual agreements. I hope that the modern, new inheritance law can give people a little more interest in seeing how important it is to be able to make these contracts and wills before it goes wrong. During the work on this matter, especially for the Progress Party, the rules governing the compulsory inheritance have been important. Even though the sum is 1 million. kr, as the liability share has been, has remained silent for a long time and it made sense with an increase, we believed that the adjustment to 25 G, which would almost amount to less than 2.5 million. kr, was a significant increase in the amount of compulsory inheritance and also a significant reduction in the freedom to test that the individual has. That's why it's been important for us to work with the government parties to see if we could lower that increase, and I'm very happy that we were able to put this in place, and that we've now ended up increasing to 15 G. But I still think it was important that we put in place a G-regulation, which stands more than an amount. I am also sure that this is an amount limit which, in people's eyes, will be seen to be more natural and reasonable than it was. During the examination, the Workers' Party has made a proposal to ask the Government to draw up proposals on how the rights of the cohabitants can be fully equated with the rights of spouses under the Inheritance Act. When we see so few adults, up-and-coming people -- I'll say -- who write the cohabitation contract when they become cohabiters and have children, I wonder how the Workers' Party sees it that having the contract they're signing here will get the conhabitants to write this. Norway is, in fact, at the top of the world in terms of cohabitation protection. We're thinking about the direct rights that the cohabitants already have, and that are also legislated in the Legislature. We know that the Legacy of Legislature today gives cohabitants with common children the opportunity to extend the statutory inheritance into wills, and cohabitants who do not have children, yes, they are quite free to secure each other in wills. Correspondents may also, in will, establish full entitlement to substitution. The rights and interests of the cohabiters, as we see it, are already well protected by the Inheritance Act. The intention is probably good, but I think I'd rather encourage the cohabiters to write both consensual contracts and wills. It was a wise person who once said that this should you do when you're new in a relationship, or when you're good friends, and before things happen. Then you also get the best wills and consecration contracts, I think. There's a couple of things that I'm just going to go quickly into. I am also positive about having deadlines for settlement with agricultural properties. I am glad that it has also entered the Granvolden platform. I think it's important that the government carefully investigate this, that it should also be consulted, before we conclude. This has also been said by both the Right and the Advance Party in the Committee's comments. When it comes to digitisation, I'm glad we've put that wording in place. Because it's important, when we see more and more digitization, that we also do it with the inheritance law.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e514	Inherit and replace are no jokes. This could be trouble in the best families. Where I come from, it is common to thank you for the change when you have had a pleasant meal group. An easterner I know, who had caught up with this, went on a slow click when he used the same phrase after a pleasant evening meal in a large family where one had just left behind one – to say the least – strenuous inheritance settlement. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come It is essential that, as a legislative assembly, we provide good tools for proper inheritance management and fairness and decency. These are values, feelings and relationships between generations and relatives. So it's an important law audit we're now agreeing to go ashore and conclude. It's been a long time since the last revision, and it's good that we're doing this now. The updates don't imply a revolutionary change, as we see it, and we're really happy about that. The rules on the right to inheritance are based largely on the same principles as the current inheritance law. The rules on the right of succession of the genus under the law have been substantially passed on. The government proposes a continuation of the rule in the current law that the spouse inherits a quarter. The succession of spouses when heirs do not have life heirs is also in accordance with the applicable law. The inheritance of children has remained untouched for 1 million. kr since 1985. The Christian People's Party is now supporting the raising and linking of this to the G-amount of popular fear. We think it's a fundamental value in our generation's society that children inherit their parents. The proposition stated that the inheritance was raised to 25 G. We've come to the conclusion that more considerations suggest that it's more correct that it's set at 15 G. The Christian People's Party also supports the provision, in the form of regulations, of rules for the digital signing of wills. This is a natural consequence of the new era. It is necessary to work on requirements and rules that ensure legal certainty for all parties. The Granavolden platform also states that the government will: ‘Examine the possibility of introducing guidelines on the duration of the possession of an agricultural property by the deceased’. I think that's an interesting thing. We are happy that it is followed up in the setting. The problem in many places is that agricultural property becomes a lying wreck until the estate is changed. This is unfortunate. This has to be resolved as soon as possible, but we understand that the matter has to be resolved before you choose the final model. In brackets, I notice that I have been in contact with farmers who have had more than 30 leasing agreements to operate a farm, precisely because passive farming remains in place. I am at least of the sort that believe that arable land belongs to the people, and we have to look at how we can solve it. The Christian People's Party joins in the setting leadership on this. It's e.g. of course to look at the solution that has been found in Sweden for just this. And we're glad that the law in its design is both readable and user-friendly. Finally, I would like to thank for the cooperation since I shadow this committee and came into it only in ours. It's been very interesting, and I thank you for that part. Otherwise, the Christian People's Party will vote in favour of the present proposals of the government parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e543	The Legacy of Inheritance has the fundamental mechanism that it actually regulates the relationship between us as private people, so it has a big impact on how we're going to live our lives. Just because it does, it has to be adapted to the society we have here in Norway. Had we been in a society where people lived in big families, polygamy or bigami, the inheritance law would, of course, look completely different. Therefore, the inheritance law is also norm-forming. When we adopt an inheritance law today, we not only regulate the legal conditions, but we also give a clear message to people about how we think they should live their lives. That's what this is all about. We must not just look at the more legal-technical mechanisms; we must also view this as a norm-making instrument – as a way to give a signal about how we think that family structures in Norway are going to be. It's maybe here this debate we've had, and the attitude we have, cracks something in the ideological understanding of how we see this. There is a clear link to the disagreement as to the rights of cohabiters. The Right Party and the Advance Party – and that may be the starting point for a decision today – believe that marriage should have a specific legal status. They put that in concrete terms in their remarks. On that basis, they do not wish to extend the inheritance rights currently in existence to cohabitants, because marriage is to have a specific legal status. Both the SV and the Workers' Party want to strengthen the rights of their cohabitants precisely because, as has been said earlier today, more and more people are choosing this form. I think here we are facing a completely essential way of understanding people. Norway is becoming more and more diverse. There are more and more ethnic groups and different cultures. People have different sexual preferences, and people choose forms of living and living in different ways. I think it's a strength for society to become more diverse. It gives freedom to choose different forms of life, as described, and that we add up to a system and adapt our laws to this kind of diversity. The approximation of the parties to the government of the fact that marriage is to have a specific legal status gives freedom of choice. That's what surprises me, perhaps especially with the Advancement Party, which is very concerned with individual freedom. What they're adding up to here is that it's the marriage that's going to be normative. It gives a signal that that's what they like best, while the diversity we see around us, they're not so much interested in stimulating. In the Workers' Party and the SV's proposal to create a cohabitation agreement, there is also an invitation at a low threshold, so that people can enter into a different form of life. We're going to make it easy for people to choose exactly this. I believe that as lawmakers, we should respect the fact that people choose to live their lives in different ways. I believe that what we're coming out with today, which is an inheritance law without extended rights for cohabitants, is far from having enough respect for the fact that people in the thousands of homes want to choose in different ways. Facilitating a cohabitation agreement in a simple way through an arrangement in Altin would be inviting people to choose to live their lives just as they would want. We have to lower the threshold. SV also believes that we should do it in such a way that when people have lived together for a few years, they can get a sort of message from the authorities that there is something called a cohabitation agreement, and that it is perhaps time that they entered into such an agreement. We have also included this in one of our proposals in this matter. My party's approach to this is that we're a diverse society, and then we have to invite people to choose to live their lives the way they want to. We have to add that people have the freedom to choose how they live their lives. Unfortunately, today we come out with an inheritance law that gives a clear signal that as lawmakers we appreciate the fact that people choose marriage. I'm very little satisfied with that, and I think it's a bad signal the games on the right hand side give to their voters who want to do things another way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e565	I am pleased that we have now submitted a proposal for a law on inheritance and death grant that has found broad support in Stortinget. A broad consensus in the Storting must be seen as a sign that the proposal is suitable for embracing the needs of the entire population. The social importance of heritage is increasing. The development of wealth has led to the increase in the wealth distributed by inheritance. At the same time, the population's ability to raise loans has increased. Both parts speak for the adoption of an inheritance law that is recognizable, yet linguistically simplified, so that it is suitable for being understood and used by most people. It is essential that the Legacy contributes to a simple transfer of wealth from one generation to the next. In this context, the abolition of the subject-matter liability share is very important. The new law involves, inter alia: that one will be able to willow the cabin, whatever its value, to one of the children, against the other being bought out. This is new, and it's practical and flexible. However, the inheritance is not just about the transfer of wealth. The inheritance creates belongings and communities, but also rejections and contradictions. It is therefore important that the rules of the Inheritance Act are in line with the general sense of the law. If the law so, most settlements can be resolved by the law alone, and that in itself is anti-conflict. The legislative proposal continues the current rules on the right to inheritance and the replacement of spouses and cohabitants, while strengthening the protection of the part of the obligation, as an increase in the minimum level of protection. Finding the right balance between the interests of life heirs and spouses/partners is important. Both the Committee on Arvelov, the Hearing Officers, the Department and the Committee have carefully assessed this issue, and I am pleased about that. The majority of the Committee has recommended strengthening the role of life heirs and making up 15 G, while a minority proposes, in line with the Ministry’s proposal, 25 G. Thorough assessments of a difficult issue across policy lines have given relatively similar conclusions. The freedom of the heirs is balanced against the need for anti-conflict and protective rules. The most important thing for me is that there is a broad consensus that the obligation part protection should be maintained and that it should be regulated after basic amounts, so that special coal children will also be protected in the future. For the government, digitisation is important. However, we did not propose digitisation of wills in the proposition. The majority of the Committee, the Labour Party, the SV and the Centre, are asked about this. Digitalisation is effective and valuable for mass transactions, but a will is not a mass transaction. As the majority of the Committee points out, wills are created only by a small proportion of the population, nor is it a social objective to secure many frequent or reasonable wills. On the other hand, it has been the government's aim to promote an inheritance law that can win broad approval, so that the need for wills will not be great. For those who need to establish wills, it is an advantage that the scheme is safe and requires thought. The economic and family adverse effects of an unlucky will can be significant. Nor do I see any significant cost savings for users in digitisation. What's often the big cost is renting out expensive lawyers to help themselves. The members of the Committee from the Right and the Advance Party are positive in their view of the digital signing of the will, provided it is done in a secure manner. That's a significant assumption. For example, on today’s design requirements. is replaced by a right to sign the will with the bank's code tag, how are we to prevent the signing from being done by anyone who has access to this code piece? Many older people have many who are in and who are helping them, and that is very good, but how are we going to know in retrospect that no one was given wrongful access to the code piece? These are dilemmas that we have to evaluate. But if we find a good solution that also ensures that the witnesses can sign at the same time, we are positive about this proposal. New law on inheritance and transfer of death becomes one of the greatest laws with its 180 paragraphs. There are many questions I could mention here, but I am content to stress the importance of the broad consensus committee discussion here shows. It can hopefully mean that this is a law in line with the legal opinion and the legal expectations of the wider population.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e582	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e587	The Labour Party proposes to equalise married people and sambuarars in Arvelova. As I underlined in my article, we want it to be through an active choice, something a well. The right hand side and the step-by-step part will depreciate the suggestions in the notes that such certification is not necessary and will only complicate the legislation. I'm of the opposite opinion and think our proposal is a kind of an intermediate solution between what the Arvelov selection proposed, and it's not doing anything. So I'm just wondering if the government council thinks it would be unfortunate if Samaritans who chose it, got the same rights and duties in archova, and if so, why?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e592	One of the law professors under whom I studied said that marrying is making an arrangement within the wealth tax, and that's what's a bit of the issue here now – that when you're married, you've done an active action to get married. That's why there's a difference between cohabitants and spouses. The Labour Party proposes to correct this difference in that an active action as a cohabitant should also be carried out. Then it's hard for me to understand why you can't do it through a will form, instead of doing it in a way that we see as a little more heavy: to enter – what to say – an consent that is to be registered by the public. I can't quite see that it should be able to make it easier for the cohabiters to express their last will.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e597	Does this mean that the Council of State is not in principle opposed to the fact that Samaritans and marriages are to be given equal rights in archova, but that for the government party this is more about practical questions?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e602	We have gone quite far in Norway with regard to the rights of cohabitants to inheritance, and actually much longer than most other countries in Europe. But there's still a difference between having a marriage and being a partner. Being a partner can take a lot of different forms, and one can also have a lot more looser connection. It's hard to go into the mind of every cohabiter and figure out how the individual cohabiter would stand himself if you were to fall away. Do they want their money to go to the person you live with, or do you want the money to go to parents or siblings as a result of the law? This becomes slightly different for those who have married. They've taken an active stand on that very question, and that's part of getting married. That's why there's a big difference between cohabitation and marriage in inheritance law.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e607	Now all the parties here have indicated that they support the introduction of a deadline for the replacement of agricultural property, but the government parties will not vote in favour of a proposal to that effect today. They have written a note saying that they hope that the government will investigate the possibility of doing so. At the same time, they have sold out in the media that this is something the Storting is gathering about today, and that it will be a majority decision. The Central Party, the Workers' Party and the SV have made a proposal asking the Government to make a proposal to amend the Inheritance Act so that estate estate estate estates cannot be neglected for a long time, but still leave great freedom to the government to design the proposal. My question is: will the Council of State encourage the government parties in Stortinget to vote in favour of that proposal, B II in the vote, and thus ensure that we have a majority decision on this today?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e614	I share the Committee's concern about the lack of changes in agricultural properties. This is a point in the Granavolden platform that we're going to actively follow up on. But I think it's a little early to say something about what we're going to conclude with, because here's a lot of issues that need to be investigated. There are many changes in agricultural property that take a long time because there is a high level of conflict, too – not necessarily because the heirs want to avoid the obligation to live and operate. There is no doubt that a deadline is going to be anti-conflict. This could lead to that the heirlooms may not get enough time to find good solutions. These are often issues that have to mature over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e619	I share the view of the Council of State that these are issues that need to be thoroughly addressed, but the proposal that we have made today is, of course, putting up for the government the freedom of action to do just that. Then I'd like to ask: Why can't the government parties vote for something promoted by the opposition, which the government parties really agree with?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e626	I think it's going to be wrong for me to stand here and instruct my coworkers in what they're going to say. We have a point in the Granavolden statement that we're going to go into this issue and see if there's anything that needs to be done. But I would like to say that this is a fairly complex problem, which requires one to go into it thoroughly and see what other consequences it may have for one to introduce a separate deadline for such a change to take place.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e631	After all, the Progress Party is a liberating party. They're concerned about protecting the individual's freedom, and very much of what the Progress Party says is about that. At the same time, it appears in this position that the Progress Party and the Right want to protect the legal speciality of marriage. Does the Minister of Justice see that this commitment to marriage's legal speciality contributes to limiting individual freedom?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e639	This freedom in the inheritance law is limited by what we call the inheritance. That's where I see the Storting is quite grouped. What the representative Eide is looking for is probably the distinction between cohabitation and marriage. There I – as I just replied to the representative, Vågslid – drew that distinction up, because a marriage has been concluded, and a number of legal successors of the marriage have also been said to. We see that as the big difference between marriage in the sense of this law and cohabitation, because there have not been the same arrangements. But you have every opportunity to make a disposition as a cohabiter to make sure you have an inheritance that is in line with what you want, that is, a will.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e644	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e651	Many agricultural estates are part of vigilance, and there is much evidence that such vigilance often persists for a long time. This may have considerable consequences, such as the fact that agricultural property is not driven for several years. Agricultural authorities have had problems enforcing agricultural legislation against such property. Since a deadbug is neither regarded as acquired nor owned, according to today's rules, it will also be neither mandatory nor compulsory. This could have major consequences. Agricultural estates in the dyke are often left standing without anyone spending time there, which often leads to lack of maintenance and the land is not kept in good condition. The Ministry’s main argument against introducing a deadline for change was that this would lead to more bureaucracy. We in the Central Party believe that the proposed scheme, where the district court is to notify the agrarian authorities in the municipality, would also give more bureaucracy. A deadline for the execution of the death penalty will also help the heirs to complete the shift. We in the Centerpartiet support Norway's Bondelag and the Norwegian Forest Association, who want a change in the archova where a deadline for the change of agricultural property is set. Deadbuds, who escape bus and bus duty, should not be able to hesitate to use the garden. The consequence is that such agricultural property is rather used as recreational property, and that many people want to keep their property in the edifice to avoid moving there. This could create many unexplained situations. Today, we see several examples of such vigilance that can create many problems for the development of agricultural and forestry heritage. In our neighbouring country Sweden, deathbu has been given a period of four years to sort out the bow, which has proved to work well. The majority in the Committee have listened to the recordings of the Norwegian Forest Association and the Norwegian League of Bonds and today proposes that the government return to the Stortinge with a proposal to introduce a deadline for the change of agricultural property included in the deadbue. When there is such a broad consensus in the hall, I had hoped that there might have been a unanimous decision today, so that we had put this to death. But I actually hope that we can now sort this out – so it'll be good.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e664	After the election of the Arvelov Committee, there was a lot of debate about the rights of the Samaritans, and I'm actually a little surprised that the proposal we are making today is not supported. I think it's a proposal that would have simplified the inheritance law, and it could have been done in both a digital and a good way through information. Solved Horne is wondering how we think we're going to get people to want to sign such joint ventures when there's so few who do it today. I think I have to be completely possible through information -- maybe one can get it as information if one takes out a common loan in a bank. Here it's not about creativity when it's about how we can do it, and we'd like to do it. The Workers' Party, the Center Party and SV modernised the Legacy of Inheritance last. Then a lot of buddies got rights that they didn't have. But there's still a lot of it left, and it's going to be for a partner without a common child, but with kids already. They're quite a lot of them, there's a lot of people who have special kids, and then they won't have a regular partner agreement or a will be good enough. Therefore, we believe that an equal partner and married through an active choice, in the same way that the Minister of Justice described the active choice behind a marriage. I think I would have simplified this and made it better. Then it's only the Labour Party that holds the government's original proposal to set the compulsory inheritance to 25 G. It is worth noting that in 1972, if he had been on G, the inheritance had been over 63 Gs. In 1985, the compulsory inheritance was 38 G, so in a historical perspective, it's putting him to 25 G today to go pretty far down. A large number of people in Storting now want to go all the way down to 15 G. At least I ask the question whether it can challenge or contribute to the opposite of conflict mitigation and non-discrimination. We're clear in minorities in this matter, but we're now at least on the original proposal of the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e675	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e691	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that up to five lines of reply are given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e700	Before speaking time begins, President, I would like to say that we have requested five minutes of speaking time. Has it changed in the presidency?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e705	It's not.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e710	We decided five minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e715	– The Committee appears to be in agreement in 5 minutes. Then we say 5 minutes of speaking time has been decided.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e720	The case concerns children's brides in Norway and how we follow them up. The issue of child brides was seriously put on the agenda in autumn 2015, when over 30 000 asylum seekers arrived in Norway. From January 2015 to February 2016, the Foreign Affairs Directorate mapped 61 asylum seekers under the age of 18 who were married or engaged to a person in Norway – mainly girls. Ten of the girls were under 16 years of age. The government therefore saw a need to establish a cross-border working group between the UDI, the Police Foreign Unit and the Children’s, Youth and Family Directorate to establish guidelines and cooperation practices between them, asylum recipients and local child protection services. Early identification and management procedures are in place among asylum seekers. Bufdir has also developed a digital child protection guide. Child marriages also apply in family immigration cases where UDI becomes aware that residence permits are based on false identity documentation and should therefore not provide a basis for family immigration. Two years ago, the government presented the action plan ‘The right to decide on their own lives — Action plan against negative social control, forced marriage and gender mutilation’. Several measures are relevant to persons who are coercive as children. Unfortunately, it is impossible for Norway to prevent marriages occurring abroad. However, our attitudes are important to communicate, together with other countries. On a trip to Ethiopia some years ago, I was told that those who had recently introduced a ban on child marriage, which politicians were proud to have put in place. They admitted that there would be no consequences if the parents gave the bluff to the new law, but at the same time they thought that it was an important signal, and that it takes time to change attitudes. We must therefore never stop promoting our view of child brides. Finding the brides will largely require that they want to stand up for themselves. Several agencies are responsible for providing assistance and support, as well as helplines, crisis centres and minority advisors. Marriages that are valid abroad will initially be recognised in Norway, but marriages are not recognised if this would obviously be contrary to Norwegian law. The Ministry of Children and Family now investigates the existing law on the recognition of marriages made abroad — including minors — in view of any change in the legislation. Non-residents seeking residence in Norway shall demonstrate their identity or help to clarify it and it is essential that such cases are detected in the context of the identification work. Today's laws may grant residence permits to persons who are subject to child marriage on an independent basis. SV wants the threshold to be lowered in order to obtain a derogation from the documentation requirement. But we know that the world is full of cynical people who always find the dirtholes that exist. We have to make sure that we do not make ourselves so that it is invited to increase the use of child marriages in order to obtain a residence permit and family immigration in Norway. Norwegian authorities have exemption rules in the Foreign Affairs Act and the Regulation. It is possible to grant a temporary residence permit with restrictions. However, SV believes that such permission means that he cannot be settled and that he is not included in the introduction programme. This is due to the fact that SV also writes that women are supposed to attend to this proposal, have notified about the wrong age several years after they have been permanently resident or Norwegian citizenship. So they're done with the introduction program and they're settled. As a general rule, the UDI shall revoke a residence permit if it has been granted on the basis of incorrect identity or wrong grounds. The relationship of the foreigner with Norway, residence time, health conditions and the best interests of the child is then assessed. It is open that, following a concrete assessment, the UDI can place a decisive emphasis on the specific circumstances of a child marriage case. The UDI may also assess whether applicants who have been the subject of child marriages may receive a permanent residence permit under the foreign regulations § 11-4. Red Cross points to the same space of action as the Minister for Justice and Immigration at the time referred to in his letter of reply to the Committee. However, the government parties are asking for a review of the legislation and practices of children’s bridesmaids. They also ask for an assessment of how to ensure that those who have violated the law by marrying a child are prosecuted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e752	Let me first thank the representative Karin Andersen and others from SV for putting this on the agenda. It is an important and necessary matter. Here we're talking about the most vulnerable, we're talking about babysitters, about child marriage, about people who've been forced to marry. We have also heard the stories of abuse, of violence in close relationships – about the most vulnerable. We in the Labour Party believe that the routines and guidelines are not good enough today. That is why it is good that this should be on the agenda. We believe that we need to look at how to detect this at an early stage. It is necessary when someone chooses to exploit people in this way. We also believe that if people have come to Norway through child marriages, like children's brides, who want to break out, they should not be afraid – they should not be afraid that they must continue to live in hell because they are afraid of being thrown out of the country. That's why it's also necessary to go through the routines, so that people can break out of such a marriage and say clearly from behind. We believe that this has to be done in a wise and correct way. Our proposal and the proposal of the Central Party are just about going through guidelines and procedures, about having clear signals from this room and wanting these changes, but doing so with confidence to the foreign authorities – that is the goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e761	Would the representative like to make proposals? That's what the representative wants. The representative of Masud Gharahkhani has then taken up the proposal he referred to in his statement. Although the President can understand the description, she would probably recommend using a different expression in our Parliament than the word 'hell'.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e768	Children who are married away by parents or relatives – child-brothers, as we also call them in this matter – do have the most demanding starting point in life. Their closest relationship is determined by others. In the context of this case, most of them have really little influence over the formal circumstances that identify them as persons entering Norway, whether marriage itself or the information provided for immigration into our country. From this point of view, most – not all of them – have good arguments in response to legislation and authorities, including in cases where questions are raised about the basis of a residence permit. The issues raised by the proposers are the extent to which this group will be addressed with the Norwegian immigration authorities and the auxiliaries, whether we need our own homes, or whether each case should be assessed against current legislation. Our assessment is that today's legislation provides discretionary room for ensuring legal certainty for those who have children's marriage as a starting point. I refer you here to the post of the President-in-Office, Kari Kjønaas Kjos, who gives a good account of many of the details of this. I agree with her assessments. Putting in place their own homes for special groups will be breaking the system of the law, so to speak, and – I think – seems disruptive to the exercise of authority, the discretionary space provided by the law. There are currently established practices in which the considerations that apply to child brides are taken into account, whether at the UDI, the Police Foreign Unit or the Bufdir. In given situations, agencies such as Nav, Child Protection or Health Services also have preparedness for assistance, together with non-governmental organisations such as the Red Cross or the Red Children. Nevertheless, there is reason to stress that the child brides have a particularly difficult life situation because a breakup in marriage will also often be a breakup with family and not rarely challenge the culture of friends and acquaintances. In this context, there is a need to promote the Government's action plan against negative social control, forced marriage and sexual mutilation. Several of the specific measures described therein are also relevant to persons who have been coerced away as children. The question is whether this overall is sufficient. We are talking about a particularly vulnerable group, which should be given special attention. In that respect, this discussion is important. In the Granavolden Platform, government parties agree that legislation and practices related to the fight against polycony and coercion should be reviewed in order to strengthen the fight against this. It is also natural that this work takes into account the situation of the child offenders, with a view to ensuring that these are cared for in a decent manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e792	First, I would like to commend the proposers for putting the spotlight on this important problem. This is a serious matter. Unfortunately, people are not unusual in some parts of the world, and we see more and more of these cases in Norway among families who have come to Norway. For most people, child marriage has meant that their immediate family, parents, or others have married them away for their own sake. It makes it difficult to return to the family and can involve a risk of honor-related violence if you break out of marriage. In this context, I believe that as a society we must have an additional responsibility to care for children who have been exposed to child marriages, and make sure that they dare to stand up. The best way to deal with this in the individual cases has not been given. I share the view of the Council of State that the law should not be made too complicated by detailed regulation of all possible cases of foreign affairs. The best solution through the preparation of internal guidelines and circulars in the UDI could potentially be an equally appropriate follow-up to these cases. The Centre Party, together with the Workers' Party, has therefore proposed a wide-ranging investigation to provide us with more information on the problem, on how the Norwegian community can improve on the prevention and identification of child marriage cases. We have asked for an overall assessment of how people are to be cared for by public authorities, in particular with regard to the follow-up of the foreign authorities. We have asked that the need for legislative or regulatory changes should also be assessed. Based on the input of challenges related to documentation requirements, identity papers and residence bases, these are issues that should be addressed. It is at the heart of the matter that it is difficult to identify the extent of child marriage. Incorrect age is precisely indicated in order to avoid revealing that there is a case of child marriage. However, it is important to highlight the problem. We need to be better at revealing these issues, both those who come to Norway as refugees or asylum seekers, and the cases where it is about picking up a child bride from abroad to marry someone who is already living here. These are cases where we don't have a lot of experience to point to, because the number of known cases is pretty low. We therefore need to ensure that we get better knowledge and the best possible solutions to care for them. I think it's more to learn, and that's why it's right to ask for an investigation on the topic. Reference is made to the fact that there is room for discretion and proportionality in legislation today. It is necessary in a legislation to deal with such complex individual cases. Nevertheless, it is important and right to show politically that they want to be cared for, in the best possible way, and that it should be safe to stand up for people who are exposed to child marriage. These are children in a very vulnerable situation, which cannot be personally loaded for incorrect information provided on their behalf. We therefore believe that they should not be given a residence permit or citizenship until the new application has been processed. Nor should they lose earned living when applying for a residence on an independent basis. It's not supposed to punish itself to warn about this. I also believe that we can bring down the numbers of darkness and ensure that fewer people will experience being coerced or remain in such marriages in Norway. Finally, I would like to address the suggestions behind the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e813	The representative Heidi Greni has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e818	I have been contacted by the Red Cross and met some of the women who have experienced coercion as a child, who have been subjected to a gross criminal act as a child, and who are at risk of losing the last little security they have in their lives, namely, the residence permit in Norway. When I promoted this matter, I was absolutely sure that it would become unanimous. I was absolutely sure that there was not another party in Stortinget that wanted to sit and watch that this should be so. I am therefore reasonably despaired. I am also a little disappointed when describing what these children have been subjected to, namely systematic rapes through childhood and the imposition of false identity, are not even allowed to be referred to as a "hell". That's it, and I'll repeat it. That's it, and we have to stop that. There have been new rules that I hope will work for the new issues – that is good. The issues covered by this proposal concern those that have come here before. There, the Red Cross and the lawyers who these girls have had say that the law does not provide them with the necessary security. Then I have to ask my co-representatives: do you think it is reasonable that someone who has been co-required as a child and is systematically subjected to abuse and social control should lose their rights and their security to be in Norway? Do you really think there should be an opportunity in these matters? I hear the rapporteur says that this can be invited to child marriage. Should we not protect those who have been exposed to this, if they come here and our routines have not been good enough to reveal it when they come? Should we then turn our hands on these people and risk having to be returned? I am quite upset about this matter. These are children who have been subjected to serious crime and who must be responsible for it because they use the rules relating to identity and wrong identity, as if they had been adults. Yes, rules are good that are as general and practical as possible, but there are some extreme situations in the world, and this is one of them. These are extreme situations in which we have to be absolutely sure that the legislation ensures those who have been exposed to it – because this is terrible. I am also amazed that the Workers' Party will not take part in the proposals we are promoting today, because it leaves it up to us to go through and interpret the rules of a government that has representatives here today who say that it will not be done, because this can help to attract someone to join the marriage and come here. In any case, it would not be the fault of the children that they have been exposed to this. It is also important to remember that few of those who have been exposed to this have dared to break out. I guess for the time being, the Red Cross has registered four. But the numbers of darkness are enough there, sail if it's not a large number. These are the girls I've met, and they've been waiting for years before they've dared to break out. They've said from there, and then they've risked everything: family represals, past spouses and government, loss of rights. And not one of the men who's been involved in this, both the marriages and the rapes, as I call it -- because of course it's been in these marriages -- has been charged. It says a little about the shortcomings in the way we manage to deal with these issues, so that you could both stop the child marriages and help those who have been exposed to this serious crime. To prove identity many years after someone else has falsified your identity, and when at that time you were a child and were in another country -- I can't imagine how anyone can think it's possible. I would like to ask you one more time: please vote in favour of the proposals from SV, which I am referring to here, in this matter, because they are absolutely vital.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e839	The representative, Karin Andersen, has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e844	In Norway, marriage to persons under 16 years of age is a criminal offence. In recent years, there have been a number of cases of so-called child brides because of immigration from, and greater interaction with, countries and cultures where this is more common and partly accepted. We are pleased that the Granavolden platform is clearly aware of the need to combat coercion and polycony. It is natural and right that legislation and practices relating to marriage with minors are similarly highlighted and that consideration for the weakest party is well taken care of. We give tribute to the proposers who put the matter on the Stortinge agenda. It may then seem like a paradox that we are equally fully voting against the proposal for a representative, but in it the clear expectation is that the government will follow up this problem complex in a very satisfactory way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e851	The representative’s proposal concerns children’s marriage in family immigration cases where, after a residence permit has been granted, the alienation authorities become familiar with circumstances that suggest that marriage should never have been recognised or provided a basis for family reunification. The UDI has informed that they are familiar with four such cases in 2018. This is a low number, but they can't ignore that there are dark numbers here. Child marriage is not unknown, but it came seriously on the agenda after the asylum crisis in 2015. That year, UDI 61 asylum seekers under 18 years of age were married or engaged to a person in Norway. So most of these were underage girls. Therefore, the government took the initiative to put in place guidelines and cooperation procedures to identify and manage early children’s rights among asylum seekers, so that these issues are now well managed. In the cases in question, i.e. persons exposed to child marriages coming to Norway through family immigration, there is a question of whether existing legislation is sufficient, or whether more detailed rules are needed. On a general basis, I think it is unfortunate to make specific provisions for any case or to impose specific requirements for one particular group. Today’s legislation provides for the exercise of discretion by the authorities so that the specific concerns of child marriage cases can be assessed and emphasised in concrete terms. The problem of documenting identity is highlighted as a specific challenge for those who have been subject to child marriage. The Foreign Affairs Act is clear that all applicants for a stay in Norway will prove their identity or help to identify it when possible. It is important for Norwegian authorities to know who is receiving a residence permit here. A generally lower threshold for identity assessment in child marriage issues is not to be recommended, it will make the legislation fragmented, unbridled and not user-friendly. In addition, it may increase the risk of abuse. In addition, the circumstances and background of these applicants will vary and the individual’s ability to be able to be sure of their own identity will vary. In assessing whether sufficient evidence of identity can be provided, the foreign authorities will inter alia: could take into account the situation in which the applicant is located. The legislation in force also provides that persons who have been the subject of a child marriage may be granted a residence permit on an independent basis. They may receive asylum or stay on the basis of strong human considerations or specific links with Norway. In order to ensure that any need for protection is assessed, I would ask the UDI to inform them that they can apply for asylum if the UDI believes that the conditions for protection can be met. The rules also provide that a residence permit need not necessarily be revoked, so that acquired residence falls away, even if incorrect evidence of identity has been provided. The non-resident authorities shall always consider whether recall would be a proportionate measure. This will include the assessment of: whether withdrawal would be reasonably linked to the foreigner’s relationship with Norway, residence time, health conditions — and, where appropriate, the best interests of the child. In other words, it is opening up to give decisive consideration to the particular circumstances of a child marriage case. I am confident that the foreign administration will deal with such matters as the representative proposal highlights, in the best possible way and in line with the current legislation. However, I will follow the practice in the future and will not be foreign to look into the legislation with a view to preventing the rules from being undermined by child exploitation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e868	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e873	The Labour Party, together with the Centre Party, has proposed that we identify the scope of child marriage. This concerns how to prevent and to review legislation and procedures in the Foreign Affairs Act in order to safeguard this vulnerable group, but then through trust cooperation with the foreign authorities. This says the government's parties don't. Government parties refer to the Granavolden platform, that they will now also have a review of procedures and regulations in the Foreign Affairs Act with regard to children’s brides. Then I have to ask the Council of State: When will he deliver on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e878	Now the Granavolden platform is from January, but we're going along in this area now. I have just explained to the Storting that the foreign authorities have quite ample discretion to take into account the children concerned, and that they have the opportunity to take into account the situation in which they stand – find practical solutions that I think are good enough to ensure the safety of the child brides. I think that before we conclude that a comprehensive investigation needs to be carried out, we need to look at how the practice is going to be in such cases, and then we need to keep up with the practice and see if it is necessary to make changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e883	As the Council of State said in the statement, the residence permit must not be revoked even if the residence permit proves to be incorrect. This applies to special cases where there are children who have been given the wrong date of birth by others, and who are in a very, very demanding situation. Has the Council of State given, or will the Council of State give, any clear signal to the foreign authorities that, in cases of child marriage, the residence permit shall not be revoked when they are finally alerting?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e890	I don't think it's appropriate to give an instruction to the aliens' authorities on exactly this. I have to direct the foreign authorities through general instructions, because if it is that you would almost automatically get a residence permit in Norway if you come to the country as a child bride, it could actually increase the risk of more child brides coming to Norway. As we have a discretionary room within today’s legislation, the foreign authorities can assess, based on the child’s situation, whether there is a basis for withdrawal or whether there is a basis for granting a new residence permit. I trust that the foreign authorities will manage this legislation in a reasonable way for the best of the child.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e896	What this matter is about is someone who has been a child, who has been subjected to a criminal act, who has experienced terrible things, and who is trying to get out of the coercion situation and get back his real identity. Does the Council of State think that children in other countries are going to speculate on this, sit and participate in forced marriages at an early age, in order to come to Norway and get a residence permit? The state councils are talking about it as if it could happen. What we have proposed is to take care of the child – that is, our obligations under the Children's Convention and our obligations to take into account the victim of crime. Being able to stop this at the border is okay, but doesn't the Council of State see that those who are in this situation and have been for a long time need to get the security it means not to risk getting recalled?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e903	I think the representative Andersen has misunderstood what I'm saying. I do not think that children are going to want to marry the elderly, but I am deeply concerned that children may be forced to marry the elderly – that this will be an entrance to getting a residence permit for more people. It's a social development that we don't have to be able to get into. Therefore, I believe that today's legislation, which provides for discretionary access for the foreign authorities to take decisions that are best for the child, is a good enough access for the foreign authorities to assess specifically each individual case: Is it necessary for this child to be granted a residence permit? Is it e.g. the need to withdraw the residence permit already granted? This, I think, is a good opportunity for the alienation authorities to do well for the child and to create the security necessary for children to say so.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e908	What happens here is that the Minister of Justice is responsible for the legislation and that the administration deals with these matters so that no one can enter Norway on such a basis. This case is about the four we've identified, which have been here for many years, and where there might be some darkness. Then the Council of State is obviously pleased to see how practice is going to be. If the practice is that the consequences for some of those who have been subjected to serious crime as children have been raped for years, forced to move to Norway and have been here for many years, it will be that you do not receive a residence permit — what does the Council of State do? And is that reasonable?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e913	I'm probably not going to start by making assessments on a single matter, like you're inviting to now, but what I've said is that there's a lot of room for the foreign agencies to focus on just the types of things that you've now addressed in your question. Then I also want to underline – because it was also mentioned in your post – the question of whether the men who marry these young girls, that's pretty much what it's about, are being prosecuted. In that case, I would just like to refer to the Riksadvokat's Roundtable of Objectives and Priorities, which states that criminal offences against children – dealing with ‘violence against children and abuse in close relations’ and ‘serious sexual offences’ – are a priority area. Nor is it that no one has been charged. A few days ago, we were able to read in the Nettavisen that a 25-year-old man had been accused of having just married someone who is a minor. Then it is also that he was charged with sexual offences against a person under 14 years of age.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e920	The President will stress to the Council of State that all speeches are to be made through the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e925	I have not asked the Council of State to decide on a single matter. I ask the Council of State to decide what is reasonable in these matters, for this is the reality of what has happened to these girls who were children and who are now adult women. That's the principle. I find that the Council of State, the government and the majority here think it is a risk worth taking that the legislation is such that they risk losing their residence permit. Then I can guarantee that those who are in such a situation will, unfortunately, think again before they dare to break out. So one last question: how does the Council of State think that someone like this, for example, has the coercion as a 12-year-old and taken to Norway, after seven to eight years here, been able to prove its original identity?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e932	Finally, it is within the discretionary space of the foreign authorities to decide whether to obtain a residence permit even if the identity has not been identified, because there are differences in how easy it is to obtain such an identity. However, I think it would be a little scary to have a rule that says that anyone should be able to obtain a residence permit, regardless of whether the identity appears or not in such a case. Then I think we better make sure that these are different cases, that the foreign authorities in each case must make an active assessment of whether it is at all possible for the individual who has been exposed to this, to find their true and original identity.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e937	So the chord change is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e944	I had probably not imagined in my wildest imagination that the majority in this room should not think that there was a very extreme situation for these women – and the girls – to have been exposed when they were children, and that there is a need for some very clear rules that say that this should be treated in a special way. When this is left to the general discretion — ‘proportionality’, ‘may be assessed’, ‘will be able’, ‘take into account’, ‘may be allowed to stay’ — it is very thin threads to hang it in when you are in an extreme situation. I've had several meetings about this with the Red Cross, which says these girls are so scared that they don't dare. Well, that's the code here that's blocking it. If you think that SV's formulations here might not be perfect – I could accept it – then we could discuss it, but it is not a majority in this room now that will give a loud and clear message to these girls who live in forced marriages where they have been since they were children, that they are safe and that they can tell the authorities so they can be protected. In fact, if we are opposed to forced marriage, we must protect those who have been subjected to forced marriage. That's the first bid. I've been working with crisis centers since the late 1970s, and the only thing that counts when you're going to have people out of that kind of situation is that you can guarantee security. This is serious, and I'm very, very sorry – I have to admit it – you probably see that too. I've met these girls and I know how scared they are. I simply cannot understand why one believes that there should not be rules that are clear enough to give them that security and that, among other things, they should not. state clearly that in these cases, which are so extreme, the requirement to provide the necessary identification should be looked at more lightly. One of the people I met was 14 when she was coerced, and she has been in Norway for 10 years. How in the world is she going to be able to get identity papers for herself, when she was taken out of the country as a little girl? It's completely impossible to imagine how it's going to happen. I record that the majority and the government clearly believe that in some of these situations it is right that they lose their permits. There's an unscrupulous disagreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e953	I do not know whether the representative Karin Andersen misunderstands or refuses to listen to what is being said. This takes the government parties in the greatest seriousness. We have repeatedly been informed of the large space of action that belongs to those who are working on this. We have not received any cases that tell us that a child has been sent out, but nevertheless the four government parties say that a review should be taken to make sure that this is good. Then it's not that we don't mean anything or we don't want to do anything to get a review of it and look at the legislation to make any changes. It's about grabbing. It's not about what decisions we make today, it's about actually looking at the whole thing. Karin Andersen has to try to take on that we actually mean the same thing, but uses a little bit of different words on how we express what we want to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e960	The representative Karin Andersen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e966	No, I don't get it wrong on purpose. I hear that the government parties do not want to change the legislation, so that we are sure that those who have been coerced as children, who have affixed the wrong identity and have been subjected to crime by being taken to Norway, will be absolutely sure that they do not lose their residence permit when they report the abuses. There has been no clear answer to that – one has to assess, look at etc. Yes, but we don't know anything about the result. It could be dramatic for them. I also hear all the other undertones in it, and I know that the government's policy is to tighten up as much as possible, so that you can send out as much as possible. So I'm not sure about this, because the debate here has not shown that there is a basis for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e973	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e989	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that up to five lines of response be given to posts by members of the Government. In addition, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e1000	The authorities of the State are required to facilitate the preservation and development of their language, culture and social life by the Sami People's Group, as stated in the Constitution, Section 108. The provision, together with the obligations we have for the implementation of human rights conventions, including ILO Convention No. 169 forms the basis for the legislative proposal on the legalisation of consultation obligations with the Sameting and the procedures for doing so. Sames are a minority in Norway and, therefore, there is a great responsibility on the majority population and the public to facilitate compliance with the provisions of the Constitution. The legislative proposal for consideration stems from the so-called ‘Colegislative Committee 2’s investigation NOU 2007: 13, the new joint court, which was delivered in December 2007. The committee proposed, inter alia: a new law of procedure and consultation for measures which may have an effect on the natural basis of traditional Sami areas in Norway. It is gratifying that there is support for the fundamental assessments of the basis of international law for the obligation to consult. A large majority of the Committee, all parties other than the Centre, also acknowledges that the State has a responsibility to ensure that municipal and county authorities have mechanisms to ensure that the consultation of the Sami interests is carried out. The majority therefore also support the statutory obligation of municipalities and county councils to consult representatives of Sami interests. However, there is an overall committee which argues that the proposal in Sections 4 to 4 must be returned to the government and that a general consultation of the proposal is carried out. In the opinion of the Committee, there is too much uncertainty as to what is the basis for triggering the obligation to consult, how to conduct consultations, limitations of duty, etc. I see it as an advantage if the notified supervisor is ready before the proposal is sent to the hearing, as it may be a substantial contribution to clarifying the uncertainty that exists today. A majority of the committee will send the entire legislative chapter back to the government for consultation. I would therefore like to argue in the following arguments for the view of the Workers' Party and assume that the respective parties argue for their views. The proposition refers to the fact that the current procedures for consultations between State authorities and the Sameting were established at kgl.res. of 1 July 2005. The procedures are based on the consultation agreement signed by the then municipal and regional ministers Erna Solberg and the joint president on 11 May 2005. The procedures apply only directly to consultations with the Sameting, but the principles of the procedures are also applied where there is an obligation under international law to consult other Sami interests. The Government's proposal is a codification of these guidelines. Although the proposal could have been sent to general consultation, it is not new in what is proposed by law, compared to practice in the last 14 years. Nor is it significant for anyone other than the Sameting and the Government, both of whom agree on the proposal following the conduct of consultations. The law of this was also included as part of the Jeløya platform. Therefore, although it is not on the current government platform, it is alarming that the government, which has now become a majority government, does not have support in its own parliamentary basis in this Chamber for the proposal they have promoted for the Stortinget. It is obvious to suggest that the majority does not trust the assessments made by the government. In line with constitutional practice, the Government has not made proposals to legislate on the obligation of the Storting to consult Sami interests. The Workers' Party considers that, in certain cases, there may be an obligation, or natural, to consult the Sami interests in relation to matters relating to Sami issues. We therefore propose that provision be made for this in the Storting Rules of Procedure. Transparency and transparency are important parts of democracy. It allows the authorities to be checked. That's why we also have public law. It is possible to understand that, in the context of consultations on demanding matters, it may be necessary to exempt documents from the public. However, let me stress that I believe that the need for more publicity should be based also on consultations, and that transparency should be practised as far as possible. For example, exposed disclosure may be an instrument of more transparency than today. I bring this up with me the proposals of the Workers' Party are part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e1023	The representative Eirik Sivertsen has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e1028	From a historical perspective, there has been a very positive development in the relationship between the Norwegian majority population and the Sami minority in our country. The path from the past research policy to the fact that very many today are proud of what the Sami represents in our society is based on a recognition that the Norwegian state is based on two people. Here we have lived side by side longer than you can know for sure. Our common history book has many chapters, and I'd like to admit that not all of them are equally proud of. Good coexistence is about recognition, respect and ability to listen to each other. The proposed rules in the consultation law that we are discussing today are just about this. The law requires consultation, a positive conversation – without any agreement being assumed. Hearing is an important prerequisite for understanding and accepting, even if you don't necessarily get what you want. It is simple human knowledge and some of the core elements of the good consultation system will have to be involved. The minority shall also be released and listened to before decisions are taken. Should this work well, however, it also demands that the other party, the majority, feel safe and listen to. Unfortunately – and perhaps a little surprising – we did not get the impression that this was the case during the hearings with regard to the proposal on consultation obligations for counties and municipalities. From a very large number of instances, considerable uncertainty was expressed as to what this legislative proposal actually involves, and sometimes considerable irritation as to not being heard. The hearings on the matter are probably ten years back in time. Much has happened in these years, and many of those who were involved at that time are not in the same post today. At the same time, the law, as it exists, is quite open and general. The intention of the government is to develop a complementary guide, which will provide the necessary guidelines for practical implementation of the consultations. When the government parties, with the support of the Central Party, vote today to send the law back to the government with a request for a new hearing, together with the announced supervisor, it is because we believe it is important and necessary to provide the consultation system for the counties and municipalities with the best possible start. No one shall be able to say afterwards that they did not know the contents. No one shall be able to claim not to be heard and get a system trodden down above his head. And let it be clear: the right wishes for a consultation arrangement. We recognise the obligations we have under the ILO Convention and that the government is obliged through it to also establish mechanisms for consultations involving counties and municipalities. The consultation mechanism has been practised by the State since Erna Solberg, as Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, introduced this under the Bondevik II Government. The size of the population will assess this more closely when the law returns to new treatment. Then we will also know the framework within which counties and municipalities will work, described in law and guidance, and we will have a good basis for a real debate on how to implement the consultation system. The government deserves recognition for actually promoting this case. There is no distrust from the government parties towards the government in this, as we believe that after the hearings we want to send the matter back. We support virtually all the assessments made by the government as a basis for this matter. We believe that the consultation system for counties and municipalities is an important and correct approach. We look forward to getting the matter back to this room, but then in a situation where everyone should be able to say they heard, so that we can get a good start on this. I note that the Labour Party and the Swedish Labour Party want a slightly different approach to what is essentially the same policy in this regard, namely to adopt the law, but to carry out a consultation before its entry into force. In practice, it basically means the same, in the sense that the government implements its consultation system and has a practice for it. On the part of the government parties, we have come to the conclusion that it is most neat – when it is like that – to send the matter back, so that we can freely go into this when the matter comes back to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e1049	The Committee held a hearing on amendments to the Law on Social Security in October 2018. All the hearings, with the exception of the Sameetings, pointed out that the Samerettscommittee 2 was at the hearing 10 years ago and that much has happened during the years that have passed, as well as several changes to the proposal that was at the hearing last time. When the hearing bodies are so co-ordinated, as well as many questions were asked about what the legislative changes will mean in practice, it has been important for the Progress Party to take an extra round on this. Municipalities and county councils are not currently subject to the consultation obligation, and if you are to legislate, there will be a new task. During the hearings there was considerable uncertainty as to what the provisions actually entailed for municipalities and county municipalities. The entire legislative proposal submitted should therefore be sent back to the Ministry for a new consultation, so that all those affected by the changes are given the opportunity to comment. Taking into account the uncertainty that also emerged around the supervisor who has been notified in the proposal, this should also be consulted at the same time. I would like to say to the representative, Mr Sivertsen, that I have full confidence in the Council of State. It's not about that, but it's about hearings on the Stortinget actually having a meaning – it's not for fun. When you're so co-co-ordinated in the hearing, we're going to listen to it. The Progress Party does so in this case. The Progress Party therefore supports the majority, who believe that there is a need for further clarification in terms of the obligation to consult, and I therefore choose not to debate the content of the law itself at this stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e1062	The merger has the primary responsibility for developing Sami languages, culture and industries on their own basis. It requires good dialogue between accumulation, government and aggregation, and mechanisms to ensure real impact and influence. There is currently a consultation arrangement in kgl. Resolution. In this way, the proposal in the proposal dealing with the State consultation obligation is merely a codification of current practice. Of course, today's practice will continue in the same way, even if this case is now sent back to the government. The Committee consulted on the matter and all the hearing bodies, with the exception of the Sameting, considered it to be a major weakness that this legislative proposal had not been at the forefront of the general consultation. There have also been many new points in the case since the suspension of the COC 2 was at the hearing 10 years ago. It would be positive for the case if the proposal were to be sent to a general consultation. We believe it would be useful to involve all interested parties in the hearing before the matter is dealt with in Stortinget. The matters to be addressed by the consultation obligation, who shall be consulted, are not at all settled in the proposal. It is particularly demanding whether the concession obligation is extended to municipalities and counties. The explanation of the economic and administrative implications of this is one of the factors that needs to be highlighted much more closely. The proposition refers in several places to clarifications to be included in the Regulation and in the Guide, but no guidance has been given as to what the notified guide should contain. We believe it is necessary for several of these clarifications to be available before dealing with this proposition. This concerns both administrative, economic and practical aspects, and the supervisor must be consulted at the same time as the legislative proposal. The centre party wants a comprehensive approach to the consultation obligation and therefore considers it most appropriate to ask the government to forward the proposal to a wide-ranging consultation. In the Committee's proposal for a decision, we ask that the bill be returned to the government and that the government send the bill to general consultation before the matter is brought before the Stortinge for further consideration. The centre party has therefore chosen not to address the individual issues in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e1073	SV was very positive when this law came, because we have been strong supporters of formalising the consultation arrangements that have been developed in the state, and also providing consultation arrangements with the local authority sector. This case is one of those cases where the merger and government through discussions and consultations have actually agreed on something; in this case the government and the merger agreed. It hasn't happened in so many things, as far as I know. And then I understand the disappointment in Sametinget when the matter is now sent back in full. I believe that it is not right, as the representative Thommess says, that in practice it is the same SV as the Workers' Party does, as the government parties do. There's a big and fundamental difference. We are voting that it should now be a law with consultation obligations for the state. I'm also a little worried if what the majority is saying is actually codified, that is, there's not a big change from that state today to what's in this law. Well, if it's going to be a hearing, it's got to mean you've also played it. I'll warn you against that. The reason why SV and the Workers' Party have considered that the part relating to the local government, municipalities and county municipalities should be sent to the hearing was essentially that the supervisor who was supposed to be on the ground and show how this was to be done in practice was not available. Therefore, it was impossible for us as legislators to answer the questions addressed to us by the municipalities – and there were good questions about how this should be done. So I understand that the local government has been questioning about it. This is why we believe that there is a need for a consultation round, and that it is done at the same time as the guide is presented, so that you can see how you have thought and make concrete representations about the concrete forms of interaction that you put forward. The Municipal and Management Committee met with the Sametinget on Tuesday – I think it was – and then they again underlined that having a right to consultation and conducting consultations is not necessarily about agreeing. It's probably someone who's thought of it when they've been very skeptical about this. But it's not about that. It is about being able to shed light on the politically important aspects of issues that are also addressed in local administration. What I think we have to remember then is that some of these environments are very small, very vulnerable, and that means that they are kind of drowning in indigenous politics, that some of the smallest environments are disappearing. And I can see that what we're after now is giving them some tools where both parties can have a system so that they don't disappear and these between all the chairs in the slightly large bureaucracy around in all the municipalities. So I'm very surprised and sorry for that – especially after the post that the representative Olemic Thommess now had, which suggests that we really agree with the Workers' Party and SV that the part that concerns the state could be well adopted now. And then we should do it, because then we have the symbol that we've passed a law that we've started work. Now there's a lot of people who feel that this is going to be put completely into play, and that there's a few steps back. I see who's drawn on the list of speakers after me, and I expect that then maybe the cats will come out of the bag, which will show that here's the strong contradictions in the government, and that's what has led to this bypass to a law we need.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e1090	The State has a duty of international law to consult with one another on matters that could directly affect the Sami interests. The obligation is currently implemented in Norwegian law through the 2005 consultation procedures between State authorities and Sametinget. The consultation mechanism shall ensure that the pooling and pooling are allowed to participate in decision-making processes on matters that may affect them. As we point out in the proposal, good consultation procedures provide authorities with a better basis for decision-making and can ensure a smoother and faster implementation of measures. The legal framework proposed for consultations is essentially a codification, clarification and making available of existing arrangements with regard to State authorities. The Government proposes to legislate the main principles of consultation. The Ministry of Local Affairs and Modernisation will then lay down detailed rules on the implementation of the consultation obligation at State level. As regards the obligation to consult municipalities and county councils, it is already subject to international law, and it is an assessment that the majority of the committee also supports. At municipal and county level, the Ministry, in consultation with KS, Sametinget and NRL, is in the process of designing a supervisor to outline flexible solutions for the implementation of the consultation obligation. It is important that municipalities and county municipalities are involved in the work of the supervisor in order to ensure that it becomes as useful as possible. The ministry has therefore already been in Finnmark and met several municipalities and Finnmark County Municipality to get their input to the supervisor. The Ministry has also planned meetings with municipalities and counties in Troms, Nordland and Trøndelag. In this way, the supervisor will be based on input from selected municipalities and county councils before being sent out to the hearing. I am pleased that the majority of the committee in its position supports the government's proposal to legislate the system of consultations for the state in a separate chapter of the Law on Civil Society. I think that's important and correct. The government’s proposal is the result of a comprehensive process initiated by the 2007 Joint Court Committee’s investigation. The committee's proposal was open to wide public consultation in 2008 and 2009, and the government's legislative proposals are based on the proposals of the Joint Court Committee, although it is less extensive. It is now more than ten years since the proposal of the Committee on Civil Liberties was put forward and was out for consultation. I have noted that the majority of the committee believes that the government's legislative proposal should be re-consulted, firstly because it has been so long since the matter was last at the hearing. I have also noted that the majority points out that it is a clear advantage that the draft guidance for the consultation of municipalities and county councils with Sami interests is consulted at the same time as the bill is rehearsed. The Ministry of Local Affairs and Modernisation is in the process of following up the matter, in line with the Committee's comments. In the first place, we are now working on a consultation draft for the supervisor. As soon as this is clear, we will send it to the hearing, at the same time as sending the bill to public consultation, as proposed by the Committee. We aim to send both the proposal and the draft guide to the hearing in autumn 2019.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e1111	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e1116	In the Jeløya platform it was stated that the government would legitimise the right to consultations. Those formulations have been removed from the Granavolden platform. Has the government changed its policy on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e1122	No, the government doesn't. We sent the bill to Stortinget. It's not withdrawn. The government still believes that this should be legalised, and therefore we were ready for the matter to be dealt with by Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e1127	Thank you for that answer. I am also very pleased that the Council of State is now signaling that it has taken the signal that it is an advantage that the supervisor is made known before the provision for a statutory obligation for municipalities and county councils to have consultations is sent out again at the hearing. However, the Council of State was also concerned that regulations should be drawn up, if I understood this correctly, also for local authorities, i.e. municipalities and county councils. Will they also be known at the same time? For they will then be complementary and, where appropriate, also clear on its limitations.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e1134	We have followed the same procedure as usual. It is not common to make regulations and guides until you have a law in place. So that was in and of itself the order we were thinking. Now that you want the supervisor – and I have a lot of understanding about it – it's neat to send instructions and counsellors at the same time as we send a bill, and that's what we're working on.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e1139	One of the things that has made this treatment difficult is that that supervisor doesn't exist. It is well possible that there is a procedure, that you tend to do it that way, but this is an area that is a little new, and as it is known that there are quite major concerns around – if I can say so – in the municipal sector. Didn't the government make any assessments that it could help to make the case easier to deal with, both the hearings we had here, and also politically, if it had been known when we dealt with the matter? Shouldn't the supervisor have been drawn up together with the legal text when there's a whole new area?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e1146	Firstly, it's a new legislative area, but it's not a new commitment. It's a commitment municipalities and counties already have under international law. So that's what we're going to codify. So we've followed the investigation manual, we've followed the procedure that's been common when we make laws, that is, that the laws are first passed. After that, when you see how the laws are going to be, you make regulations and guides. So the starting point was to deal with this case the same way as other cases. It is also the case that many municipalities and counties have good practice for this and do so. I also want to stress that we have had a lot of dialogue, at least attempts at dialogue, with KS about this – through 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016. Now we get to make this guide, and then I hope it helps solve the misunderstandings or the turmoil that might be, so that we can practice this in a simple, flexible way. This should not delay the processes, it should not distort the processes. It is only for the good of everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e1155	Then the cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e1162	It should not be surprising that in the primary policy of the Progress Party, the common policy is quite different from that of the majority in this Chamber. It's because co-policy is a political project that discriminates against people on the basis of blood, on the basis of DNA. There is a discrimination which in no way represents the real situation in the north. Not everyone seems to get involved, but it thus contributes to creating conflicts, unnecessary heavy processes, bureaucracy and less democracy. That's why many of us had strong counter-representations when the government promoted this proposition for Stortinget. But I now register – and I think that is good and good – that the Stortinget sends the proposition back to the government, precisely in order to have the general hearing, which should have been a matter of course. It seems a little strange that the Ministry of Local Affairs and Modernisation, with its connection to Norwegian municipalities, did not choose to send this matter out at regular consultations. Now it's going to happen. That's good. But I do, in fact, expect that this matter, this proposition, will never be promoted again for the Storting, and it is simply because I am dealing with the current government statement. I'm dealing with what's written, or I'm dealing with what's written. rather not, in the Granavolden platform, as opposed to the Jeløya platform. There is no indication that this is something that the government is going to promote for the Stortinget. So my expectation is that this matter is being returned today, and that the Storting will not get the proposition back as long as this government sits. Furthermore, I wish that the work on common policies concentrated more on creating a basis for the community that is in the north with people with different backgrounds. There is no clear distinction between partners and women and other Nordics. They're basically the same people, with the same culture and with the same daily life. That is why it is also quite unreasonable, the common policy practised by the Stortinget today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e1171	The current procedure for consultations between State authorities and the Sameting was established in 2005. When the Ministry considers that the obligations of the State to consult pursuant to Article 6 of the ILO Convention will not apply directly to municipalities and counties in Norway, a solution should be considered in cooperation with those most affected, namely municipalities and counties. The government's proposal to legislate on a provision on municipalities and county councils' obligation to consult representatives of the relevant Sami interests leads to politicians and the administration of municipalities having to consult the merger system on matters relating to the political treatment of the municipality, affecting the Sami interests, and on what the local authorities had to deal with so-called Sami matters. It shall be consulted before proceedings can take place in the municipality. The representative Thommess mentioned from the pulpit that we are based on two people, and that we have obligations to care for the Sami interests. I must, with respect to reporting, say that it is wrong. In the north, where this obligation to consult will be the most important, we are based on three people: the Norwegian, the Sami, and not least the female people. To highlight a people to persevere is, unfortunately, a negative discrimination against the last group of people – the female. It is noted in the proposal that good consultation procedures will ensure a smoother and faster implementation of the measures in question. We, who live and live in the areas that will be affected, and note how the Sameting use their right of objection today to delay and postpone important projects of social benefit, fear that a consultation obligation for municipalities and county councils will end up as a significant expense post for municipalities and a brake block for value creation and economic development in areas with an already weak nutrient base. Today’s right of objection is not a direct veto, but it is rightly claimed by many that it is widely perceived as a veto right. Here I believe the government has gone too fast and not listened to those who are most affected, namely municipalities and county municipalities. That is why I am very pleased that a large majority on Stortinget will now send the whole matter back to the government, ordering that the matter be brought to the hearing before the matter is brought before Stortinget for further consideration. Then we can make new assessments about a consultation obligation is the right way to go, and hopefully it is not promoted again in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e1182	I share the opinion of the State Council of Malta that clarifying how far and how a consultation obligation for municipalities and county municipalities should be implemented in practice could help to remove both the misunderstandings and thus the uncertainty, which is the main impression of the hearing. When I heard the representatives of Kjønaas Kjos and Thommessen from the pulpit, they also talked about the overall feedback that came to the hearing, but that was only the provision on how we legislate this for municipalities and county municipalities. No one problemed the routines and procedures that are now being proposed for the relationship between the government and the whole thing. There is no factual reason to postpone this case. On the contrary, it is only a codification of current practice, proposed by the current Prime Minister, Erna Solberg, back in 2005, and practiced for 14 years afterwards, and for which there has been no dispute. This is just an immediate manoeuvre. I have stated that the Workers' Party agrees that there is a great deal of uncertainty and misunderstanding in terms of regulations for municipalities and county councils. Now let's clean that up. It turns out that my indications that there might be a distrust of the government's judgements are demonstrably true. I mean, the government parties have to figure out what they mean. The Council of State says this is government policy. I hear representatives from the second largest government party say that this is not politics. What does the majority actually mean? Should the obligation to consult be statutory? Should municipalities and county councils have such an obligation, or should you not have it? I would like to distance myself from the understanding of Amundsen. He showed a fundamental lack of understanding of the Basic Law provisions on the rights of the Sami people and the functioning and obligations of international conventions in Norway. Democracy is more than a majority rule. In democracy, we must take account of the fact that the majority must pay particular attention to those who are in a minority and who, for various reasons, are being pressured. That's what this is all about. The representative Strifeldt's attempt to set up a contradiction between the Sami people and women I also distance myself from. We have one indigenous people in this country, and we have five national minorities. Everyone is a minority and deserves special attention so that everyone can develop their language and culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e1197	The entries from the last two representatives of the Progress Party show that the case is now fully in play. It should comment and put in place both the Council of State and other representatives of the government parties, so that we know what we have to deal with. If the government parties had now voted in favour of the proposal promoted by the Workers' Party and the SV, that concern would have been less and, to some extent, quite well parked. It's not now, because you send everything back and go to the pulpit and say that you hope you don't get back to the Stortinget. That means you're going to stop this in the internal government work. At that time, the representatives of big business today should think about: Do they think that this is a good result? I think the Center Party should also think about it – would that really be a good result? Isn't that the part that's about municipalities and county councils, that you need a new round, isn't it about the state arrangement? The rapporteur commented on Mr Strifeldt's observations, where he mixes indigenous peoples and national minorities. There may be reason to pay more attention to national minorities — even I am a forest fin, and there is also a national minority. There is nothing to prevent the government or the Progress Party from adding a broad side to and putting in place measures to assist those groups to raise them in both language, culture and other things. I can do some advertising for the Norwegian Forest Finnish Museum, which absolutely needs a start-up grant. So there's no obstacle to that, if that's what you want. But I think that maybe that's not what was meant by the post. Then you say that you're afraid that this should be a brake, because you're not going to have to expand as much as you like. The natural basis that is the basis of our lives is, in fact, seriously threatened. Both local government and all parties should take on board the fact that there can no longer be talk of tunes and runs, local interests and bits by bit – we need to see the whole picture and take care of the natural basis on which our lives and our societies are based, which is the basis of the Sami culture, and their nutritional basis. We have a common interest in it, because this is what makes it possible to live on this planet.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e1208	It should not be surprising that there is a discussion in the Progress Party on these issues. With regard to the policy of the government parties, it is set out in the comments on the matter. There we are clearly aware of the government's policy, namely that Norway has obligations under the ILO Convention to actually have consultation mechanisms in place at all levels of government. There can be no doubt about that, it is established. Of course, when it comes to the question of women’s and women’s position, the Right recognises the fight that women are fighting for their rights, in line with the other national minorities. But we also recognise the rights that the Sami people have as indigenous peoples, in terms of international law. I still believe that it is cleanest that we get a general consultation, both on law and on counsel. The government's practice in this is determined. The majority will come back to this for its own sake after a process that the presidency will naturally lead. The Presidency's comment on this matter also signals that, in the sense that you do not go into this now, but waits for the matter to come back to Stortinget. The process we have had in the Committee – among the governmental parties and in particular among what is a large majority in this Chamber – requires that a case be brought back to the Grand Duchy where the international obligations under the ILO Convention have been fulfilled, i.e. a case based on the one we are sending back today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e1220	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e1236	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that up to five lines of response be given to posts by members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e1245	In this document, which we are now discussing, two proposals were made. One is about improving the cost key for financing county boating, and the other is about further stimulation and development of zero and low emission solutions for boating and ferrying. Since the government is already working on these questions, none of these proposals are getting multiples. In the setting, other proposals are also made that do not get multiples, but we expect the parties to do their best for their proposals. Switching to low- and zero-emission technologies in the transport sector was already a central theme in the Sundvolden platform and has been closely followed up on the Granavolden platform. It is very gratifying to note that there is a great deal of excitement here in Stortinget about this low-emission strategy. It is such that a commitment in this sector can contribute to all the necessary emission reductions as well as to work, activity and conversion in the Norwegian economy. The fleet needs renewal, which can ensure more activity at Norwegian shipyards. Norway generally has a high potential to further develop its competence and activity in the field of environmentally friendly ship design and advanced technological solutions, as a means of reducing emissions. On state highways there are zero and low emission solutions on all new offers. This work is well under way in the state road system. The county councils are also ambitious and want to participate in this development. In the county sector, it has been possible for the county authorities to benefit from the fact that these ferry routes are also operated with zero and low emission solutions in the case of new supply and on own routes. So far, several fjord crossings are now replaced by whole-electric solutions or low-flow solutions. I was recently visiting the company at the Brothers Aa in Hyen in Sogn and Fjordane, a yard that makes fast-paced passenger boats. Their concept is based on carbon hulls, which provide very light vessels, thereby significantly reducing fuel consumption and low emissions. We got a tour of a boat to be delivered to the municipality of Nordland. The government is also working on improving the sub-cost key for boats and ferries, so that the new criterion for boats in the cost key is more accurate than today. I also understand that the county councils should be involved in the work on the new criteria. It's important, because there's a lot of variation between states in demography, geography and population representation. The result of this work is expected to be presented to Stortinget in the spring of 2020, in connection with the presentation of the municipal bill for 2021. I have so much faith that a country with a real need for boat transport will be able to further develop its supply in the years to come, based on this work that has already been started.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e1266	There are considerable differences between the counties. Nordland is a large coastal region. We live in the country that has the world's second longest coastline, and in the North is 27 pst. of the coastline of the nation. The boat and ferry services are essential for people to live and work. That's the basis for getting along, trading and being able to live a good life. Although the means of ferrying and boating combined for the sector are limited in a large context, there may be significant elements for those regions with large coastlines. As a result, changes in county income and income systems have been demanding in recent years, among others. for Northern Ireland, but also for other coastal regions. I have noticed that in my letter to the Committee, the Council of State stresses that we are continuing to work on this. For me, it's a signal that you recognize that the changes you've made are causing distortions and unfortunate effects that you're trying to correct. I have also noticed that this has been announced to Stortinget in connection with the municipal billing in May next year, i.e. the municipal billing for 2021, on which the case-rapporteur was involved. Ferries and scheduled boats are very energy consuming. Today they are mainly fossil fuel, although there is a positive trend towards other forms of energy carriers. This leads to large emissions. And climate change has come – there is no more coming, there is something here. It is under-communicated how climate change will affect the way we live. Even if we were to be able to achieve the ambitious objectives of the Paris Agreement to limit the global warming to 2 pst., or even 1.5 pst., on average, the world will change. We're in a hurry if we're going to be able to achieve those goals. Therefore, it is also urgent to put in place tools to enable county councils to set up the necessary requirements. Many counties are forward-looking, but they report large additional expenditure. It's a discussion we can have in the context of the state budgets, but we are today calling for a follow-up to the Stortingen's decision to prescribe the possibility to require zero-emission or low-emission technologies where possible. The potential is great. In the case of ferries on the nearly 200 ferry routes we have, Bellona and Siemens have published a report showing that there is the potential to electrify over 120 of them. This will result in large emission reductions. Technology is moving forward, but it's urgent. Then we can't wait to give municipalities and municipalities the tools. They must be in place now, and I expect the government to follow up the Storting decision here. I take up the proposal from the Workers' Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e1283	The representative Eirik Sivertsen has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e1288	For the coastal population and for the industry along the long-distance coast of Norway – those who are responsible for high value creation and tax access to this nation, who contribute a lot of money into the state fund and can thus finance the well-being of all of us – the boat and ferry offer is crucial infrastructure for working and living in this long-term country. There have been major challenges for a number of county councils in terms of the government's conversion of the income system. How to choose to allow county councils to finance the services they will provide, i.e. how to ensure that the boat goes when it is intended, and that you get where you need to – whether it's at work, at school, or whether it's when you're going to a work meeting or sell a good – it's essential that county councils have the tools and not least the financial space required to develop these services. It is not without reason that very many coastal regions have been very critical until the time when the government has used to present changes in the income keys, which will provide the county councils with the opportunity to plan long-term offers. The county councils rely on stable conditions on the income side in order to ensure good tenders, in order to maintain the workers working on the boats, but not least in order to be able to plan good transport solutions over time. I record that the case rapporteur has taken into account one of the new so-called Nordlandsexpress boats that are going to operate in Nordland. I was involved in preparing the tender that ordered them, and I am pleased that the representative has discovered that there is an opportunity here to streamline and not least for national value creation out of renewing a fleet while respecting environmental requirements. It is precisely for this reason that the representatives behind this Document 8, which comes from many of the coastal regions in Norway, have been very concerned that a funding mechanism is in place to enable state politicians to make the choices they need to make in order to build the future's transport. One wants to develop and operate better public transport at sea, and then one also needs to get the financial instruments in place, so that one has that possibility. The centre party is concerned that there should be good services, that it should be possible to increase the production of fast boat and ferry transport services where necessary, and that adjustments should be made. The economic space for action is unfortunately weakened under this government, for the large boat and ferry companies. It is also the states that account for a large proportion of the future growth in value added. It's a shame the government has spent so long, but it's a pleasure that it now realizes that you have to make changes. With that, I want to take up the suggestions that the Central Party is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e1303	The representative Wilfred Nordlund has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e1308	Public transport is important throughout the country. What has been very happy is to see how several of the ferry crews have taken the lead sweater to develop zero-emission ferries and electrification. They're going to have to have all the praise for doing that. It shows that when government orders and takes the lead in promoting technologies that protect the climate, jobs and very good solutions are created as well. Therefore, it is important that we enable the county councils to do this. Those who have a ferry also have buses on other routes. It is absolutely necessary that the Storing and the Government now provide room for all states to convert their public transport into zero emissions. There could be electricity and biogas on buses as well, and it's important that all of this becomes zero emissions. Therefore, SV has been concerned that we need to amend the law on public acquisitions, so that all new ferries and scheduled vessels use low and zero emission technologies when the situation indicates that this is possible. I cannot understand why this has not been done, because here the county councils have gone ahead and wanted it. Now we have to make sure that those who haven't done it get an order to do it, but that you also have a funding system that makes it possible. Because there's an extra cost in the beginning to do this, it's what the county councils have told us. For either the conversion shall be to zero emissions on ferries and ferries or to zero emissions on buses. It's also very important to get there. For example, the hinterland has: self-production of biogas in several places where it is not used in the bus park, because you do not have the money to convert to it. We should certainly do that, because it is important and important measures also to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The counties need more armpits in order to be able to operate the necessary public transport. On ferries it is absolutely necessary, also in order to make private traffic work. It is extra, extra necessary to have it where there is a need for ferries to cross fjord and sea routes. I would also like to remind you that this is a much better solution for the Western road network than it is to build expensive and dangerous underground tunnels.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e1327	Norway has a challenging geography, with many places that depend entirely on boat or ferry as part of the transport solution. It is not easy to put in place a perfectly correct and fair cost key for the government cost-balancing for this. We clearly see that the current cost key has some weaknesses. We are pleased that improvements and more accurate criteria are being worked on, and that the county councils have been involved in this, and that an improved model can be put in place. The requirement for low and zero emission technologies in the ferry and boat sectors is forward-looking, correct and necessary and needs to be assessed in the work on new keys. With this I recommend the proposal for a decision such as: The Christian People's Party is behind this, which means that the proposal for a representative is not adopted. However, I note that in reality there is quite a broad consensus on the basics of this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e1336	The representative proposal addresses an important issue that the government is already working to solve. The first question relates to the criteria for boats in the income system of county municipalities. Boat routes are an important part of the infrastructure along the coast, and of course I am concerned that the boat criteria should be accurate and have legitimacy in the sector. I have noticed that some county councils believe that the new boat criteria introduced in 2018 are not suitable enough to capture variations in the cost needs of boats. That is why we have initiated a mission to obtain an external assessment of the boat criteria. The aim is to find more accurate criteria than today, and the county municipalities will of course be involved in the project. The mission will be carried out by Møreforsning in cooperation with the Institute for Transport Economics. It is Mort research that has developed the criteria for ferries in today's cost key. As I said, the county councils will be involved in the work on the new criteria, and we have already sent out an invitation to all county councils, KS and the state road authorities to participate in a reference group for the project. We aim to present the investigation in the municipal bill for 2021. The second part of the proposal concerns measures to stimulate climate-friendly solutions for boat and ferry, and we are also in the process here. The Government is committed to reducing emissions from the transport sector. It is important that we then have a long-term approach to reduce emissions in a cost-effective way. We have established support schemes for the local government sector, including: through Enova, and in the state budget for 2018, we strengthened the framework grant to the boat and ferry companies by 100 million. kr to facilitate new environmentally friendly technologies. The bets have produced results. County municipalities have taken a clear responsibility for reducing greenhouse gas emissions and have placed many stringent environmental requirements in a number of new holiday offers. Several electric ferries are already in use, and in the next few years a number of new ferries will be used with new climate-friendly solutions. The government is now working on a plan for fossil-free public transport and an action plan for green shipping. In this work, we also assess measures to facilitate environmentally friendly solutions in boat and ferry.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e1352	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e1357	The criteria of the municipal and county income system are a favorite debate for a particular small group here in the country, but it is a recurring theme, because it has proved to be very demanding. The criteria that were already in place have been considered by the government not to be accurate enough, and then it has been found that the new criteria and changes that have been made have also not produced the desired results. The Council of State has now announced in letters and from the pulpit that it is working on setting up new criteria, and that it wants to get to Stortinget with them for the next year. I have come to the point that I am in doubt that we can actually succeed in this. Therefore, I would like to ask the Council of State: will the Council of State, in the context of going through these criteria, consider doing what we did on the county roads when we made a large number of thousands of kilometres of county roads to the counties in 2010, and assess a separate distribution, i.e. in Table C of the income system, for the county's large boat and ferry costs?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e1366	When we have a process like this that we have now, we have to be willing to listen to all the recordings. What we had from 2015 to 2017 was not a criteria system based on objective criteria – it was a reimbursement system. Our income system is not, and should not be, based on a reimbursement system. We want to put in place more objective criteria that are predictable and that everyone can relate to. Of course, we can evaluate the proposal for the representative Sivertsen, and once we have invited the county councils and KS into a reference group, I assume that these are things that are also recorded there. First of all, we now want a professional approach to get as objective criteria as possible, but it is quite right, as the representative says, that it is demanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e1373	Then I get to say thank you for the answer. I share the objective of the Council of State that we should have an objective system that also provides incentives for continuous improvement and development of the offer we have, and to reduce costs while maintaining or developing the quality of the coastal population. I'm glad that the Council of State is taking along the idea of assessing a separate distribution through Table C. The Council of State replied both in letters and from the pulpit to the second part of the debate here today, which is about how we get more climate-friendly and environmentally friendly public transport, especially with regard to ferries and boats. She pointed out that the government has a work to do, including: with plans for fossil-free public transport. We have requested a prescription attachment as a follow-up to a decision regarding the matter we are dealing with. When will the plans referred to by the Council of State be available, and when will the regulations we have requested be put in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e1380	This is a work that the Ministry of Climate and Environment is working on. If I understand them correctly, they're working to get these plans out during the fall of the current year, and I hope they deliver them, as they have stated.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e1385	I noticed that the Council of State was concerned that Enova had been given more room for action in order to grant grants to county councils for zero and low emissions from ferry and boat. It is good and good, but it is interesting to note that the government has not been able to follow up the Storting's decision to put in place requirements in the regulation that zero and low emissions can be taken into account when you see that this is possible. I want to focus on the fact that we have a big tourist stake along the coast. Commercial routes take place to a large extent and, in many respects, the county council is in fact a privilege holder, giving the right to operate regular services on a commercial basis around the country. Could it be an idea for the government to consider the proposal behind the Central Party, among other things. to allow county councils to impose zero and low emission requirements in connection with the granting of permits under the Professional Transport Act § 7 when granting commercial tourist operator the possibility to drive a boat on a commercial basis?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e1392	First, we have to clear up a little: it is the case that counties and municipalities have all the opportunity to impose public tender requirements once we have put in place new public procurement rules. I know that regulation very well since I, as Minister of Industry, presented the proposal. Environmental requirements must be imposed, and there is a wide scope for action to impose zero and low emissions, if you wish, in relation to the tenders you are making. It is also the case that the Ministry of Transport is responsible for the Professional Transport Act, and they therefore believe that there is no need for the regulations requested by the representative Nordlund – precisely because most of the routes are based on a public agreement, and so these agreements may require it. You simply think that this is superfluous.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e1399	If the diesel-powered speedboats in Sogn and Fjordane were replaced by hydrogen-powered boats, more than half of them would be emitted from public transport in the state, the calculation of the hydrogen region of Sogn and Fjordane. The county council has put half a million kroner at its disposal to develop the project, but it is clear that it costs to realize this project. Just as it costs when Hordaland County is now demanding renewable fuels on the ferries that one lights up, they have large, high extra costs. Ferry costs are – unlike bombing costs, of which the government is very busy – forever. Does the Council of State think it is right that such large costs should be borne by the individual county council without being compensated by the large community, when the government is willing to cut tolls that are generally up to a maximum of 15 years?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e1404	First, I want to praise the county councils. This is a county responsibility, and they really took that responsibility. The fact that they have made demands in their bids means that we have developed amazing technology all over the coast. We are world leaders. Then this is not the everlasting cost. It is very often that developing new technology costs the most for the first time, and then it becomes more reasonable and fairer – hopefully. The government has passed through, among others. Enova provided a significant opportunity for county councils to obtain grants. They do. There have also been liberal community settlements and county settlements. Only this year, demographic expenditure is expected to be reduced by over half a billion dollars. We didn't bring that back, to say it like this. So the county councils can give priority, and I also believe that the county councils do – in addition to that we have 100 million. in the county framework, just for boat and ferry technology.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e1411	There is no doubt that many of the county municipalities have been much more forward and forward-looking than the government has been. The question here is, when are concrete requirements to be set, so that everyone has to do this? Does the government then believe – at least about the hunching cost now mentioned by the Council of State – that in a transition to new technology things often get more expensive, and then the price goes down gradually? If you don't get to sell ferries with emissions, you build emission-free ferries, and then the price of them goes down too. There is a hump cost that some states could have problems taking – and defending. Then there are two things that can help. One is a code that says you have to. The other thing that needs to be done is to get aid for that extra cost over a period of time.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e1416	The code is in place. The county councils have full room for action to make demands through the new legislation adopted here in Stortinget. Those requirements apply to county councils. That's very good. There must be room for action to assess their needs, and then we must have confidence that the county councils are making the right assessments according to their needs. I also believe – both through the county councils in recent years, through Enova's grants, through green shipping, through maritime strategy – that government has been extremely ambitious. It also shows the result when we see what is happening along the coast, both on the industrial front and on the ferry and boat front.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e1424	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e1431	Today’s discussion is about a subject that has been discussed many times in the past. The solution to this problem was that one would use the real costs as a starting point, that one had a system that measured distances, that one would also look at the system in which the State Road Service let these distances into, and that the county actually got what it cost. It may be inconceivable that the system did not stimulate enough efficiency. But it also does not stimulate efficiency when a user receives a cost coverage that is far below that of a user. It stimulates frustration. We have a government today where one of the big parties says they should cut billions of tolls. The government has also announced that they will cut 200 million. kr this year on tolls. As most people know, toll costs are a short-term affair. Even we who had a cost of up to NOK 200 per pass to Fjærland in Sogn, accepted it, because one knew that after a maximum of 15 years, the costs were gone. But when I'm going to take a trip to Sogndal from Lærdal, at least I know today – it's not planning on Bru right now, at least – that the costs are not something that lasts only 15 years. I'm very surprised by the government, which is going so hard on the track when it comes to tolls, but is not willing to compensate for those states that have difficult infrastructure, which spend a lot of time on the ferries – there are many disadvantages about it, even if it's good with food and coffee. There's a whole silence in the government. There is no willingness to do anything. A new project will appear, which will probably go to Moresearch again. In my time I did it, it led to nothing. The government has done it once before, leading to nothing. They just have to light up more -- it's not going to lead to anything, because there's so few states in the world, and there's so much difference. This does not result in any use of regression analyses and the usual methods of calculating the distribution of the funds to the county councils. On the previous change, Sogn and Fjordne received reduced income, and there is a risk that this might happen again. This government is not particularly happy in either Sogn and Fjordane or other districts. We know that there are great benefits to the climate by renewing the material. It is the government's duty to enable the county councils to make that promise, and I see no willingness to do so today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e1444	I can start with ‘over a mountain, through a tunnel, over a bridge’ – that’s what we see along the coast and on the West every day. It's not all fjords, where the representative Navarsete was in, where you can get fjord crossings so you can have a ferry, and it's also expensive. We're very dependent on a ferry along the coast. Our ferries can compare to the track, so trains and public transport here. Then you can see how important it is for us to put these that go, that go all day. I want to say a little about More and Romesdal, which is the most remote state when it comes to ferry traffic. There's a lot of food transport there, and to put it this way: there's no one who's more busy coming to the market than a dead salmon. Through the proposed income system from 2020 for our part, in More and Romesdal, there is a lack of some information. One hundred million. kr to cover operations, in addition to capital costs on investments from zero and low-driving and high-speed craft. And then we also see that our state is the state that has most of the vehicles that say that, that is, we have to have a better supply than what we have today. Over 80 pst. the road network is currently a municipal and municipal road and is dependent on getting funds from the State budget. The government has asked the government to help finance zero and low emission solutions for the municipalities. So far nothing has happened, so more county councils now have to put on the brake because this is very capital-intensive. It's not just the environmental cost, but it's that we need to increase the capacity and frequency of the ferries and boat routes with today's traffic patterns so that the business will get what they're going to do with goods and services, and that the elephants and the people who live there will come home. The centre party asked the Stortinget and the government to stimulate further development of zero and low emission solutions for ferries and boats. It's an incredibly important bet for the West and the coast of Norway otherwise, so that we can have a good life there now. I also want to agree with Navarsete: Ferries are like an eternal bomb.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e1455	Although the income system we're talking about, sometimes might seem a little technically complicated, it's basically about how we're going to finance county municipalities, and how they're going to be able to provide good services across the country, where people live – in this case ferry and boat services. A little heartbreak: The newspapers often have notices that county councils are making changes in boat and ferry routes, but when we discuss how to finance this system here in the country, unfortunately you are not there much. But I really took the word because the Council of State mixes two things. In my reply, I did not ask what requirements could be placed on the regular tenders and the agreements entered into by county councils in connection with the purchase of ferry and boat services. What I was looking for was to get an answer as to whether the Council of State could assess whether we should look at Section 7 of the Transport Act when we are talking about commercial routes, where the county municipality is thus a privilege holder, but besides it has no financial agreement with the person who is driving the transport, about the boat or ferry. It is mainly about the boat. That was my question, and I record that the Council of State was not interested in it. I note with even greater amazement the fact that the Ministry of Transport does not consider it appropriate to address these changes, including whether zero and low emission requirements should be imposed in connection with the regulation on public acquisitions. It's special, because the Storting has decided that it should be in the regulation, and it's not in the regulation today. Then the Central Party will have to support the Workers' Party and the SV's proposal that the government should get started and get it in place, deliver at this point, when the Storting has actually adopted it. Whether the Ministry of Transport or the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation believes that this is not appropriate – yes, I do not care very much about that. They will then come back — if they feel that there is no need — and ask the Grand Duchy to take a new decision. Governments are concerned that they have had a liberal community and county structure. It's a truth with great modifications. For the large ferry and boat counties, this is generally not the case. It is difficult to meet – regardless of what special efforts have been made in the allocation of the framework grant – the need to do so. Whenever it comes to demographic change in the population, it is difficult to put down school classes and to make boat offers, which are needed by industry, the counties are placed in a difficult position, even though at the macro level – when you look at it nationally – you may have given a room, overall. For ferry and boat counties, there is not enough room to bet on zero and low emissions, nor to strengthen the boat and ferry services, on which the industry and the population across the coast depend. Finally, I note that there are a number of parties that are otherwise, out locally, very active in this debate, which are not present in the Chamber today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e1468	I'm glad there's a lot of people who are busy and see that you have to do something about it. But it's frustrating, at least from my point of view, that every time you try to strengthen something, you have to do another one. I believe the states who feel this, know it well. We have in this committee people from different parties who come from Hordaland, a state that was early out there and would do something about its ferry fleet, get renewal, get a more environmentally-friendly and climate-friendly fleet – at the request of Stortinget – but that sees that the costs of this become huge. It's the same state that has many challenges with the county roads, which are also not well enough compensated. In Hordaland we've also had discussions about getting more environmentally friendly speedboats, but one now sees that one has to put that on, because one doesn't have the economy for it. It is important that the ferries are maintained and that any person strengthens the ferry service. What one sees in the conversion that is taking place in Hordaland from 2020 is that it is demanding to be able to maintain a ferry as well as what has been up to today. This is not how we can create an environmentally friendly ferry by reducing the supply of people living in the districts. They must also be able to participate in developments. With the good ambitions that are ours said, I can't understand that not a total greatness can go for the proposals that are here today. It should be unproblematic, and I am particularly surprised that the Labour Party does not want to support the proposal No. Two and three.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e1479	I was not aware that I could be as unclear as the representative Nordlund had been given the impression. The representative started his reply to me by saying that the counties and municipalities cannot make demands, and then my answer was that yes, they can. Public procurement rules may require requirements, and demands are made, and that is very good. That's what I said. Then I was asked if it was appropriate to change the Professional Transport Act for commercial routes. Then I replied that there is no need for the Senter party. So it was not linked to the general rules on public procurement. There, the Stortinget has taken its decisions – based on a forward-looking government, which proposed these rules, and which, in advance of that, already in 2015, presented a maritime strategy in which we said we should demand low or zero emissions when there was a basis for it. It was linked to the Professional Transport Act. The Ministry of Transport did not need it, simply because it is a very, very small proportion attached to commercial routes. The largest proportion is linked to purchases from the county and may be required there. So you have the home that the representative wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e1486	Wilfred Nordlund has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e1491	The centre party sees just the need to set these requirements – I think the council said it was wrong. That is precisely why we have requested it and, to the extent that we have also made proposals to give the county councils the opportunity in connection with commercial routes where they are entitled, which was also the beginning of my reply. After all, when the Ministry of Transport says that there is no need to make changes to the tendering regime, where you buy transport services, the Stortinget has decided that it should be stated in the regulation that zero and low emissions should be possible as soon as possible. With regard to the commercial routes where the county municipality is a privilege holder, I register that the department does not think it is necessary. The centre party believes that there is a need to give it the opportunity there. We've had a discussion of this in the Chamber in several rounds in the case of important national tourist fjords, and it should be lacking that it was not possible to discuss the purely commercial possibilities of setting these requirements.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e1498	The debate shows that we are at least quite a few if we want to go, and that is actually very good. But I think it's very strange that the Center Party in particular is unlikely to be involved in this matter here today. They have historically not been equally involved in this topic. I just want to remind you of what they voted on December 1, 2015 in connection with the treatment of the Innst. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth Then they voted against the Roman Numeration Decision VIII, where it is called: ‘The Government is asking for measures to be taken to ensure that all county and local ferries and fast boats use low or zero-emission technologies for new offers and for self-reliance routes.’ The Central Party voted against this on 1 December 2015. But now, fortunately, we're getting a little bit further. The Central Party also lacks a financial contribution to this transition. Then they could not have realized that it was a historic venture on Enova – a historic venture on Enova. Whenever the money flows have gone, and what measures and means have been used to equip county councils to participate in this conversion work, one can see that there have been very large funds used to do this, as well as the funds that have gone through the cost key.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e1510	I will not extend the debate, but just give a brief explanation of vote, since it was requested. I share Mr Navarsete's view of why we are not going to move forward with this discussion: because the solution is probably more political than objective. And as I said in the lineword shift, I think the solution is somewhere else. But I am confident and assume that the Council of State has intended to keep what she has promised here, and to come back to the Stortinget – with a view to doing so in May next year – with a review of the criteria, so that the Storting can gain insight into it. Then it becomes a bit to turn open doors when we have been turned so clearly that it is going to happen. With regard to the issue of setting up county municipalities better able to develop climate-friendly solutions for boat and ferry operations, it may be tempting to address the whole debate here. But I think I'm content to show that in our alternative budgets and in our own climate-emission budget we also have a completely different arrangement, which would have just done it for the county municipalities. I see no intention of asking the government to investigate further and come back with a completely different policy than the Workers' Party stands for.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e1521	Now I wasn't a politician at Stortinget in 2015, so I won't go into it. But a little bit of what we see here may be the basis for a not daring to go in for this. For one sees that it is easy to set requirements for county councils, but when one sees the cost with it, one follows up, so that one gets big challenges when it comes to county. I think it is positive if the representative Trellevik is in – and he is – when we have the county municipality in Hordaland visiting and listening to the challenges with this. Then one sees that there's no doubt that it's given means, and I've also said that. However, they do not follow up on the extra costs of getting these paths started and also of being able to develop the speedboats. That's the challenge, and then finally it becomes the travelers, the people who live in the district and are totally dependent on a good ferry offer, who get hurt when this is not followed up. And I think it's a shame that we can't be a little bit more impatient in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e1529	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e1547	A basic pillar in Norway is the right to an equivalent school offer, that all children, regardless of the municipality in which they live, and which school they attend, have to have a school that gives them the tools they need to master the rest of their lives. Unfortunately, we know that this is not the reality in this long-term country with over 400 primary school owners. Most recently, Flekkefjord secondary school was able to tell that they have investigated 27 students with a suspicion of dyslexia and difficulty in reading and writing. 19 of these students were diagnosed with dyslexia. So this is 19 students who have gone through 10 years of elementary school — most likely with a backpack filled with quite bad experiences and a lack of mastery feeling. If the same students had lived in another municipality, perhaps especially in a municipality where the schools have been certified as dyslexic, they would most likely have been identified earlier and better followed up. This is a simple example, but we see that the future of students is too much determined by which school you start, which municipality you live in, and even – to a very large extent – what class you end up in. The chance for a student in Finnmark to complete high school in normal time is 41 p.m., while the chance in Sogn and Fjordane is 66 p.m. If you are a boy and have parents with only primary school as a highest level of education, you have more than twice as likely to complete and pass secondary education if you live in one of the best school municipalities in Norway than if you live in one of the poor school municipalities in Norway. The school contribution indicators, which I am very pleased that the government has taken the initiative, show that there are considerable differences between schools in how much they contribute to students' learning. This ignores the students’ background — especially the educational level of parents. For the youngest students, as I said, this is almost two school years of learning. I'm very happy that the arrows are pointing in the right direction. The record of completion of secondary education and the highest rate of increase in the proportion of those who completed higher education last year were, for example, in recent years. Finnmark and Troms – two of the counties that we otherwise bring forward among those who have greater challenges than other states. By providing three times as many teachers with continuing training and by introducing master's training and introducing the system of teacher specialists, more up-to-date teachers are getting better cooperation in a good professional community. So then we get teachers, and not least teachers, who develop pedagogical, professional, didactic judgment in cooperation with each other. They are then given the opportunity to reflect jointly on education and pedagogics. Then you get schools that are learning organisations. So it's the school manager's competence that is one of the keys, that is, that we, among other things. by introducing teacher training has helped us to have more managers who are safe in the role and who can develop the good professional communities. There is no doubt that both on the Teacher's Lift and in the effort to train a teacher, more efforts have been made to balance these differences. But as the school contribution indicators show, we absolutely need to do more. There are differences in educational practices and the learning environment, and there is no coincidence that there are differences between schools and between municipalities. School owners who succeed and get good results work in a way that the state and we who sit in this room cannot regulate or legislate us until now. They facilitate the systematic and knowledge-based work of schools. Together with the schools, they use the information on student outcomes to develop strategies for further development, and not least build them up under a good professional community. An example of a good school owner is Rissa municipality, which won the 2016 school owner’s prize – a small municipality that carries out a very systematic work for students to become active members of society, mastering basic skills and being part of the community. Another example that I would like to draw up is many of the municipalities in the north-east of Hedmark, which together with the College of the Inland have managed to create a better culture for learning in the last ten years. They have driven an active and supportive development of their schools. They have given priority to increasing the skills of teachers and educational leaders, helping to increase the number of competent school managers, and increasing the number of school-owners in the administration that has pedagogical experience. The proportion who completed secondary education in 2017–2018 in Hedmark was 86.5 pst. It's a record, and that means that hundreds of individuals experience mastering and have more opportunities for the rest of their lives. I could mention a lot more municipalities. My home municipality, Oslo, has, for example, is one of the few municipalities that manage to balance social differences. It also shows the school contribution indicators for primary schools. But unfortunately, we see that even though we have a lot of good school owners who win school prices, and which we can draw out, there are very big differences – and that's what worries me. In the evaluation of the Knowledge Lift, only weak links between school owners and schools became one of the reasons why some school owners are failing. Several teachers and school leaders also reported that they feel that the political level is quite absent and to a small extent supports the educational work. The problem is often – it is discussed – that school owners and politicians control the schools in detail. We know that's a challenge, but what you also see is that school owners as retailers can control detail at one level, while suddenly at another level you can be completely absent from building up during the work that's going on. We have some municipalities where half of the students are under the critical limit of reading, writing and billing, year after year, without greater intervention by local or national authorities. And there is still a tendency — when traveling around — for local politicians and national politicians to minimize poor school outcomes or claim that poor professional outcomes over time do not say anything about school quality because school should be so much more. I think that's an explanation that doesn't make you a more active school owner. A good learning environment is not a smart fix, but we know something about what works. We know, for example. good schools avoid high quality differences between the A and B classes at the same level by giving professionally up-to-date teachers room for cooperation and discussion of their own practices. We know that active school owners use screening tests as one of several tools to follow up those schools and students who need it the most. Although professional results don't tell everything about school quality, they tell a lot. And it doesn't matter, as I said, to explain high dropout rates or that many students don't master basic skills, that the school's societal mission is broad. We know that a good school is good for everyone, and that it is not a contrast between good professional achievements and well-being and a good learning environment – rather the opposite. If we're going to fight social inequality, the differences in School Norway, the difference between municipalities, the difference between schools, should be at the top of the list of concerns. We have to start by learning from the successful municipalities and schools. I hope this interpellation can be a start on a good and important discussion about just this. I end my post by asking the Council of State questions about what he thinks about the differences in quality between municipalities and schools, and what is important in order to reduce these differences.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e1579	Thank you for an important interpellation. The goal is to have a school that is so good that it's not the student's background or place of residence that determines how well you succeed, but the student's talent, interest and effort. We all know how important a good school is, and how vital it is for students to complete high school and get an education. That's why we're going to fight the discrepancy school -- inequalities the students can't do anything about themselves -- and we're going to lift all students, by facilitating mastering and learning. The fight against the differential school is therefore also the fight for the knowledge school. Then we're going to be glad that a lot of things are going in the right direction: the students are learning more and are more present, and more are completing high school. The implementation of secondary education is increasing most among low-educated parents and Norwegian-born pupils with a migrant background. And the student survey shows that there are fewer victims of bullying. The school contribution indicators are part of the national quality assessment system. We know that the students' family background, such as The level of education of parents is important for how well students do it at school. Although a school has a low characterization, it doesn't have to say that the school contributes little to learning. The results of the school may be an expression of the fact that many of the students have low-skilled parents. The school contribution indicators answer the following questions: What would the differences between schools have been if they had the same student base? This information therefore helps to nuance the differences between schools shown by national tests and characteristics and shows how well the school manages to lift the students. My starting point is that core tasks in the Norwegian welfare community, such as kindergarten, school and health care, depend on strong local democracy. These services are organised and adapted locally precisely because the municipality knows the inhabitants and the local conditions. The municipality can make an offer that suits the needs of the people who live there. Local policies must have confidence and freedom to organise services that are best for their citizens. At the same time, we must demand results and facilitate the provision of services to municipalities, for example: as school owners, can do a good job. An example of this is transparency about results, so that local politicians, but also residents and national authorities can assess the quality of services provided by the municipality. As national authorities, we shall set objectives and provide good framework conditions, support and guidance. We're going to set goals for learning and learning environments, and we're going to make good systems that are transparent about outcomes at all levels. Such a quality assessment system provides municipalities and schools with knowledge of how both themselves and others achieve the objectives set. In Norwegian school, since the beginning of the 2000s, we have built a system that makes it possible to say something about different aspects of the quality of each school and the differences in quality between schools. The quality of the school is not just about students learning basic skills such as reading and billing, or about exam results. It is equally important that the quality assessment system also provides information on students’ well-being, mastering experience, bullying and learning environment. Good learning and a good learning environment are interrelated. The different elements of the quality assessment system provide a broad knowledge base for school owners to decide which measures they should apply locally and in each school. We are concerned with clear frameworks and objectives, good systems for sharing information and a living local democracy that assesses responses to the needs of the population. In addition, we have done a lot that I believe will strengthen Norwegian school further. The government has introduced masters training for teachers and competence requirements for teaching in Norwegian, English and mathematics. We also carry out a historic continuing training promise. From 2014 to 2019, nearly 34 000 teachers have been offered further training. Since 2015, we have allocated considerable funding to several teachers in primary school, and last autumn we introduced the teaching standard. This results in results. This year, there are fewer students per teacher than at any other time in the last ten years. We have also legalised an obligation for schools to provide intensive training for students from 1st to 4th grade. All 1- to 4-stage students who are left in reading, writing or billing shall be offered intensive training. This does not require extensive investigation of children, and it does not give more bureaucracy, but the school has been given a clear responsibility to help students get the help they need. The goal is for all students to be able to read, write and calculate properly when they leave primary school. Early efforts are then essential. Students must be comfortable at school, and they must have it safe and sound. Therefore, it is very important that schools work systematically to develop a safe and inclusive learning environment that promotes health, well-being and learning for all. Good adult competence strengthens the capacity of kindergartens and schools to prevent, detect and manage bullying. The government therefore has several competence development measures that school owners can choose to participate in. One of these is the Educational Environment Project. Through this offer, 103 schools in 42 municipalities received guidance from external supervisors. All schools participating in the Educational Environment project ranged from having bullying numbers above the national average to now lying below. In addition, over 1000 schools and kindergartens across the country participate in development of competences that help adults to better prevent, detect and manage bullying. Municipalities and county councils have the primary responsibility for the development of school competence. A decentralised system of skills development shall contribute to the implementation by all school owners of their own competence development measures adapted to their needs. Development work shall be based on the challenges of the individual school or municipality/municipality and shall provide better learning for the students. The counties, school owners, local UH institutions and other relevant actors shall cooperate to identify the need for development of competences and development planning. All students should receive good quality training irrespective of their country of residence. The government has therefore introduced a lower school-quality threshold to identify low school-quality municipalities. Municipalities are offered state support and guidance for two years to help increase the quality of training for students. The scheme currently includes 66 municipalities and 227 public schools, and all municipalities have taken action to improve the quality of training. About half have asked for assistance from the National Guide Corps, while other municipalities have taken other measures in dialogue and cooperation with the county councillors. We are now working with a big message about early efforts and inclusive communities. It shall be submitted until the harvest. Early efforts are about having a good educational offer from children being small, but it is also about taking action quickly when the challenges are being identified. In the Communication, we will follow the recommendations of expert groups, such as the Nordahl Group and the Stoltenberg Committee, which have seen differences in the Norwegian school system. Furthermore, the Communication will provide concrete examples of schools that succeed in including all students. We will examine what these schools have done to increase their skills and strengthen the supply of children with challenges, and then consider how other schools can learn from this. We want a school that provides opportunities for everyone, and where the background is not important for how well students succeed. I believe that the message work we have now started will contribute to an important step in this direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e1611	I thank the Council of State for a good answer. I am particularly pleased that you stress that the characterization of a school doesn't very often say so much about the quality of the school. I've been to -- let's say -- a high school in Oslo that gets in students with over half of them having less than 3 averages from high school and a lot of absence. I've met a teacher who's made a custom math book to take back knowledge holes from the fourth grade in a math pensum. It is clear that only students will be able to pass – at 2 or 3 – often be more impressive than schools that bring in students with a high level of competence and strong professional skills. What characterizes these schools is that even though they have many students who may have a weaker professional background, they don't use it as an excuse for not being able to lift the students, but they signal that they expect the students to be able to do it. Having high expectations for students means that many schools can learn from – and many politicians can learn from. I am also pleased that the Council of State is clear that he needs to give priority to the research shown is most important in raising students' results, and not least in order to experience mastery: the teacher's competence, quality monitoring, transparency of results and early efforts. It often surprises me that local and national politicians do not dare to say out loud that some things are more important than others in order to balance social differences. For example, it has to be. be able to say that if teachers are trained in continuous training by politicians in order to give priority to the introduction of free fruit, there is a wrong priority. It is not a bad response, but a wrong priority if you want to fight the discord. What I want to challenge the Council of States is two of the arrangements he mentioned. He first referred to the decentralised model of competence development – a complicated word! It is positive that local school owners are held responsible and that they are given the opportunity to develop and implement skills enhancement and their own development projects. At the same time, I'm a little worried that when you get the local freedom of action, combined with the renewal of the profession with teacher plans to slim down your skills, it can lead to greater quality differences if there's not enough guidance material. I would like to hear what the Council of State thinks about that problem, and how to particularly follow up on the municipalities that we already know have weak results and perhaps not the best professional communities present. The second scheme — one of my heart children — was also the Council of State within: the follow-up system, which is an incredibly important step to prevent some municipalities from having schools of rather poor quality over many years. The goal must be that the scheme is well received and played with the profession and the school owner. My question to the Council of State is whether he can see that the scheme can be further developed and perhaps also applies to several municipalities or single schools that we see have major challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e1624	I am very pleased with the questions the representative is travelling. The differences we see today between schools and municipalities are totally unacceptable. It should not be the student's background, how parents are born, how long their parents have, or where you live, that determines how well you succeed. Therefore, there is a combination of local and national responsibilities. As national authorities, we are also responsible for ensuring that we have good arrangements to raise those schools and those students who are struggling. In the case of a decentralised mechanism for the development of competences and the follow-up system, two schemes were put in place in 2017. We are constantly working on how to look at the device and how these arrangements can get better. For example, we will now consider how the criterion set used to identify municipalities that are below the lower limit can be further improved. So this we have attention around. But when it comes to professional renewal, I'd say that there's not a number of competence goals that determine how good the school is. The quality of teachers and the learning environment is crucial. This is why it is so important that the government now implements a historic promise of continuing education and that we have the decentralised model where it is not random what is given priority. This is one of the tools that can be used by the follow-up system, and which the community also uses in dialogue with the municipalities, so that the competences that are available can be put where the needs are all, most important. In general, it is often a challenge for those who are already well advanced to be most enthusiastic about national schemes. Therefore, it is so important that we have the follow-up system and the role of the statesmen in the decentralised model, which enables us to identify and respond to those who need the most. Otherwise, this is one of the areas where there is the greatest disagreement between the parties on the civil side and the left. We see how the left-hand side has continuously led a fight against openness, lowers the ambitions of the school by going against the skills requirements of teachers and counters the necessary monitoring of national tests. If we're going to succeed in raising all schools, if we're going to succeed in all students experiencing mastering and learning, we have to have both mapping and early efforts, so that we can make sure that students get early help, and that the schools that are going to attend are given the opportunity to get up.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e1645	First, thank you to the interpellant, who addresses the theme of differences between schools. It is no surprise that there are differences between municipalities, between schools, between students. We've discussed that before, and we're going to continue to discuss that. Since 2013, the right has been responsible for school policy in government. Both before and after 2013, it has been known that the differences in measurable outcomes between schools, within schools and between municipalities are significant. When this debate comes, the differences between municipalities, between schools are often discussed. It's important to discuss these differences, but it can't be reduced to it, because a very important point in this debate is that there are huge differences in school, based on social background, and that school reproduces social differences. And not only that, the social differences aren't just reproduced, they're amplified through school. The working party is that you have clear demands for the school, for teachers and for municipalities to deliver results. We're because we have an active school policy, that we measure that we have knowledge of what's going on in school, by measuring smart. But there's also something else we have to take over. If we agree that Norwegian school often reinforces social differences through school, then there is another recognition that we have to take over. It is that the researchers have told us through evaluations of the Knowledge Promise and the new curricula adopted in 2004 and entered into force in 2006 that the Knowledge Promise has given greater importance to social backgrounds. Researchers point out that parents’ education has become more important to students’ school outcomes after the introduction of the Knowledge Promise. I think that is a responsibility for all of us politicians who have been involved in either initiating or implementing the Knowledge promise, must take over us. A lack of recognition in this area will not ensure that we get solutions that work. One of the things researchers say in the evaluation of the Knowledge promise – and here I just want to stress that the Workers' Party and I are very much in order for us to focus on learning and basic skills in school – is that the way in which we had focused on knowledge and basic skills strengthened the benefit of having parents with long-term education. This was because, in practice, it meant a stronger emphasis on the type of academic competence that corresponds to — let us say — the typical work tasks and educational background of the typical middle class in Norway. So there was also less room for practical learning in school. There is no contrast between practical learning and basic skills. There were also several features of the School Knowledge Lift that reinforced the importance of the students’ social background. The researchers point out, among other things: that the increased use of screening tools, testing and professional feedback to students who followed the Knowledge promise may have reinforced the social differences. It's not an argument to remove testing or screening, but to look at the way you do it in school today. Recently, the proposal for new curricula, to be introduced at school in 2020, was put to a hearing. In the trade renewal, the government describes trade renewal as a renewal of the Knowledge promise. But despite the fact that the evaluation of the promise of knowledge shows that there are several aspects of the reform that may have reinforced social differences, the government does not take into account the social differences in school outcomes to an appreciable extent. It is also not among the challenges that need to be addressed. There is something we also have to take into account in education policy. Now I don't have time to talk about what we think should be done in all these areas. We are concerned with measures that reduce differences, both through school food, more play, practical learning and more groups of professionals, and by preventing prices from excluding children from kindergarten or SFO. We are concerned with increasing the emphasis on early efforts, that we still have a high focus on continuing education and training and the professional community, and that we are getting better teacher training. In the end, I also want to mention that it is a mistake to discuss differences in School-Norway as just a school policy challenge. If we know that differences in parental educational background and economic assumptions are important reasons for school differences, yes, then distribution policy has something to say, family policy has something to say, employment and social policy instruments to say, and it matters to education policy. Then we cannot discuss education policy in isolation from the other areas of society and policies that have an impact.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e1666	We are at a crossroads for the future school. Where the right-hand school contributes to greater social inequality, SV will take the fight for better inclusion and broader knowledge and strengthen the teaching role. The school of the future forms the societies of the future. That's why the choices we're making now are important not only to the individual, but also to society as a whole. The government’s exaggerated belief in competition and ranking is old-fashioned and backward-English, but confirms a Right that has for years had a narrow view of learning and knowledge. Talking about 'the best and weakest schools', as the interpellant writes, I believe is a derailment from what is important in this debate. The Education Association writes on its websites that they are ‘generally critical of the ranking of schools and municipalities based on the results of the students on these types of tests and examinations’. The SSB is also clear and does not recommend using school contribution indicators in ‘best/poor’ schools. We know a lot about what's important: more teachers, less target management and reporting and strengthened school budgets. I believe that the critical comments of the Education Association are worth listening to. There are many factors that play in the school, but then the government parties must also notice that the local economy has a lot to say. In many places, school budgets have been tightened up for many years. Transfers to the municipalities, which today's knowledge minister knows well as a former municipal minister, are crucial. Then the Stortinget and the government must acknowledge that since 2013 too little has been allocated to the municipalities of the country and thus to the school, teachers and students. The government is responsible for an equivalent school offer and must not be responsible for the municipalities and teachers. It is the Minister of Knowledge who has to blame for the fact that there has been fewer — no more — qualified teachers, and that they introduce increasingly strong target and result management with increased competition, control and ranking, which weakens the school's ability to fulfil its social mandate and adapt education to the needs of each child. I am currently visiting all the schools in Stavanger and have until now been on 29 of them. That tour has made it clear to me that, fortunately, the schools have quite ample freedom to choose what they themselves will focus on as a profile. Some put heavy emphasis on technology, others on more practical teaching, some on language priorities, others on real science. SV trusts the school and the teachers. By trusting in pedagogues and more teachers, we can ensure a good school. Yesterday I received a letter. It sounds like this: ‘To Erik Sakariassen I wish Eigane's school was playless. And we could rather go an hour longer at school. For a lecture-free school. I would also like us to have warm oatmeal once a week because then we can concentrate better. Hilsen Daniel Malmin, 5B’ Daniel and many other students I meet just promise that they don't want homework. There are several schools around the country, including in my home town, Stavanger, that drop the homework. We know that homework helps to reproduce differences between students. Research from the SSB has concluded that: ‘ Pupils with a low socio-economic background with a high level of homework performance lower than pupils with a similar background who receive less homework.’ It's time to say that homeworkers belong to a different time, rather than pursue a more modern knowledge policy. ‘Teacher in front of bulbs’ has representatives of the Right said several times. Then they removed the school fruit, cut down 600 teaching positions in high school, and gave billions to the richest of the country. Teachers in front of billionaires think I'm a better priority. SV wants school food. We know that learning and nutrition are interrelated. The head doesn't travel alone at school, we actually send whole people there, and not all of them get healthy and enough food at home. SV's full-time school will provide more learning and well-being for everyone, and it represents a broad knowledge view. SV wants a school where all children can succeed, learn and thrive. Schools cannot compensate for social differences on their own, but are an important contribution. Then we need to adapt education to the needs of each child — not pursue a policy where everyone has to be measured and weighed over the same reading. Schools must have time and opportunity to teach practically and differently and in the ways that they see students need to learn – not just practice for the next test.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e1706	Thank you for the preliminary debate. We often have a debate in this room about the number of dollars we spend, the number of teachers we have, or the number of hours you spend in school. But then, when you look at the differences between municipalities, the differences between schools, you can also see that it is not always crucial for quality, because the mastering they get, for the learning they have. I have to say that, after never having heard the left side dry to talk so much about quality differences between schools and municipalities, it almost seems embarrassing that this debate goes back to the classic school debates – instead of discussing in detail what to do in order to have a good professional community, to have active school owners, and how to measure after the efforts in those schools where you see that there are weaker results. I fully agree that the most unfair thing in Norwegian school is that you can't even out for the students' background. But what's also an interesting aspect is that there's a difference in schools — who can do it, and who can't do it. If you're a boy, if you have parents with low education and start at a school that's best in the country or is located in one of the best school municipalities, you have twice as much chance of completing high school. It is a reality. Yes, local economy is one aspect, but it is not the only aspect. And I have to say that what you've seen since 2013, what you've seen in recent years, is that you get better results. Look at the PIRLS 2016 – it was absolutely amazing what we got from reading studies that show that Norwegian 5th graders read much better, and that those who have had the greatest development are children with low-educated parents and children with a minority background. It says something about putting on basic skills early can work. When SV e.g. Choose to cut 500 million. In continuing training of teachers, it may be nice to have one day a week with oatmeal, but it does not have much to say to those students who need to meet a teacher who can lift them and be professionally up-to-date and who create a good professional community. The priority given to school, which is more important than anything else, is also quite crucial if we are to be able to create a school with less differences between classrooms, between municipalities and between schools. What has been most important to me in this interview has been to lift the responsibility we have nationally, and not least the responsibility of the municipalities locally to follow up the schools that have weak results. I'm not, as I said, concerned about whether you have 3 or 5 averages in a school. I am concerned that the good examples from the schools and municipalities that have succeeded, for example. the municipalities of the north of Hedmark can be disseminated, and that you are constantly engaged in developing the school as a learning organisation. Removing homework is probably a nice slogan, but it won't do anything for the students who need it the most, and it won't do anything for the boy who starts school in the first grade, has parents with low education and already lies a year and a half behind. That's what we need to focus on.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e1725	Once again, I want to thank the interpellant for an important interpellant. This is, of course, about kindergarten and school, but it's also about how we, as a society, are going to be able to maintain sustainability. When you know what skills are required in the Norwegian labour market, you also know how important it is that as many students as possible complete secondary school and receive an education. I'm glad that a lot goes in the right direction in Norwegian school, that the students learn more, that the students are more present, that more complete and exist, and that the bullying goes down. It is important that we look at both the learning environment and the knowledge dissemination. It is quite obvious that safe children who thrive learn more. A couple of issues that came from other parties: first of all, as far as the promise of knowledge is concerned, we now see that there are several who are completing high school. The most promising students are Norwegian-born immigrants and low-educated students. We now succeed better than before in raising those students who have a weak starting point. But we're not on target. This is one of the most important projects. We can't have a school where there's things the students themselves can't do, which determines to what extent they succeed – like how parents are born, how long their parents have, and where the students live. It is also a national responsibility to ensure that the school is so good that all students have the same opportunities. So it's not like that, as claimed by SV, that there are fewer teachers, fewer qualified teachers. No, there will be several qualified teachers. There are now fewer students per teacher than ever in the last ten years. We focus on the content and quality of teaching at the same time as we contribute to more teachers who can see the individual students. I notice that the SV and the left-hand side argue against transparency, against carrying out screening tests that allow you to lift and see the students who are struggling or getting hung behind, and that you are not particularly happy with the follow-up system either. I believe it is a big problem when some students receive one year of less education because they are born in one municipality and not in another. It's a national challenge. Without transparency, without defining a lower limit of quality, neither do we have the ability to identify those schools or to raise them. It's not about hanging someone out and getting the best and the worst. It's about all students having the same opportunities, no matter where they live.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e1740	The debate on substance is closed. 6 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e1758	We have to set big targets. We need to save the climate, we need to take care of nature, which is the basis of our lives, we need to create jobs, and we need to make money – and that is possible. Of course, it's possible along the coast, but it's also possible in the inland. That's what we have to do now if the future is to be safe. If we want to do that, we can't keep going in the same track as we do now. The tools we have, both to take care of the natural basis we have, and to get the necessary nutritional effort up, are not working well enough. In the spring, the State of the Interior had a large meeting with industry – the major economic actors in both soil and forest and the biotechnology environment – and the big business of investing in bioeconomy in the Inland. There we reviewed, among other things. The SINTEF report entitled ‘Gold in Green Forests?’ received good updates from the large and important economic operators working with different parts of the bioeconomy, such as soil, forest and biotechnology. The industry told us that now we had to start and lubricate the food package for our grandchildren, because that was what this was all about. In Hedmark and Uppland, we have both raw materials and competences in agriculture, forestry and biotechnology. The raw materials are renewable, and the possibilities are many, but it is too slow to bring up an overall investment in new jobs in our area. That's why people are also skeptical about protecting nature and climate action, because you don't think it's about creating jobs that can solve the problem. But it does. Norway needs to create hundreds of thousands of new jobs to replace those currently in the oil industry. Everyone knows that. We have to have other legs to stand on. And it's urgent, because climate change is huge, and Norway is far from achieving the goals we've set, namely that we should cut 60 pst. of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030. We must contribute to the existence of many of the jobs that can be created by these greenhouse gas cuts, including inland ports, where these raw materials I have mentioned exist. The jobs we will live on in the future must be renewable and climate-friendly, nature-friendly and environmentally friendly. They must be creative, and we must be able to make money on them. Swallowing if we have these large resources, the environments of competence and ownership in these industries are so that this does not happen by itself. These industries are not like the oil industry. Nor is it the case when Norway developed hydropower, with large point investments. These are very many small owners who together need to see that it is possible to create sustainable and renewable jobs. My question to the government is, are they aware that there must be other instruments than those we have today? Because it was all at the collection we had with the big nutritionists in the Inland and politicians of all colors, from both sides of the Mjøsa. Everyone saw it. Everyone thought that if we keep going the way we did before, we don't get to this. I am therefore challenging the government to agree to the changes that need to be made. It is about tax changes, research resources, skills development and education. In particular, it is also a question of State risk relief for the industry and the economic operators to be included in it. SV has addressed this many times, and now the other parties also have to show that this is not just a talk. There has to be an end to talk about business neutrality and unpriority tax credits, which are not targeted at achieving either a vital shift from oil to renewables or at obtaining a necessary investment in industrial workplaces in Norway based on renewable resources. The oil industry has received billions in risk relief over time. It's worked. Now we have to turn this risk-absorbing into renewable and environmentally friendly industrial inputs. I went online today to read the ‘State Report for Higher Education 2019’, which I think came yesterday. It also monitors how industry and business invest. The oil companies spend six billion dollars. kr for research. The government spends almost 600 million dollars. NOK, as far as I could see from the tables, and SEK 600 million. kr extra on the TAX FUNN scheme. There is no sign of a green shift in that report, as far as I could see. I hope the Council of State can refer to other numbers, because what we need is to twist the research effort and the development effort to what we're going to live on. I don't know how many times I've heard representatives of many parties say that what we can make of oil, we can also make of wood. Yes, we can, but it's not going to get off the hook when we just talk about it. We actually have to add a lot of government involvement on the table to get that added. Then you cannot continue as you have done, and spend a lot of money researching oil, which we have to step down. We need to research renewables, for example: how we can process the timber – because you can. But we have to take both the forest and the earth in a thousand-year perspective. That's the common good, and that's the natural foundation we all live by. We were given a UN report – a few days ago as well – that shows the seriousness of this. But it is also the opportunity we have to demonstrate – if we can do this well in Norway and in Hedmark – that the operations we have meet high environmental and natural requirements. It's a quality stamp on our raw materials that we can develop more. Then we beat many flies in one taste: We have good contributions to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, we have good contributions to improve the natural basis, quality and diversity of our natural resources, whether it be soil or forest, and we can create the jobs we're going to live on. There is a trend in the forest industry towards more and more flatlands and operations that are not fully compatible with biodiversity and a balanced nature. The timber we now harvest in Hedmark, you drive – to put it that way – everything that suits and clothes can hold, out of the country to create jobs in other countries. It is not just Norway that is thinking about new jobs in the future. On the contrary, many countries are in front of us in this area. They have a lot of volume and are now developing a lot of exciting and new technology based on our raw materials. It can't be a situation that the government thinks is satisfactory. I've worked my soul to get both better railways and more timber terminals, but it can't be that we're now going to build rail with both hands to drive even more of our raw materials out of our areas, and that there won't be any jobs where we live. In soil, Hedmark and Uppland have the largest resources for food production, and there is an incredible amount of exciting related to biotechnology there. There are also major opportunities for cooperation — which are also being exploited today — related to maritime industries. These things are very close together, because everything is biological material. Therefore, much of the knowledge and peaking skills developed here can also be used in what is to be done in ocean-based industries. Of course, it's also incredibly important that you not only develop it, but also take care of the quality of the sea, so that it doesn't get broken. The question is: does the Council see this, and will he be involved in change?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e1794	This I think is a very good interpellation. The short answer is yes, but it's not like we're starting with this right now, because there's a lot going on here. I hope the representative, Andersen, can clarify what is happening to the TaxFUNN proceeds. I think it's in between 4 billion. kr and 5 brd. NOK, but it is possible that I misunderstood and heard a little error about the numbers here. Taking the Inland as a starting point, there is an area of amazing natural resources and long industrial history where there is an incredible amount of exciting happening. For example, Hunton Fiber has built new factory in Gjøvik, obtained new, automated production methods that have reduced costs and they have brought back production from Poland. Before we talked about "offshoring" and "outsourcing" and that we lose – now we bring things home. Mjøstårnet, now being built, is a commercial project, but it is also an exhibition project for Norwegian wood industry, for Norwegian wood processing and for the use of wood as construction material. It's 85.4 meters high, built with Moelven glues and brings international attention. Recently, Shelterwood, which is a company set up by Norwegian Forest Capital, Borregaard, Norwegian Forest, Forest Fire and Investinor, thus state venture capital, made its first investment in just three related industries. All of this is supported not only by the government's general industrial effort, but also by the government's investment in bioeconomy. We're going to be a leading industrial and technology nation, and we're going to be because we're already today. We have a proud industrial history to build on, but we have to become even greener, even smarter and even more innovative. Our industry is going to be sustainable. We must have good market access. We must have access to capital, including private capital. We must have good infrastructure, research and instruments that trigger value creation and profitable jobs. The starting point for the general industrial policy – I am asked to note that I am not saying business policy in general, because it is this government that has relaunched industrial policy through the first industrial communication since 1981, which was presented in 2017 – is good, but globalisation, technological development and climate challenges make us face new challenges. If you look at Norwegian industry at the same time, you'll be fine. Turnover is going well, value added is going well, employment is going well, jobs are getting more, investments are going up, and industry's optimism is at a clearly rising rate. Then we have to make sure that we do not destroy it by, among other things, spending too much money on public budgets that puts this into play. In the Industrial Communication, the government launched an offensive industrial policy in which we, among others, introduced new and long-lasting instruments such as the catapult scheme. Test centres are established throughout Norway, where entrepreneurs, established companies and research communities can work together to pilot and test different new technologies and products. So we have faith in the industry. We also have faith in forest-related industries and the wood processing industry. In this context, it is also worth mentioning fiscal policy. It is quite right that the big tax havens have benefited most people, ordinary people, but also to a large extent business, and that is all business. For example, reducing corporation tax from 28 pst. until 22 pst. – which at least the Socialist Left Party is against, as far as I know – something that benefits all business. In the case of taxes on wealth, which are so often distributed in this room: if you do not see that, in particular, the forest industry — in particular, wood processing as well, but it is a separate forest tax regime — one of the industries that is concerned with the general relationship between wealth value and income is missing out on something. We have also launched new tools, such as: offer to extend export guarantees to export-related investments in Norway, including: facilitates large-scale industrial investment. I want to now brush a little bit closer into the forest and wood industry, which is part of the larger bioeconomy. In 2016, we presented a bioeconomic strategy for sustainability, efficient and profitable production of biological resources. Then one of the most important points was that we had to strengthen this industry in the long term. We did that in several different ways. First of all, money came directly. There was 100 million. kr in the budget. However, it is also the case that our instrument — Innovation Norway, the Norwegian Research Council and Siva — has followed up on this by making their own joint action plan, and it is producing results. Estimatedly, Innovation uses Norway around 3 billion. SEK in grants and loans for bioeconomy-related activities, that is approximately. One million. SEK in grants for bioeconomy-related activity through the Norwegian Research Council and around 250 million. kr to property and corporate investment directly or indirectly targeted at the bioeconomy through Siva. It is also important, because in addition to the overall industrial policy, we are also a government looking at individual industries where Norway has a particularly good starting point. Transport is also crucial. It was not mentioned in the text of the interpellation itself, but it is essential for the forestry and wood industry and for the rest of the industry. The appropriations for transport have increased by nearly 75 pst. since 2013. The maintenance drivage on the road and track is significantly reduced. The initiative also increases the competitiveness of the forest industry, which is a heavy transport user. Better forestry networks and timber markets, together with the further development of public roads and railways, contribute to reduced transport costs and increased competition in the forest and wood industries. Once again, to draw a thread from the overall policy, which is good for everyone, quite concretely to the forest industry, it can also be mentioned that a total of 195 million have been allocated. kr for forest roads and timber marques in 2018. It's a huge increase in the appropriations for that purpose since we got into government. Bioeconomy is exciting precisely because it is also related to the green shift. Together with Norwegian industry, through Process21 – a strategic forum to look at how the process industry can contribute to the transition to a low-carbon society – we have been committed to bringing the industries together, because private business is part of the solution for the green shift. At the same time, it's also important what we do, and, among other things, what we do. by strengthening schemes such as the Eco-Technology Facility for Innovation Norway, which have increased from 260 million. SEK in 2016 to SEK 565.5 million. In 2019, we provide important grants for pilot and demonstration projects to contribute to the commercialisation of innovative solutions based on environmental technologies, inter alia. in the forestry and woodworking industries. I'm not going to go into biofuels and their requirements in this context, but it's also a contribution. To conclude, climate change and climate commitments will lead to future industrial development. At the same time, it's important that we use the natural advantages we have. Forests, woodland and knowledge that lie both in the modern forest industry and in the wood processing industry are excellent examples of this. Advanced use of timber contributes to profitable jobs, but also contributes to the green shift if we do it right. This may include, inter alia: offer good substitutes for fossil alternatives with much lower carbon footprint — and in some cases negative carbon footprint. We see a number of examples of the use of wood and biological resources as raw materials in industrial production. We see, for example: use of wood in construction works, as I mentioned at the outset. Norwegian forest has an important role to play in the green shift. Industry based on biological resources is in a unique position to seize the opportunities that lie there, both to reduce climate emissions and create a more sustainable economy and to provide jobs and revenues. The answer to the interpellation is yes, the government will be there. My message is that we're already doing well, but of course we're not done in any way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e1832	I thank you for the answer, but I have to say I am a little measured and waiting for what was said. One is that, through his intervention, the Minister of Industry now shows that he has not understood the seriousness of the climate challenges we have, and the urgency with which we need to change and work. Nor does he understand that once we have faced such major, serious challenges as we are now, the change in the economy has not occurred without greater political grip and active political direction of industrialisation. Governments are ramming up businesses and things that have happened in Hedmark and Uppland. Yeah, we're aware of it, we've been talking about it for years, we, and looking at it; we know about it, and we've been with these people. It is precisely those people who were at the joint meeting that was at Hamar, who said that the effort we have now is not enough for them to seize the opportunity, as the Council of State says. There must be greater changes and, in particular, there must be a focus on skills. Mr. Hunton, as the Council of State said, called for a statement of competence in his field. So in concrete terms, can the government think of putting more money into it? Then it's the research page. I have the state report here, and it shows that Norwegian research communities report three to four times more petroleum-related research and development than renewables. It must be turned on its head quite quickly, and research on non-renewable should be stepped down. We can't keep doing that. It's to say that we're using the money on what everyone knows we have to stop with. One area of all these industries mentioned was risk relief. We're now talking about companies that are good at international level, that get a lot more, but we need a bigger investment to get a lot more jobs based on the raw materials we have, not just that they're going abroad and being industrialized there, and that those that get this skills development. The oil industry has received high risk relief from the state. It has proved to be very effective, and many have dared to take the risk. We have to now look at how we can turn risk-absorption into these industries. Politicians are not going to decide what industry or what kind of products to produce, but we have to say that we are willing to share the risk with them in order to develop the climate-friendly and environmentally friendly jobs that we can live on in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e1845	First of all, it is true that, especially in the postwar period, there was some industrial travel in Norway. A new industry was built, but it was also so that that system kind of collapsed in the 1970s. Why did it do that? Well, it broke down simply because there were more and more businesses that did not deliver money into the treasury, but they depended on getting money out. So it turned out that the system, with such great and heavy state involvement as you had at the time – which I do not automatically say Andersen wants to go back to, even if you can sometimes suspect it, but I do not say it – did not work. Then there has been a long period in which at least the paper has spoken about the concept of 'nutritional policy'. As far as I know, it appeared for the first time in one of the Stoltenberg government documents. But the truth is that we've never had a business-neutral policy in the sense that we're only concerned with the overall instruments. If we had a business-neutral policy, we wouldn't have had a bio-economic strategy, then we wouldn't have had our own commitment to it, which involves our whole tool, and which they follow up. Then we had not had our own sea bet, for that matter, and we had not provided our own industrial message, the first since 1981. My point is that we have a toolbox; we have a toolbox that is partly there for all business, and then we have a toolbox that in some areas is aimed at just the forest industry and the wood processing industry, which has some special challenges. So I think it's important to challenge maybe the Socialist Left Party on the rest of the policy, because the tax level of business has a lot to say, the tax level of wealth has a lot to say, for example. are forest owners, transport policy and how much use is made of, among other things. road – although it is also important – has a lot to say, the CO 2 compensation scheme and the fact that there is a good, internationally anchored system for Norwegian industry not to be competed with by strange environmental requirements without contributing to overall reductions in emissions has a lot to say. In all these areas, SV has traditionally been on the wrong side. Traditionally, SV has never been a party that has been concerned with improving the conditions of private business. Finally, a question of competence, which is absolutely crucial, for the way this industry has evolved for decades, involves the need for more research and expertise, with important contributions from, for example: NMBU. So the answer to whether we're going to bet more on competence is yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e1861	Over the last few years, Norway has perhaps been one of the world’s most well-equipped countries in several areas to make a large-scale industrial journey based on forests. We have raw materials, and the prices of raw materials have been beneficial to the industry for a long time. The interest rates have been low, the exchange rate has been favourable to the industry, and there are a lot of good ideas, because good research is done, so there is no lack of projects to start with that is the challenge. At the top of this, and as a fifth point, Norway may be even better geographically located in order to achieve a good development of the export-oriented industry based in the forest. When we have such good assumptions, it's very interesting to see what the numbers show. How does the actual development of Norway go overall, overall? There's a lot of good work out there in a lot of companies, we have skilled workers, and there are good examples around. But those examples should have been even more, so that the workplaces increased. In Sweden, before the financial crisis, the level of new investment in the real capital industry has now passed, so it is now higher in 2019 than it was in 2008. In Norway, the opposite is true. We're still well behind new investments in industry now, and we've been stable for just over 20 billion. kr in the last few years. In Sweden, there is so much investment in forest-based industry that only that part of Sweden’s industry invests almost half of the mainland industry in Norway – all industries combined. This shows with such a clear language that it is possible to communicate, that there is something missing to trigger the needs we have for more jobs both in the Netherlands and in Norway in general. Then it's clear that to get this equation to go up, it needs to capitalize. As the policy is rigged today, the capital is not supposed to come to the level that we are now talking about that we are dependent on for a better social development. We have to be honest and say that we have some arrangements that are good, but not at the level that we want here. For example, we met several companies on the common day we had with the county councillor in Inland, who said: Yes, we can apply for Innovation Norway, but when we talk about the larger projects, we often get back in response that this is too risky, this becomes too big for us. That is why policy by our side, from government and growth, is not, by today's date, well directed towards the larger projects. The national assembly of the Labour Party has taken on board the clear consequences of this. We have now created our own programme with a special focus on industrial district policy, and in our district manifesto we have some completely new approaches that will contribute to positive development in bioeconomy. Firstly, we have now decided that we want to put in place mechanisms to reduce the risk of industrial construction in the bioeconomy and new industries. Secondly, we say that Enova needs to become a clearer tool in industrial policy, because we know that a new industry – or a green shift, as it is often said – cannot only be imported; it must be developed on the contrary. That is why we believe that Enova must also be given a mandate to become even more powerful on behalf of the industry in Norway, that it is not just saved power that should be the target. Then we say clearly that we must have a proper industrial fund for the major industrial investments in Norway, so that the next time you have an idea and go to the instrument tool, you will not be told that this is too risky and too big, but you will hear: yes, this needs Norway and our welfare state.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e1876	It is not just the Inland that already shows the great potential of a green new deal for Norway, where the bioeconomy is already an important industry and can become an even more important industry for the country. In Eastfold we know and see how the woodworking industry has been extremely important to our history, but is also important now – and not least can become even more important in the future. In Sarpsborg we have Borregaard, an industrial enterprise with a long and proud history. Today, Borregaard produces high-tech timber products. This may include, inter alia: replace a good proportion of oil-based products. So this industrial enterprise employs about 800 people only at home in Sarpsborg. In Halden we have Norwegian Forest Saugbruks. They also operate with an advanced form of woodworking industry, not least they use 99.8 pst. renewable energy in its activities, and they have nearly 500 employees. These are examples of green industry further processing the raw materials we have in this country, further processing the timber that we have built a lot of food on throughout history. Instead of exporting raw materials, we use them here to create jobs. The potential is much greater, but the green industry does not just happen by itself. I could also have listed Peterson in Moss on this list of woodworking industries in Eastfold, also an enterprise with a long and proud history. It was founded on the 1850s, but was bankrupt in 2012, shortly after a purchase, after having a long-term ownership for over 100 years before that. So it turns out there's still something to go back to the active industrial policy, if we're actually going to take full advantage of our potential. Now, Saugbrugs in Halden is in the middle of a crisis that makes it all very topical. Despite the fact that the company uses 99.8 pst. renewable energy, they do not receive full CO2 compensation. Their application has been rejected – on a failed basis, I believe – and that means they lose almost 80 million. kr. It is deeply serious for the nearly 500 employees who go to work there every day. Therefore, SV's position is clear: we need to review the refusal and provide good framework conditions for the important green industry company that is Saugbruks. I believe that when we have this interpellation debate that we actually have, the Minister of Industry should answer what is a well-known case, and that has been addressed in several questions – whether the government now wants to save these nearly 500 green jobs. But we have to do far more. We must not just defend the green industry we already have; we must also have a new, large-scale green industry travel, simply because the climate and environmental crisis requires it from us. So we're going to have to halve our emissions in eleven years. It's a massive challenge. We've never faced anything like this, and it's urgent. If we're going to have something to live with and not least a planet to live on, it means that we can't just cut ourselves out of the climate crisis; we also have to build ourselves out of the crisis. That's why SV will have a green, new deal using the state's muscles and ownership to build up new industries, make long-term capital available to contribute and take risks, turn the tax system from speculation to production, and not least point out some national key industries that we're going to put extra emphasis on with all the available tools we have. The bioeconomy, including the woodworking industry, is such a key industry. We need more funding for research and development, so that we can have several of the conversion successes that Borregaard is an example of. We need access to long-term capital to develop the industry, and then government business policy must contribute to taking risks. Not least we need to do something about transport because 20 pst. the costs of the wood processing industry are linked to it. Then we have to build up the railroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e1899	Finally, I would like to challenge the Council of States once again whether he really understands the seriousness of the major change we have to make, and which we have to go through quickly, because we have to cut greenhouse gas emissions, and because we are now running our raw material out of the country, so that the jobs that could have been in Norway end up somewhere else. It's one of the problems, because I understand that people are worried when we're going to cut greenhouse gas emissions, if we don't at the same time ensure that there are some jobs that can live off. There is no good signal, and the Council of State has a great responsibility to understand the seriousness and to launch new, more effective instruments to get this going. Then we have to turn the tax policy upside down. It currently favors property, petroleum and finance. We have to get it to favor new green industry. Does the Council of State think that's right? We need to look at injunctions and bans to give priority to climate-friendly and environmentally friendly products. Is that what the Council of State wants? We need to impose stringent environmental and climate requirements, more stringent than today, on all public procurement. Is that what the Council of State wants? Does the Council of State want us to establish risk relief, as these business environments ask us, because they see that they cannot realise the possibilities they have today, within the regime we have? I hear the Council of State is trying to get risk relief to sound like something that was going on in the 1970s. I can assure you it's not about that. This is about modern, high-tech industry, and the role of the state here is to secure the infrastructure to which it is going and the risk relief that must be in place to trigger this. Within both soil and forest, the ownership structure is very, very fragmented. There are not large industrialists behind it, there are many small producers. So this is a completely different way of thinking about getting up the necessary volume, and there the state has to play a much more active role than what it's doing today. Unfortunately, I'm not much more optimistic about this interpellation debate – either a little disappointed, maybe, because there are no more parties that choose to participate in it, because this is so very important. This is incredibly important for the Inland, which cannot, in the same way as the coast, take part in all the exciting things that can happen related to the coast, but we have a tab of it through bio-economy cooperation, which is high-tech and which is good. But it's urgent, because the climate is changing rapidly, and people need work. Business has to make money, and we don't do it here, someone else is doing it somewhere else.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e1910	First, thank you for an exciting discussion. There's going to be an interpellation afterwards, which affects something of the same thing, so we get a chance to continue the discussion then. I had also hoped that it would be a little bit more from, yes, the parties that are not here, to say it like that. One does not get an industrial policy simply by repeating that one should have an active industrial policy, especially when one does not go in and look at all the framework conditions that actually have something to say for industry in Norway. I'm going to try to go in and say something about the more specific things, but just one general consideration first: we do have risk relief systems today. A great deal of our tool is built for that very thing. Then there's a real question of how much investment the country is going to have in individual businesses. We have also had systems for that. Investinor has e.g. It's a mission. They've also got 500 million. they must invest in the forest industry, under market conditions – it must be, otherwise it will be subsidies and not investment – and have invested 200 million. NOK of this money until now. I think there is a bad business policy in sum if the state is going to go in and take enormous risks in some areas and thus risk losing a lot of money instead of building up a business policy that allows more industries to grow. I agree that we should point out some industries that are particularly important to Norway; that is why the government is promoting, for example. the marine industry. But it's a problem when you, like, the party leader of the Workers' Party points to six winning industries. The first question that comes up then is why there are no more there. Where were, for example, maritime food industry, our second largest export industry? Where was the health industry, which many of us believe has great potential? In concrete terms: Saugbruk's complaint about the reduction in CO 2 compensation in 2013. They were then refused because they had a long-term power contract. Then they complained again in 2018, because the parent company went bankrupt, to the Environment Directorate. This matter is dealt with by the Environment Directorate, which gives the high priority, but as usual in such matters, I cannot go into the details of it. This is not within my department either, but I have a lot of understanding that an exciting company – such as Saugbruks is – that gets a lot, wants this. It was a question of green public procurement. We have just made a big message where it is one of the main points. I would also like to mention that in the big review of the whole tool tool is one of the things we're looking at, precisely whether we're rusted enough to be able to take on larger and more complicated projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e1928	The debate on substance is closed. Seven is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e1946	It's quite right, I've chosen to lift up an industry that maybe isn't the one we're discussing the most, not even in the nutrition committee. The clothing industry is the fourth largest in the world and is among the most polluting industries in the world. Production has doubled in the last 15 years, and industry is converting worldwide for $1.3 billion. But international reports also show that more than 500 billion. US dollars are lost every year because of underutilisation of clothing and lack of recycling. The industry is also characterised by unworthy employment in many countries, but at the same time it represents one of the few job options for both adults and children in many low-cost countries. In the postwar period, the Norwegian textile industry was the country's largest value creator. Teko was the largest association in Norwegian Industry, and 1963 was the top year. Since then, the decline has been rapid, as a result of increased globalisation and the liberalisation of trade agreements. Today, we have a few surviving industrial businesses, especially in the West, which are also doing very well – solid and well-known businesses such as Dale of Norway, Oleana and Janus. The oldest factories are, of course, located where the power was deployed. The industry was also built in Denmark and Sweden, but our two neighbouring countries were able to develop a commercial, design-oriented fashion industry. In Sweden, the industry has become the second largest export industry and in Denmark the fourth largest. Her & Mauritz is internationally best known, while the Varner group, including Cubus, Dressmann and Bik Bok, are the largest in the Nordic region. The same trend did not occur in Norway. We found the oil! That might be a little bit of an explanation. Global technology is characterised by fundamental weaknesses such as the deflagration of production processes, intriguing global value chains, over-exploitation and poor use of resources. The failure of the industrial system is extensive and the profitability and reputation are decreasing. Conversion is necessary and the most immediate solution is in the circular economy. In 2009, the Norwegian Fashion Institute was established, in close dialogue with the Ministry of Industry and Trade and Innovation Norway. The association became part of Abelia in 2013 and gained cluster status in 2014. The association currently represents a significant network of enterprises, ranging from large international groups such as the Varner Group to small entrepreneurs, as well as educational institutions and national and international partners. The industry is divided into three industries: we have the creative industries, like the design and fashion industries, we have the industrial production itself, and we have the trade. There's a close interaction between the three. The trade is hard hit these days, and 80 pst. the environmental load is determined in the design phase. Digitalisation goes into all three parts of the tea industry. Digitisation changes production methods and interaction with consumers. The global fashion and textile industry is changing radically. Technological innovation, environmental threats and new digital business models change the established production system. Developments are creating market failures – especially because we in Norway lack a strong link between industry, business, education and research. If we are to assert ourselves internationally, we must facilitate a stronger industrial and technology anchoring in Norway. We have to close the gap between design, production, and distribution. Enterprises and educational and research institutions need to be well structured and encouraged to work directly in the value chain. New business models are under development, based on a new consumption pattern of services such as rental and subscription through digital platforms. Changes in consumption result in new definitions of growth and profitability. This presents new challenges for industry and business. There is a need for research that can contribute to new insights, knowledge development and, in particular, to empowerment. It is a challenge today that many enterprises produce volume in low-cost countries, they are without access to industrial infrastructure in Norway, and thus have little developed testing and development facilities in their own activities. It provides very little flexibility in the value chain, creates overproduction and has significant environmental and economic consequences. Norwegian Fashion Hub has addressed these challenges. There is a great deal of interest among businesses. There is cooperation with research environments, several of the member companies are involved in projects, and there is good contact with the few educational institutions we have left in the area. I want to highlight OsloMet in particular. Although the environment is small, we have a good starting point for creating a new, forward-looking and sustainable growth industry. Norway still has a technology industry that has been able to survive — despite strong global competition — and we have fashion and design environments that claim to be international. Digitalisation and new production technologies create new opportunities. 3D design and product simulation coupled to, for example, fully automated 3D knitting machines create new industrial methods. The development of sustainable consumption models offers new opportunities for production in Norway. The main goal of Norwegian Fashion Hub is to develop Norwegian fashion to become a leading, sustainable and value-creating industry. The ambition is to create a leading industry that shows the way in the transition to a sustainable society. Success requires the provision of new cooperation models and the development of physical infrastructure. Oslo Textile Lab shall be a national competence centre for the fashion and textile industry, where design, production and innovation can be met to develop and test new opportunities. The question is: how will the Council of State contribute to sustainable development and strengthen the design and development processes of businesses, with access to just testing and development facilities?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e1986	I, too in this debate, want to start with just a few examples. Because it's a problem for us who think that broad national schemes are among the most important things in innovation policy, that sometimes it can seem like it just gets lost in something. And when you say that this is something that benefits all industries, it's not so easy to see it, because it seems like everyone – and therefore nobody – benefits. But let me take two examples from two schemes that have been strongly strengthened during the last period. One is BIA, the User-Controlled Innovation Arena, which has increased from about 400 million. NOK 600 million. kr, and the second is SkattenFUNN, which can become even more unbureaucratic, but it is at least our simplest support scheme. Helly Hansen has, for example, have been granted FUNN support for the digitisation of garments, for projects around it. Industrieskinn AS has received support from the User-driven Innovation Arena to develop the future protective clothing for melting plant workers, in cooperation with SINTEF. Helly Hansen has received support from User-led innovation arenas for workwear for women in human-dominated professions. Hansen Protection has received support from the User-Controlled Innovation Arena for insulation and phase change clothing materials. The Janus factory has received the TaxFUNN refund for flame-retardant and antistatic wool, fabric and clothing. These are just a few examples that show that the tools we have, actually hit this industry as well. The industry we have today is competitive and viable, but it's probably a good thing for Norway that this is no longer one of our biggest industries. And – speaking of the debates we often have on industrial policy – the crucial prerequisite for us to have the economy we have today, and the level of welfare and wealth, is precisely this development between industries, which has been going on ever since industrialization and long before, but such as that. has made the textile industry today smaller, but still viable, and other industries have grown. The representative, Mr Grung, addresses an interesting but also comprehensive and complex theme, for it is about several different things – new technologies and new ways of organising production, while emphasising sustainable production. I have already mentioned the government's ambitions in industrial policy, and there are greener, smarter and more innovative key chords. I also have to add here that the industrial arrows are pointing up, so 2019 seems to be a good year. The Norwegian textile, clothing and leather industries were, as mentioned, a significant part of the industry in Norway. If we go back to the 1970s, there were about 37,000 employees in this part of the industry. Today there are about 5,000 employees, representing 2.2 pst. employment and a slightly lower share of value added in industry. However, although the volume of production from this industry in Norway has decreased, there is good reason to stress that we still have more good enterprises, and – interestingly enough – that we can also track increased optimism in this sector of industry. 2018 has also been a good year. Therefore, I have the same starting point as the representative Ruth Grung – there are opportunities for increased development and production in Norway. For the tech industry, too, the width and sum of conditions are crucial. It doesn't help if we, as elected representatives, strengthen a small system with one hand, while making it more difficult for all traders with the other hand. It also affects the companies in the technology industry. Access to capital, business-promoting tax incentives, research, innovation, technology development, competences – this is just as important for an industry with 5,000 employees as it is for an industry with 50,000 or 200,000 employees. I just want to mention, once again, the example of corporate tax, because when it decreases from 28 to 22 pst, it benefits all businesses. In the case of property taxes: If you look at it – and this is a thoughtful example – that someone should start a new business in the textile, design, in this industry, the problem is that if your business becomes worth a lot, but goes with a deficit, you have to take out money from your company to pay an unwise tax. If you sell it to American, German, Japanese or Chinese owners instead, they don't pay a red ear of this treasure into the Norwegian common fund. The Teco industry has many small enterprises and relatively few medium-sized enterprises, so they depend on spending their time on this too. The simplification work of the government is also crucial. We're going to save another 10 billion by 2021. kr – on top of the 15 billion saved for private business already today. I also want to say that when we are working on a strategy for small and medium-sized enterprises, where we, among other things, are. look at how the tools we have today meet these businesses – because there is a difference between doing a small textile business with ten employees and doing a business with 3,000 employees, and there is a difference between having a HR department or having one who spends little time on it alongside other things – and we are busy with profitability. Exports and market profiling abroad become an important theme, which is important for this industry, and innovation and growth. I fully agree with Mr Grung that the circular economy is a crucial concept. Norway shall be a leading country in the development of a green circular economy, which makes better use of resources. In the Granavolden Declaration, we have warned that we are going to develop a national strategy on circular economy, and that is what is going on. From the Ministry of Economic Affairs, we have also made a contribution by sending out a proposal for consultation in connection with the Consumer Trade Act, on whether a law that was introduced when online commerce was trading and putting the goods into a network, and not trading online, which today still has the right of life in the form it has. So it's like the textile and clothing industry doesn't get too much detail from politicians. Nor do we have separate ear-marked nutritional instruments reserved for this industry – I do not think that is necessary. At the same time, we need to be involved in building up, for example. clusters and networks. Innovation Norway has had good cooperation over several years with parts of the tea industry and helped support networks and clusters, such as Norwegian Fashion Hub and Oslo Textile Lab. Now you have, among other things, facilitating more innovative and sustainable ways of producing through the opportunities offered by new design and production technologies. The catapult system, which is one of the new tools launched by the government in the industrial notification, will also be used for the tea industry, for example. in the development of new production technologies, 3D design and product simulation. Finally, I would like to mention the activities of DOGA to promote design-driven innovation and the design-driven innovation programme scheme, which is also available to the tea industry. DOGA and Innovation Norway were assigned in 2018 to coordinate and cooperate in their export and profiling work and to see their relevant programmes and instruments in the context. It has, among other things, as a result of a new export programme to strengthen Norwegian brands in Germany, and I believe it is important that we gain experience from that coordination to see if we can get an even stronger export profiling with the tools we have, than what we get today. Companies producing textiles are among those qualified for this project, i.e. the German project. When the pilot project is completed, we will see how it can be further developed and improved. To sum up, I believe that there is no lack of instruments for this industry, and I believe that they are making, that the arrangements we have are relevant and successful, and that we have made provision for better conditions for the tea industry as well. At the same time, I am concerned that we should have an even better instrument, not least for small and medium-sized enterprises. Therefore, the major review of the whole instrument, which is planned to be completed by 2020, is important, including in the context of this interpellation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e2024	There were fewer speakers than in the previous interview, but I haven't mobilized either, because I think this is the start. I don't think so many people have thought about Teko. I've met them, and it was one of the most forward-looking environments I've ever been in. They're in that excitement, in a mixture of everything they've done. Because they have managed to build this environment across borders, they have also submitted good applications and received commitments, whether it is Sintef or others. They're there. Closer links are being established between the design environment, the manufacturing environment and the new ways of meeting consumers. You start renting – like here in the city, where you rent dresses, etc. – but you can also shape the clothes you need and produce them locally through 3D. That's not 4.0, but maybe 5.0. We're actually moving much faster in this small environment than in large parts of other industries. The exciting thing is to be the pilot who manages it. The nutrition committee was in Denmark to look at the health industry, because they are in front of us in order to coordinate funds and how they build up the clustering. This environment had already implemented just that way itself – they take in environments, give them top support, dedicate and have role clearance, while they say that you don't succeed, it's out. While we're holding on for quite a long time with quite a lot of people who don't really have that opportunity. We have to connect these. And I just have to say that the nutrition committee has been on Ekorenes, and they're assessing 3D-restriction of furniture coatings in the future. That means you get tecos that meet the furniture industry. When I met Oleana, it turned out that Nike wears knitted suits in the cover of her shoes, and they have dust sucked the world for all programmers in knitted or crocheted. So you have to build dedicated competence. This is my recommendation. When we have these points, which are so forward-looking, it doesn't fit into much of the tempo, and you don't ask for special arrangements like this, but when they're so forward-looking, they need to be seen, get to be a spearhead, and through it clear how to change in other areas, because here there's quite a transfer value in a lot of areas. Everyone wears clothes – mostly – and the consumption of clothes goes up. The interest in buying clothes and ordering clothes online is an area I think goes much faster than we thought. In conclusion, linking research closer into the value chain means that the Council of State, as a former Minister of Education, is also interested in.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e2035	I am very interested in connecting value creation and industry closer to research. It's important. I really don't disagree with any of what Mr. Grung says, and I'm thinking of a good operationalization. I have to invite you to a meeting with the tech industry. Some of the thinking behind the way we have built up the instrument is that it should be simple and flexible to support under initiatives that come. There's this balance sheet, between the political election and what's going on out there, it's important to get it right. If there is too much emphasis on political choice, there is a risk that there is no room for what is growing, industries that are not high on the radar or have no strong speakers, but where there are great and exciting opportunities. I can also mention that next to the business, we will also come back to some of the more ethical aspects of this. The government has, among other things: said that we should look at a modern anti-slavery law, and we are also in the big news of public acquisitions concerned that the public should be a good buyer that takes into account both the environment and employee rights. This is an industry that – if you look at the media at least, and that is not necessarily the case with the Norwegian players, but with the major international players – has a lot of spots on it, as most of us have brought with it in recent years.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e2044	The debate on substance is closed. Eight is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e2062	We are facing and in the middle of the green shift – shifted from black to green, from fossil to renewable carbon. We have our blue fields in the sea that sell large amounts of carbon, as well as plant crops in the fields. Mother soil needs our attention, and there must be an economic basis for building green industries, green jobs and a greener society. Bioeconomy is about replacing fossil inputs with renewables. What action we take will be crucial to how we deal with climate change, while at the same time it is central to value creation and jobs in Norway and the world in the future. The government presented the Bioeconomy Strategy ‘Known Resources — Unusual Opportunities’ in 2016 to promote increased value creation and employment, contribute to greenhouse gas reductions and provide more efficient and sustainable use of renewable biological resources. The ambitions are great and in line with Stortinget's wishes. But what about the concrete measures? It is great that a bioeconomy strategy came in 2016, but a strategy is just a strategy, full of fine words, as long as there is no action plan. There has been a waste of bureaucratic work, poor social economy and false hopes for those actors who work every day for solutions in the bioeconomy, if the promises are not followed up. I wonder if any of these really great opportunities we have are going to play because the government is taking too little credit. We need clear incentives, tools and actions to produce the results we need. In Norway, there are plans for the development of biofuels, for the construction of biocarbon plants and for the production of bioplastics. Several biogas projects are on the stairs. Why doesn't it happen faster? How does the Council of State want to go from words on sheets to action and value creation? If we correct the production of materials correctly, we can reuse all the goods we use, either to create new products or to create inputs in agriculture and forestry. Climate change, both in the atmosphere and in the temperature, leads to faster and more frequent growth of biomass. Now we have to make better use of these resources, and we have to build industry in Norway. Many reports have been produced to demonstrate the potential of the bioeconomy. The Nordic region has its own bioeconomy strategy, county municipalities like Hedmark and Oppland have, regions like the Gjøvik region have developed it across municipalities, and individual municipalities like Øystre Slider rate on bioenergy. In addition to our state bioeconomy strategy, the government and the whole industry launched SKOG 22, the NHO has presented the biovalue report ‘Towards the Bioeconomy’, and in the work on green competitiveness there are many reports, road maps and arrows pointing towards the bioeconomy. The domestic economy is driven by forward-looking actors, available resources and strong political will. What we need now is that the government is following up and giving us the means to realize large-scale projects of national value. There is no lack of party speeches; there are no concrete instruments. Attention on plastics, e.g., has gone to weather. Norway is one of the world’s most plastic users, yet the bioplastics and recycling industry has not taken off. And it has not been on the initiative. Even in a municipality like Vang i Valdres with 1,600 inhabitants, private operators want to build a recycling facility for plastics, but do not get enough investment to launch the launch. The supply is one side of the matter. The recently implemented beach cleaning week helps raise awareness among people and allows large areas to be cleared. Nevertheless, the worst thing to think about is that the use of plastics globally accounts for the same amount of climate emissions as aviation. TINE has, for example: chosen to replace an increasing proportion of its plastic with fossil-free alternatives without being profitable. Another example is the shower giant Coca-Cola, who started with bio-based plastic in their bottles, but had to stop because of excessive costs. The sugar levy to the government probably did not contribute positively either. Does the Minister for Economic Affairs think that fossil-phased players should have a red bottom line? Does idealism have to pay the bills? Packaging has a large climate impact, together with materials in construction, infrastructure and energy use. The bioeconomy has answers where we ask questions. Everything that can be made of oil, we can also make of wood, much thanks to great efforts by research environments like Borregaard in Eastfold. In buildings and structures, wood will usually have a better climate impact than concrete and steel. The construction industry has been faced with more stringent requirements to reduce waste and sort the waste it has, which is good, but when it comes to construction, entrepreneurs report that they would like to have been more and more involved in planning and assessing building requirements in order to get less climate impact. This succeeds, inter alia, in: The state roadway service when they build a road, in what they call the Valdres model. On the one hand, the developer often has great ambitions for the project, but rarely has the means to pay the cost of the Ferrari. On the other hand, regulatory plans prevent entrepreneurs from being flexible and environmentally aware of their solutions. Another problem is that plus houses, which are on the front line, are prevented from delivering as much power to the grid as they can. How will the Council of State contribute to the inclusion of material use emissions in the climate accounts for new buildings and infrastructure? And with what measures can the government respond to more and more conscious entrepreneurs? The government is working on an impact review. It's going to be very interesting to see where it ends up. As a representative of the Education and Research Committee, I can say that more instruments than those of the Ministry of Economic Affairs have to be included in the assessments, and it is necessary to see the context, whether it is the review of the Institute sector now, the 2016 review of the Research Council or the paper on innovative public acquisitions, that comes. In concrete terms, for example: propose that Enova should be able to support bio-economy projects in a broader sense than at present, and that this should not be limited to energy alone. Examples include bioplastic production, feeding insects, the production of renewable materials and much, much more. Innovation Norway also lacks funds and is limited for larger investments, as the government also recognised back in 2016. One of the most important questions, to which there should also be good opportunities to get a concrete answer, is: How will the Council of State make strategy into action? When can we expect an action plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e2092	Thank you very much for a good interpellation in an important area. Finally, it is not that political matters need to be followed up for a certain time – that you must first have a NOU, that you have to have a big message, that you have to create a strategy, and then you have to create an action plan. The bioeconomy strategy is the action plan. As I'll say a little bit more about in my post, it's not like it's a strategy, and then there's a follow-up sometime. This is being followed up now. Let's raise our eyes a little bit. The OECD assesses the value creation potential of the bioeconomy as high. Then it's not just forest and wood, but the bioeconomy as a whole. Increased and more efficient use of renewable biological resources is also considered as central to the transformation of a low-carbon economy. Globally, the bioeconomy must also meet the need for food for an increasing population. We have rich access to renewable biological resources in the sea and on land, and then we have an industrial and competence base that is well suited to exploiting that potential. Through targeted and coordinated efforts, better use of renewable biological resources can contribute to new growth and a green shift not only in the Norwegian economy but also internationally. It was the backbone when the government presented its first national bioeconomy strategy in 2016. I ask you to notice, because this was not something that had been done many times before, an initiative that the government just followed up. The first national bioeconomy strategy came under this government in 2016. It describes how national investment in bioeconomy can contribute to increased value creation in jobs, reduced greenhouse gas emissions and more efficient and profitable use of natural resources. In the short term, a focus on the bioeconomy is likely to contribute primarily to sustainable conversion and competitiveness in established bio-industries. But in a longer time perspective, it could also have a greater economic impact on what we can call the total economy. Norway is a national target to be a low-carbon society by 2050, and the United Nations has determined that increased use of renewable biological resources is important to limit climate change. Especially in transport and industry, but also in construction and agriculture, there are great opportunities to use renewable bioresources to replace fossil energy. In addition, increased use of bio-based chemicals and materials may replace fossil-based products. An important bioeconomic principle is also that waste and residues from one activity can become a valuable raw material and an input into another, such as: in the fisheries sector, where we are quite good at exploiting much of the residue, but there are still some of them. In line with this, the bioeconomy will also have a natural place in the government's future circular economy strategy. We need to realise that both management, regulation and instrument structure will be challenged towards a low-carbon society by 2050. Knowledge-building and investment in research, innovation and technology are an important prerequisite for the development of the bioeconomy. The research institutions in Norway have been working on the development of a modern bioeconomy for a long time. We've also managed to commercialize a lot of this. The theme has been particularly relevant to marine research institutions and to institutions related to forestry and agriculture. Researchers are looking at how to increase the value creation of existing raw materials, develop new raw materials and products, reduce discards at harvest and production stages, and sustain sustainability in a broad sense. An interesting development is that researchers in the blue and green sectors, respectively, are increasingly exploring issues common to the sectors. We also see a raging development in the biochemical industry based on the further processing of biological raw materials and by-products from land and sea. In the field of industrial biotechnology, biologically based inputs are used together with biological and process engineering principles in the production of, inter alia, chemicals, enzymes, materials and bioenergy. This allows us to produce new production methods and products in very different sectors, from food and feed, construction and materials and fine chemicals to cosmetics, food supplements and pharmaceuticals, and also in textiles, paper and wood processing, bioplastic products – which were mentioned – and energy. The transition to biotechnological processes can be an environmentally friendly alternative that reduces the number of by-products and reduces the consumption of energy and water. So for the follow-up. As I also mentioned in the previous interpellation debate today that was about this, it is not that there is a strategy, and then nothing has happened. We're doing this, and I even want to say that we're doing well, even if we're not done. In order to support national knowledge and technology developments, the government promoted proposals to increase the funding for research and innovation in bioeconomy by over 100 million. kr from 2017 – not a lump sum, but 100 million. kr that goes. In both Innovation Norway and the Norwegian Research Council, there have been separate programmes to support the development of the bioeconomy in Norway. The aim is to contribute to knowledge building, mobilization and market orientation and to cooperation, development and innovation of goods and services in the bioeconomy. In addition, bio-economy funds come through the entirely general instruments of the instrument. If you look at them, it's about 4 billion in 2019. kr in grants for loans and activities through Innovation Norway and the Norwegian Research Councils linked to the bioeconomy. Plus 250 million is going to be right over there. kr in real estate and corporate investment directly or indirectly targeted at bioeconomy through Siva. So we have both targeted programmes as a follow-up to the strategy put forward by the government, which was the first of its kind in Norway, and multiple times more coming through our broad support schemes. In addition, we have established testing centres for the industry, so-called catapults, strengthened the innovation loan scheme in Innovation Norway and much more. In this context, Nysnø is also worth mentioning, which is an investment company to support climate-friendly energy while making money. Next to Nysnø, we are also helping to step up the use of biofuels. Moreover, this is an important area for us internationally. We work together on the development of the bioeconomy, among others. in the EU Framework Programme Horizon 2020 – I do not remember whether the Centre Party supported our participation in the EU Framework Programme for Research, but I am recovering my memory later – in the OECD and through the Nordic Council of Ministers. Then we have to have support schemes across industries and disciplines and instruments that are coordinated across the different branches of bio-based value chains. There is a major task here at Innovation Norway, the Research Council and Siva. That is why we have asked these actors to establish a joint action plan for the coordination of efforts in this area and the follow-up to the leaders of the bioeconomy strategy. The plan shall be completed during the current year. In the follow-up to the bioeconomy strategy, the government wants to facilitate increased value creation and employment, reduced greenhouse gas emissions and a more profitable and efficient use of resources. This shall be done by promoting cross-sectoral cooperation, industry and disciplines, facilitating new markets, promoting efficient exploitation and profitable processing of renewable biological resources and stimulating sustainable production and extraction of renewable biological resources. The strategy has made a strong contribution to putting bioeconomy on the agenda. Reference is made to the importance of the bioeconomy in a number of key messages and strategies — the forest and tree reporting, the agricultural notification, the forecasting, the industrial notification, the notification of waste policy and the circular economy, the 2030 climate strategy, the government's green competitiveness strategy, the forest and wood strategy, etc. Bioeconomy has also been given a much clearer place in the turnbook for the entire research and higher education effort of the entire government, namely the revised long-term plan. There, the current Minister of Research and Higher Education has done a better job than the previous one. The strategy has also provided ring-effects in the form of regional strategies. It has created its own bioeconomy strategies for the Inland, Eastfold and Rogaland, and in Trøndelag, bioeconomy is one of five areas of activity in their innovation and value creation strategy. In addition, Akershus, Telemark, Troms and Nordland have started various activities aimed at business life in the bioeconomy. The conclusion is that a lot is going on. We are well on track to exploit even more of the possibilities we have in terms of natural advantages, but of course we are not finished. That's why I really appreciate the interpellations like this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e2122	Here it is important to have two thoughts in your head at once: both the idea of the plant to germinate and grow, to bind carbon and to be an important part of the food chain, and the idea of what is going on in the process, politics and planning. I have to admit that I am a little confused by some of the comments made by the Council of State. First, he makes a big number of the fact that there will not be a separate action plan – the strategy is in and out of action. Then he tells us that there's going to be a type of action plan. There's going to be another follow-up. Then it's going to be exciting what's actually going to be in it. Clear insights we have received from business, including: Hedmark and Uppland are precisely that they lack more action and would like to see this built up over time in an action plan. It's good that the Council recognises bio-based alternatives, but I feel it's missing and I feel that you actually have to have profitability in the industries you run with, and that the pace shift we think we need doesn't happen. Despite the estimation of a lot of fine planning, strategies and messages where the bioeconomy is involved, we don't feel that it's reflected in what's actually happening out there, what's actually being filled in the mind, and what's being used in construction and businesses. We need to see the whole country in the green shift. Our resources are distributed, and so must instruments and measures. The sea must be put to work, the green gold of the forest must be converted, and projects that the Foods of Norway must result in commercial activities. The research must be used. Governments are moving forward on energy. That's good, and as the council knows, fossil raw materials are also used in large monns in addition to energy, for example in barley, plastics and chemicals. There's something about seeing the entire circulation of fossil carbon. Taking action here often provides greater value creation and climate benefit, but within these industries there is no incentive to stimulate the phasing out of fossil materials and energy use. It is fascinating when the transport sector is the largest area in which it is possible to cut in the non-quota sector, that we actually see in activity that it is the health sector that addresses issues related to having a zero-emission vehicle and emission-free focus, and that is very concerned about the green shift, while the transport sector has far too little opportunity to do so. A CO 2 fund for industrial transport would have been profitable here. The question is whether the business community is being fooled by all the processes and strategies it is working on, if there is no concrete action.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e2140	I understood the question in the interpellation as if the government were going to present an action plan. Because I perceived the implicit criticism of the interpellation, which also addresses many good themes, such as that the government has just put forward a strategy, and that when you don't put forward an action plan, it means you don't do anything. My point is that the strategy is government action plan, and the follow-up is underway. It is then that the instrument, Innovation Norway, the Research Council and Siva, will also present an action plan. They are, of course, based on the leaders of the government's bioeconomy strategy. I understand that all industries, including this one, because it is a forward-looking industry, will have even more clear and larger stakes. I get that. And this is an important industry, so there's every reason to listen to those recordings. But to suggest that you keep them too stupid? First of all, there was a strategy, it had not come before – but not only did it come, 100 million fresh dollars came to follow up completely concretely, and a separate programme was established in Innovation Norway. In addition, we look at how to lead more bioeconomy businesses to the really big river, and the big river is our research and innovation pots, which have been doubled since 2013 by this government, of which 4 billion. kr goes to bioeconomy-related enterprises through Innovation Norway and the Research Council, and in addition to 250 million. kr from Siva. So my point is that we can do it even better, we can do it for example. coordinate this even better than today. We're never going to have a complete research and innovation system for business, but to be able to do something about it, we need to go through thoroughly and see where the system is failing today. And that's what we're doing through the tool review, where I've mentioned several key questions. Exports have been one, how they hit small and medium-sized enterprises, one last thing is whether we are sufficiently able to raise larger and more complex projects, or whether there is a risk that large projects with quite a high risk of a trader will fall between several chairs. These included: something we were told about – but it wasn't from Borregaard that the recording came in.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e2149	There is something thought-provoking about large parts of the public debate at present, at least in relation to industrial and industrial development, because the really big, most crucial contexts are often those with the least attention. Now I'm going to take three developments in the big picture that show how it goes, because what's our goal now is a greater industrial investment in bioeconomy as well. Investments must be raised. They've been around 20 billion in the last few years. kr, in comparison with Sweden, which is up to over 70 billion. in new investments in industry. We see that what is actually produced in Norway, compared to everything we import, is going down. The trade balance has been steadily weakened in recent years. It tells us something about whether we can expect to have the same welfare state tomorrow. It is far from certain if we do not adopt stronger and more practical industrial and industrial policies from government and corruption. While this is happening — that the prospects for tomorrow’s work need to be greatly improved — large parts of the population are affected by an increase in debt. Only the increase in debt has been up to 190 billion. kr, i.e. – if we make an estimate – almost ten times the investment in industry. We know that this happens at the same time as three out of ten families in Norway have become poorer under the right-hand government and Erna Solberg. That is why this is a serious debate. We need a completely different understanding and a more ground-based and honest approach to where we stand today, to provide for the welfare state tomorrow. The Minister of Industry was inside Borregaard. One thing that Borregaard has taught us is that by industrializing the forest, we get up to ten times as much value for Norwegian society as if we're only doing a pure commodity export. That's what's our common mission: to make sure that the ten-time walker benefits Norwegian families and workers. I mentioned practical policy. We need a strong strengthening of the professional offer to the green sector, both professional and vocational. This is why the National Assembly of the Labour Party has taken a specific decision saying that vocational schools in the green sector and agriculture must also receive state aid, in line with other subjects. Today we know that there are other subjects that are prioritised. Much more practical work can be done if all workers who wish are given the opportunity to strengthen their professional background and opportunities to fill. In the state from which I come, we have to take the spoon in our own hands because the government does not contribute with proper investment in the vocational schools. There we've tried to bet in the colleges, but it's of course demanding when the same government has cut the economy of the counties, and especially the states that we're talking about here, where there are great potentials in the bioeconomy and new industrial travel in the districts. Summary: It is crucial for the prospects for people in Norway that investment in new jobs is increasing and that differences are decreasing.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e2166	The representative Knutsdatter Strand made a good point, so it's not that much more to say than that, but I want to add some comments to the debate. First, I record that the Council of State is very pleased that the government has put forward a bio-economic strategy. He must be, but in view of history it may be worth reminding that it was actually the majority of the Stortinget who, in connection with the treatment of the 2015 state budget, asked the government to put forward a bioeconomy strategy. In this strategy, there is a picture of ten councils of state. It's been years, so many of them have left, especially in one of the government parties. But it shows us and reminds us of how many areas you have to interact with in order for you to succeed in a bioeconomy effort. I feel that there is a lot of talk from the government about action, but the measures have in common that, in some cases, they do not constitute a powerful enough effort. Why is that so? I think here we're talking about a little psychological challenge, especially in the Right Government Party, because they're so happy with themselves. Let me point out what Right today, along with a picture of the Prime Minister, has posted on Facebook: ‘In the right we feel that we are almost the only party talking about value creation in Norway.’ It's illustrated by a picture of the Prime Minister. I'm not going to approve of the exposure to value creation in the government party, and if Right experiences that there's a problem in the government college that there's little commitment to value creation, we're going to help, from the center party side, with that. But I can say that in the Center Party there is a very big commitment and many who both talk about and have suggestions when it comes to value creation. The status update may be a result of the fact that the Right Talks with a little too few, and that they may be a little bit too busy by their own echo chamber in the dialogue they have, because I think they will experience that the Right far away is the only party that talks about and is involved in the creation of wealth in Norway. We have lived in Norway through the use and management of our natural resources. Today, we are living in the use and management of our natural resources, and we will also live in the future by the use and management of our natural resources. But it's interesting when the Council of State in its article is talking about using waste to produce product. I come from a green industry that takes slaughterhouse waste and makes products for dressed, easy fur farming. What is the government's answer to that? Yes, they're going to forbid it. One says: It is forbidden! One must buy fur in Norway - freely. He may have been produced with any kind of claim to animal welfare, but he must only have not been produced in Norway. It's worth taking with you when you're so tall and dark in the discussion. An important part of the bioeconomy is forestry. In the West, many people are concerned about forestry. There is a feeling that the government is most busy banning the wood that they can use in forestry. The forest is one thing, but we have to be able to create an industry of this. We need to speed up the use of our wood, and then we need a significantly higher and more powerful effort. But I also believe – especially in the Right Government Party – that one needs a little more self-criticism and a little less self-satisfied attitude to the results that one has received, and the effort that one has.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e2188	It is probably not in the opposition that there is a lack of interest in both bioeconomy and industrialisation. It seems to be the government parties that are completely shimmering with their absence in these debates today. I miss a government council that is aware of the urgency of this, if we're going to be able to cut 60 pst. of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030. It's urgent if we're going to get to it, and have some jobs we're going to live on. The Council of State spoke of research and the ‘great river’, as he called it. Yes, then it is interesting, the state report that came yesterday, Knowledge of the Green Shift, which says that three to four times more petroleum-related research and development than research and development aimed at renewables. It says something about being on the full speed of the road – still. The council doesn't even say that there's a need to turn this money over into renewables, step down one, step up the other, because one we can't keep going, and the other we can keep going forever, and we can get jobs and save the climate as well. I miss the understanding that it's urgent, and that we have to do it now, because there are others who are developing the industrial workplaces on our resources. Strategies and action plans — much about it — have been provided for a long time. What's important is what we do, and then we've challenged in terms of risk relief. Yes, it is a bit going on, but oil and gas still get much more risk relief. This is where more is needed, because there are not large, heavy oil companies with many billions in their backs investing. The second is: the Council of State was in the previous interpellation in the field of transport, for example. What happens in traffic now? Well, now it is warned that more and more goods are going away from the railways and over the road – that is what is now happening in practice. Is it sustainable for the industries we want? It's not at all. Quite concrete things: The government has now sent to Stortinget a big message about the government quarter, one of the biggest construction projects we have, still with very vague targets for how to use wood in the building, and for how to achieve the climate goals. It's a giant project, with a potential for development that's enormous. It's very small – at least very vague – ambitions in what's in the Storting, so there the government has had an opportunity they don't use. To date, we have discussed ferry subsidies and the public transport of counties. Yes, there is also raw material produced locally, biogas that could have been used in the buses, if arrangements had been put in place to enable the county councils to afford to add it as a requirement in their tenders, and could afford to pay the extra cost it is, to get it replaced. It would have been important in the development of this. So there are many very concrete things that could have been done. So once again, the Council of State is withdrawing tax policy. Unpriority tax cuts are not what's going to get us into the green shift. I understand everyone who wants tax relief, it's not hard to understand that everyone is asking for it, but now we have to twist the tax policy to stop being rewarded for investments in pure property. You have to get more rewarded to invest in what can create the new green jobs in the future. There must also be a targeted commitment to research, so that we get to turn research efforts on this. That's what will be, to put it that way, the action force that could come out of an action plan. But after these two debates, I have to say that I think it takes a government shift to get to the green shift.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e2215	Norway is one of the world’s most emitters of CO2 per capita. In the future, we need to work even harder to distinguish between renewable and fossil carbon sources, so that the bioeconomy gets sprout, grow and populate in full flower. In these days, agricultural negotiations take place – for those who put the earth into work, and who provide us with food on the table and enormous value creation. The right has clearly stated that they will take the fight against the cure, but will not take into account the seriousness of the climate impact in the construction industry. Here, great values are being traded, many employed, and prospects suggest that we should not stop building in the near future. If the food is served, it has to be counted at least as much in the climate accounting as the food does. The center party cheers on the farm, which we cheer on the building managers, and everyone has to join in when we're doing the green shift. The climate accounts for buildings must be prioritised. On the energy side, there is also an enormous opportunity with CO2 funds for business transport, where unfortunately the government has not been able to negotiate more than disagreements. It may not be the case that the Right Party Programme determines the progress of the green shift. Unfortunately, the response to the Council of State has been less elucidating than I had hoped. The positive thing is that we're getting the problem lifted, and there's a lot of good input along the way – everything from education to public procurement. I think we have to include that the strategy is the action plan. The strategy focuses, inter alia, on: a lot on forest roads and timber transport. The centre party would then believe that we need the processing and precisely this value creation in Norway, rather than having measures that make us closer to a banana republic. I would like to thank the debate and look forward to further work on the action plan to be presented by Siva and the Research Council. We have great expectations of this. That the Council of State is offensive, we also have to take as a good sign, and then we hope it turns into concrete action.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e2230	Thank you for a good discussion. First of all, the parts that were about bioeconomy, I think are good. I think it's a little harder to follow the discussion, or at least agree, when you start moving out. It's e.g. there is no secret that the Socialist Left does not really want the oil and gas industry in Norway in the long term – 200,000 jobs – and every opportunity to draw up the oil and gas industry as the main problem. I'm not going to go any further, I'm just prolonging the discussion, but the point is I don't agree with that angle of incidence. Otherwise, I have not seen the figures that Andersen's representative points to, but, as I understood, it was industry research itself – oil and gas versus renewables. If you look at the bioeconomy alone, it's been up to 4.5 billion. kr. Now, not everything is directly related to just green shifts, but if you think bioeconomy is a central part of it, it's not like we're spending six billion dollars. kr for oil research and 700 million. kr on green research. It's not going to be a right picture. Then I think the representative, Andersen, would not be satisfied no matter what I had said. We'll have many opportunities to talk about this later, but since SV in the last few years has discovered business policy, I want to say that it's going to be interesting to see what they're doing, for example. will do in their tax policy, what they will do with their social policy, and what they will do with their industrial policy. All these things are prerequisites for having a private business, and believing that you can have a bright red policy for private jobs, and then that it should pop up green, private jobs by itself or because the state is inside, there's little reason – just so it's said. I fully agree that we have a greater potential within the bioeconomy. Today we've talked a lot about forest and wood processing, but it's also important to remember the marine, that is, seafood and everything going on along the coast, where we have enormous opportunities to use even more of the residual raw material we have, and where there's exciting industrial adventure going on, for example. related to food supplements, which are valid for consumers. Then to the representative Pollestad. The Facebook status of the Right may well be the Facebook status of the Right, but we can at least dwell on whether the situation would be different for the fur industry if another government had been sitting. The government constellation that is the alternative, as it looks, is the Centre Party with the Workers' Party – which is very much in agreement with this – SV and possibly Red and MDG on the tip. Whether the central part of any government change is going to reverse this would be interesting to hear, but let's save it for another discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e2244	That is when the debate is on case No. 9 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e2254	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting. Case No. 1 was the foreign minister's statement. It has already been adopted for consideration at a later meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e2265	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Frida Melvær on behalf of the Right Party and the Advance Party the proposals No 2 and 3, from Lene Vågslid on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 4, from Lene Vågslid on behalf of the Workers' Party the proposals No 5 and 6, from Emilie Enger Mehl on behalf of the Centre Party, It is first voted on the proposals of the Senterpartiet. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to come back with legislative proposals conferring the right of succession on cohabitants who have lived together for a certain number of years and that this right of inheritance may be limited in mutual will between the cohabitants.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to come back with a proposal to assess whether there are particular reasons or exceptional circumstances in view of the above. Paragraph 92, first paragraph, shall lie with the courts.’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e2302	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e2307	Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up a proposal on how the rights of the cohabitants can be treated in full by the succession law by allowing cohabiters who so wish to conclude a separate cohabitation agreement certified by the public authority.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: «The government is asked to make proposals to ensure that transparency under the fourth paragraph of Section 92 is strictly respected, in order to ensure that transaction data are only available on a specific basis for inheritance by more than three months in time.»
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e4916	Alternatively, the second sentence of the first paragraph of Section 50 is replaced by the second sentence of proposal No. Four, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The second sentence of the first paragraph of Section 50 of the Inheritance Act is replaced by the following: However, the inheritance is never greater than 25 times the basic amount of the people's rights in the event of the inheritance of each child of the heir or of each child's line.»
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e4933	It goes over the rest of A.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e4943	Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e4961	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e4973	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Right and Advance Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The last paragraph of Section 43 of the Inheritance Act is replaced by the following: The king may lay down rules governing the digital establishment of wills and the requirements which in that case must be met in order for such wills to be valid. Derogations from the first and third subparagraphs may be provided for in this Regulation.’; The Left and Christian People's Party have announced support for the proposal. The centre party has notified subsidized aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e4992	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e5002	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e5011	A total of five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's Proposal No 1, by Masud Gharahkhani, on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party the proposals No 2 and 3, by Heidi Greni on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 4 and 5, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 4 and 5 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to amend legislation and internal procedures to ensure that the threshold for exemption from the documentary requirement in cases involving persons who have been identified as having the wrong identity in relation to children’s marriages is reduced and that the applicant’s explanation is given great importance.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to amend the legislation on matters relating to the incorrect identity of the child marriage and the exploitation situation in which it has been, so that the threshold to base the changed information shall be very low.’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e5045	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to amend the legislation and, if necessary, to come to the Grand Duchy proposing that persons who have affixed the wrong identity in relation to children’s marriages and who have been granted residence and authorisation in Norway on the basis of this, may not be withdrawn from the residence permits or citizenship, but retain those rights until a new application has been considered, in accordance with the provisions of this Regulation. Section 61 of the Foreign Affairs Act.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to amend the legislation and, if necessary, to come to Stortinget with proposals to ensure that persons notifying the authorities that they have been compulsorily compulsorily married as children and, as part of it, bearing the wrong age/identity of the situation of exploitation, do not lose earned residence when applying for a residence on an independent basis.’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e5067	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e5075	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to launch an investigation highlighting the issue of child marriage and the extent of child marriage in Norway and addressing how Norwegian society can improve the prevention and identification of cases of child marriage. A comprehensive assessment shall be carried out of how these people are to be cared for by public authorities, in particular the follow-up of the foreign authorities. The need for legislative or regulatory changes shall be assessed. The investigation should address challenges related to documentation requirements, identity papers and residence grounds. The case is requested to be submitted to the Storting in an appropriate manner.» The Socialist Left has announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e5096	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. That is the proposal No. 1-3, by Eirik Sivertsen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘I In Law 12 June 1987 No. 56 on Consolidation and other Sami legal conditions are amended as follows: Paragraph 1-1 is replaced by the following: § 1-1 Purpose of the Law. Relationship with international law The aim of the law is to facilitate the development of the Sami community in Norway’s language, culture and social life. The law applies with the restrictions imposed by ILO Convention No. 169 on indigenous peoples and tribal peoples of independent states. The law shall be applied in accordance with the rules of international law on indigenous peoples and minorities. the following Chapter 4 is added: Chapter 4 Consultations § 4-1 Things that are the subject of consultations The provisions of this chapter apply to legislation, regulations and other decisions or measures which could directly affect the Sami interests. In matters relating to the State budget relating to Sámi interests, separate procedures apply and the provisions of the chapter here do not apply. The provisions of this chapter do not apply to matters of a general nature which must be presumed to affect the whole of society in the same way. In matters relating to the natural basis of Sami culture, the provisions of this chapter apply to actions and decisions planned to be taken in traditional Sami areas or which may have an impact on Sami material cultural practices in traditional Sami areas. The provisions of the chapter here do not apply to the Sameting in cases where the Sameting has right of objection under the Planning and Building Act § 5-4. § 4-2 Right to be consulted In matters which are the subject of consultation under Section 4-1, the Sametinget and others who are representative of the Sami interests in the case in question have the right to be consulted. § 4-3 Obligation to consult The obligation to consult in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter applies to: (a) the government, departments, directorates and other underlying establishments; b) State undertakings and private legal entities when exercising powers on behalf of the State. § 4-4 Consultations with Stortinget The size may provide for consultations with the Stortinget. § 4-5 Notification of matters which may be the subject of consultations The person subject to the consultation obligation shall notify the Sametinget and others with the right to consult on matters which may be the subject of consultations, as provided for in: Section 4-1. Where no alert is given, the Sameting may, on its own initiative, request consultations on such cases. The merger and others with the right of consultation shall respond within a reasonable period of time to whether they wish to consult the matter in question. The pooling may also provide an assessment of whether other than the pooling should be consulted in the case. § 4-6 Content and purpose of the consultation process These consultations shall be conducted in good faith and with the aim of reaching agreement. The body having the obligation to consult shall provide full information on relevant matters at all stages of the proceedings. Consultations shall start so early that the parties have the real opportunity to reach an agreement on the decision. The consultation process shall not be terminated for as long as the parties assume it is possible to reach an agreement on the matter. § 4-7 Minutes Minutes of the consultations shall be kept. The Protocol shall state the case, the views and opinions of the parties and the conclusions of the case. It shall be clear whether agreement has been reached. The Sámi party’s assessments in the case shall follow the case until a final decision is reached. § 4-8 Regulations The king may by regulation specify who has the right and obligation to consult and conduct consultations for bodies and legal entities referred to in paragraphs 4 to 3. § 4-9 Effect of breach of consultation rules Infringement of the rules on consultations in this chapter may give rise to nullity in accordance with general administrative principles. § 4-10 Relationship with the Administrative Act and other legislation The rules on consultations in this Act apply in addition to the rules of procedure in the Administrative Act and rules on Sami interests in other laws, with the exceptions provided for in the fourth paragraph of Section 4-1. The current Chapter 4 will be a new Chapter 5. The current sections 4-1 and 4-2 become new sections 5-1 and 5-2. II In Law 19 May 2006 No 16 on the right of access to public works documents is amended as follows: the first paragraph of Section 19 is replaced by the following: There may be exceptions to the transparency of documents exchanged as part of consultations with the Sameting and others in accordance with the rules laid down in Chapter 4 of the Sameting Act. This does not apply to documents exchanged as part of a general hearing in a case. III The law shall apply from the time of the king’s decision.’» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The majority asks the Presidency to propose provisions in the Storting Rules of Procedure for any consultation between Stortinget and Sametinget.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: «The government is asked to submit proposals for the provision of the joint law on consultation obligations for county councils and municipalities at the hearing before re-promotion of the Stortinget.» Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e5262	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Eirik Sivertsen, on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 2 and 3, by Willfred Nordlund on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate and assess how the criteria for financing boat operations can be better structured so that the states with a real need for fast boat transport can maintain and develop the offer. The Government is requested to present this to the Stortinget at the latest in the context of the municipal proposition in 2020. ‘... Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government requests further incentives for the development of zero and low emission solutions for ferries and boats.’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e5293	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the Government to comply with the decision of the Storting to draw up requirements under the Law on Public Acquisitions that all new ferries and scheduled vessels use low or zero-emission technologies when the situation indicates that this is possible.’ The Central Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e5322	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e5341	The Central Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e5353	Case No. 6–9 were interpellations and therefore no svotering theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-09.ana.ud253e5385	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
