ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e182	Representatives Norunn Tveiten Benestad, Geir Adelsten Iversen, Else-May Botten Norderhus, Hanne Dyveke Søttar, Jonny Finstad, Christian Tybring-Gjedde, Espen Barth Eide, Petter Eide, Øystein Langholm Hansen and Martin Henriksen, who have been licensed, have once again taken their seats. The following alternates shall now sit: For Hedmark County: Tone Merete Sønderud For the Nordic counties: Kari Anne Bøkestad Andreassen
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e237	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting continues, if necessary, beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e255	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e264	I would first like to thank the Committee for constructive work on this matter, which deals with two proposals made by SV representatives. One goes to pick up all children with Norwegian citizenship to Norway. And proposal No. 2 to ensure good follow-up by children who may have to come to Norway. This is a difficult matter, but I am pleased that there is a large majority who stand behind the position today. There has been a good work in the committee, and several of the issues in question have been highlighted. In the public debate, many claims and many simplified solutions relating to this matter have been promoted, which prove to be difficult. When you sit down and discuss it in a factual way, you may find – as the majority of the committee has done – that you have to take a holistic view and take more into account. Norway has no obligation to recall neither adults nor children. Nordics abroad do not have an individual requirement to be recovered by Norwegian authorities. But Nordics abroad are entitled to consular assistance if they are looking for a foreign station. It's the parents who make choices on behalf of the children. Norwegian authorities cannot travel around the world and bring back children against the will of their parents. It is important for the Progress Party in this matter to be principled and tidy in how we act. There are many, both children and adults around the world, who are in a very difficult and demanding situation, who have no opportunity to get help from Norwegian authorities, and where Norwegian authorities do not want to provide that kind of assistance. I think it is a completely wrong signal to give if the Stortinget now decided that we should bring back all Norwegian children without even knowing whether the parents would want it, and how the only criterion and difference from other Norwegian-related children who are struggling around the world is that the parents have joined a terrorist army. It would be a completely wrong signal to give Norwegian citizens abroad who do not have the opportunity to get that help and who never get the attention that foreign fighters from Norway have received.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e275	Let me start by saying thank you to the President-in-Office for a good job, but I also feel compelled to say that perhaps the case-in-law of Mr Engen-Helgheim has also been one of those who have been out in the media with very clear and simplified solutions to this matter. It's an extremely complicated situation. There is a situation that develops very quickly, which is not clear, and where there is a lack of information — at least from open sources. On the part of the Workers' Party, consideration for the children who have ended up in a situation they have not chosen for themselves has been very important. That is why we have arranged for children who have been picked up for Syria and ended up being orphans to be brought home, and they are to be brought home with the help of the Norwegian authorities. I notice that the government has also landed at that position and has already carried out such a extraction. We are very pleased to have ended up in a complex and difficult situation. Let me take this opportunity to thank those who were involved — whether they were in Norway or on the ground at that place to pick them up. It was a demanding operation. The Labour Party has also been concerned that there are some parents who have made choices and put their children in such a situation, and who are now living under very difficult humanitarian conditions. In that case, the Norwegian State should make an offer to these parents to bring the children home so that they can have a humanitarian situation and growing-up relationship that is worthy of children. But let me be clear that the Labour Party does not want us to actively bring back adult citizens who have chosen to join the IS terrorist organisation – or, for that matter, other terrorist organisations. This is a situation not just for Norway. It concerns a great many countries. That's why we're also concerned about finding international solutions. We have noted the Swedish initiative, but I would also like to point out that in the comments we address the need for a broader international solution. It can, of course, include an international court — to the extent that it is possible to implement it. It may also be that a multilateral agreement is reached with Kurdish self-government authorities on how to address security needs – because it is not desirable to have an enclave of abandoned persons with IS-related issues stuck in these areas – or to find other forms of international cooperation. We want the Norwegian government to take an initiative, be clear and work proactively to get this kind of international solution. Let me conclude by saying that when it comes to bringing these children home, which is relevant, you have to make sure to have a proper reception apparatus. In this context, we will stress the importance of involving, as far as possible, relevant caregivers in Norway who have some kind of relationship with their children, and hope that the government will also pay attention to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e290	The humanitarian conditions in refugee camps in Syria are very difficult, and the situation of children of Norwegian warheads living in camps is inconclusive and worrying. The situation in the area is still complex, and there are no simple solutions. Then it's very good to see that the government has already managed to bring home five orphans, and it's good that the government is actively working to get an overview of the situation and identify possible solutions to help the children. The best interests of children also need to be balanced against other concerns, such as the security situation in the city, humanitarian care, local legislation and association with Norway and the country of residence. Available consular resources and basic national security interests must also be considered. This understanding of the perpetrators of the Convention on the Rights of the Child has long-standing support in legal and administrative practices. Such an understanding was also provided by the government of Stoltenberg II in Meld. St. 27 for 2011–2012, Children on the run. Parents have the right and the duty to determine their own children. It includes the right to decide where a child should bow and behave. The EEAS cannot retrieve children from abroad in contravention of this requirement. Children who come to Norway from conflict areas and who have witnessed or been subjected to violence may be traumatized and need special follow-up from several services. The Child Welfare Service must take the initiative to ensure that other relevant services address the child’s needs, such as: health care and organisation for participation in kindergartens, schools and recreational activities. Many would like to see it. need help from mental health protection for children and young people to cope with trauma. Then I perceive it that the Ministry of Health and Welfare has commissioned the Health Directorate to assist Buffdir in preparing the necessary measures for children of parents with IS connections who return to Norway from Syria. It includes ensuring the necessary cooperation between relevant knowledge and competence services, health services and other support services. I am sure that the government will follow up in the best possible way under the demanding conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e303	The humanitarian conditions in the Syrian refugee camps are very difficult. The situation is inconclusive and worrying. Children and young people are vulnerable and constitute a very vulnerable group. The situation is particularly worrying for orphans. The best interests of children must be given priority, and the priority must be given to bringing orphans from Norway. The centre party has noticed the work done by the government and the EEAS in these cases, and is very pleased that five of the orphan children have now been brought home to Norway. I understand that these are time-consuming and complicated tasks. Assessments related to the safety, identification and procurement of the children are demanding tasks under the unbridled conditions of those camps. Parents have the right and obligation to decide where to stay and where to stay. This applies irrespective of the reason they are abroad. The EEAS cannot bring children from abroad in contravention of this. This implies that, in the case of children who accompany parents, parents must agree that the external service may assist with the departure of the children. Any assistance from the Norwegian authorities will be an offer and it is up to parents to decide whether to use it. If this becomes the case and the children have caregivers in Norway, for example. Grandparents, it is important that such a process takes place in close cooperation with these caregivers. I have noticed the job that the government and the EEAS have done so far in these matters, and will point out that the work must continue until all the orphan children have been brought home. Children of foreign fighters who are Norwegian citizens and who come to Norway, like all other children living in the country, will be entitled to the necessary assistance, care and follow-up from child protection. These children have lived under extremely demanding conditions, and there is reason to believe that they will need both somatic and mental health care. It will impose specific requirements on child-care assessments of the needs of each child. It is good that the Children’s, Youth and Family Directorate, Bufdir, has been given the task of establishing a preparedness for the follow-up and guidance of the child protection services concerned, and that the Health Directorate has been given the task of preparing actions for these children. These will be children who may have been exposed to or witnessed violence and abuse. They are likely to be traumatised and require special follow-up. It will require interdisciplinary cooperation between kindergartens, schools, health services, etc. for many years to come. Careful follow-up over time will be absolutely necessary. For these children, kindergarten and school will play an important role in integration. Schools, kindergartens, councillors, etc. will need information and support over a long period of time. Therefore, good local economy and sufficient resources for the municipalities that are responsible for the growth of these children will be essential for our success.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e320	I will first address the SV's proposal in the matter. Norway has both a international and a humanitarian responsibility for children of Norwegian citizens who are in a difficult situation abroad. It must be clear that Norway has an extensive responsibility for those who are Norwegian citizens, and the children concerned by this proposal are entitled to Norwegian citizenship because they meet the requirements of the law. And they're completely innocent in the situation they've been put in. Most of them were born in Syria. If the camps are opened and the parents reach a Norwegian foreign station, they are entitled to come to Norway. If these children come to Norway within the age of 22, and live in Norway for two years, they also have claims for Norwegian citizenship, and then they may have been in this situation for very many years. It's a totally undesirable situation. These children need Norwegian help to get their citizenship and to get out of this situation before they are totally traumatised. This is completely in line with what is reported. For 2010–2011, point 12 states which nationals of Norway are to help in particular in difficult situations abroad. Here, life and health are at stake, it involves minors, and it is a violation of human rights. No one is in any doubt that this is going on massively in particular. Al Hol-leiren. No one says this is easy. No one has said that anyone can go and pick up children where their parents oppose this. What we have proposed is that the Norwegian authorities take responsibility for the realization of these children's rights. In some cases, this will mean that the Norwegian parent will also come to Norway and, of course, will have to be punished for what has been done. It's a matter of course. But there are some who talk as if someone has suggested taking children from parents against their will. You can't. With regard to the pediatric evaluations to be taken into account, this is not just an consideration — it is a fundamental consideration. Norway has agreed to this, and we have those commitments. That is why the basic concern of the children must be the main concern of this case, and it is still a good thing before the authorities have taken that responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e337	The representative Karin Andersen then addressed the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e342	Few of us are able to imagine the reality these children have experienced. It is good that empathy is so strong in Norwegian society that it has been and is a strong commitment to these children from many teams. There is no doubt that children of parents associated with IS are victims of poor parental choices. Several of these children are formally Norwegian, and it is therefore in line with both the Children’s Convention and the general public that Norway is making an effort to bring the children home. We are happy that five orphans have already been brought home and are looking forward to more soon. We are pleased that the government has made sure that these children receive the necessary help and follow-up, and that their anonymity is preserved, so that they avoid the additional burden of public searchlights on their young lives. Children of foreign fighters coming to Norway will have the same right to necessary assistance, protection and care as all other children. Most people realize that these children actually have experiences in their luggage that are worse than many, or some, can imagine. Thus, part of the mission will help them to have a normalised everyday life, both inside and outside. The Minister for Children and Family Affairs has, among other things: made it clear that children returned from traumatic conditions in Syria will receive separate follow-up. They may have witnessed or been subjected to violence and abuse and may need both somatic and mental health care. There may also be special needs in schools or kindergartens for the follow-up of children. So let's not pretend that this doesn't have unproblematic sides. It is a dangerous area, and there are many challenges to identification and formalities. We are confident that the government is working to find solutions to this, and we have noticed that the International Commission for Missing Persons has offered its assistance in this work. We have received clear reports that the conditions in the Syrian refugee camps are very difficult. It suggests that it is very important to work hard to solve the situation for the children as quickly as possible. Such expectation was clearly communicated from the Christian People's Party national meeting at the end of April. The best of children must always be in the first row. At the same time, we must be aware that parents have the right and the obligation to make decisions for their children. This means that the Norwegian authorities cannot bring a child home when the parents oppose this. Finally, I would like to take the opportunity to remind all of us of our responsibilities, both as practitioners of authority and as individuals. In five, ten, or twenty years, some of these children's backgrounds may become known. Then we have to expect from each other that they also have to be treated as innocent victims, so that they can move on with their lives. It's not just a public responsibility, it's a human responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e361	Consular issues where children are involved are particularly challenging, and especially where children are orphans. Therefore, the government has had a clear priority to bring in orphaned children where their parents have an IS connection. Five orphaned children were picked up from Syria to Norway on Monday 3 June. It was entirely in line with those priorities, and I feel that there has been a significant cross-political agreement and support for it. The work of facilitating the withdrawal of children from Syria and their arrival in Norway has continued over a long period of time, was very complex and involved in a total of eight departments. The safety of children has been the most important aspect of this work, and it has also provided guidance for its implementation. I share the representative's concern about the humanitarian challenges in the Syrian refugee camps, and that is also one of the reasons why the government has increased its efforts, among others. to contribute to the establishment of a field hospital, health care and other assistance. We also have a significant concern for the children of Norwegian foreign fighters. There is a situation in the area that is both complex and safety challenging. As a Party to the Convention on the Rights of the Child and other Conventions on Human Rights, Norway has an obligation to ensure the rights of convention of persons within its jurisdiction. This is the general rule for persons on the territory of the State. However, Norway has no international legal obligation under the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child or other Conventions on Human Rights to bring home the children of Norwegian foreign fighters abroad. So this was something we did because we thought it was necessary for the children who do not have their main caregivers. In consular matters, consideration for the best interests of the child will be a fundamental consideration. However, other considerations will also be relevant, such as the on-site safety situation, humanitarian considerations, local legislation, links with Norway and the country of residence and the availability of consular resources. The child’s consideration will be given to a large, but not necessarily decisive, weight in an overall assessment of each case. This understanding of the Convention’s provisions on the best interests of the child has long-standing support in legal and administrative practices. Such an understanding was also provided by the government of Stoltenberg II in Meld. St. 27 for 2011–2012, Children on the run. It is also certain that the provisions of the Basic Law on the best interests of the child must be understood in the same way. Then I am very happy that in a good cooperation between many departments and departments we have managed to bring home five orphan children who are in a particularly vulnerable situation. But I also remember that it is just about five small children who have lived under difficult and unsafe conditions without their parents, who have been taken home, but who also have the right to grow up and live their lives here in Norway without having to bear the legacy that parents have unfortunately given them.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e376	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e382	There is a broad consensus in this case that there is a complex and difficult situation. As I said in my post, we're busy finding an international solution. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: How will the Minister for Foreign Affairs contribute to Norway's proactive search for broad international solutions to the complex situation, particularly affecting children in a refugee camp?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e387	I thank you for the question. We have close contact with other countries, both of course with the Nordic countries — where we have also had joint meetings — and with the other European countries. There are slightly different policy developments in the various countries, and of course there will also be a framework for what the different European countries want to contribute to by different solutions. We have been very clear that to the extent that it can help remedy a situation, we also want to look at European solutions – or common solutions, but we need to be aware that the different legislation in different countries also sets some limits. For example, there is a country that does not have legislation to prosecute those who have been associated with IS — and if they were to come home, it would represent a challenge — while other countries, such as Norway, have such legislation and thus have that possibility. There is also a framework for how different countries want to find solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e392	Let me start by saying thank you for the answer. I understand that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is responding confirmably that you want to be proactive from the Norwegian side. Then I'm going to put the Foreign Minister in a difficult position – but it's with the best will – and let her have the opportunity to vent some reflections about it. The question will be divided into two parts. One is, what possible international solutions can we imagine that are currently discussing? And in what time perspective will it be realistic? I understand that there are no simple questions to answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e399	To take the last one first: the time perspective is almost impossible to say about. It's simply because the situation is changing on the ground all the time, and it also changes the assumptions for possibly doing something. The second is, of course, that the discussion — especially in European countries — is different, there are different considerations to take into account in the different countries. In addition, we also know that we are dependent on finding agreements with local authorities on the ground, which can also impose constraints that are difficult for European countries to deal with. In my opinion, it is difficult to say exactly how and when you can see this type of possible solution, but I would add that we are now also actively involved in the work to identify the possibilities of a possible international court to assist in criminal prosecution.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e406	To deprive these children of the opportunity to come to Norway and realize their citizenship is, in fact, to punish them because their parents have committed atrocities. Work to ensure the right to name and nationality shall be exercised by the State. It is a duty to act in situations where children can be subjected to torture and inhumane action, so if you can help, should you? I have noticed that in the response of the Council of State to the Committee, it is stated in the last section on this topic that it is necessary to ‘identify possible solutions to assist the children’. Does that mean that you're also working to find solutions for these children, or does that mean that you've closed the door if your parents aren't willing to give the children away there and then?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e413	As I also describe in the reply to the Stortinget, it is – and the Prime Minister has also confirmed – that if parents want their children to come to Norway, that is, that it is based on parental consent, there is an opportunity to assist in transporting them to Norway. We have also said that we do not want to say more about any other operations, simply because they are complex and safety demanding. Entering into details of any assessment of it may endanger the child. We don't want to do that. Let me also confirm what has been said by several others in the room today: we had a clear priority, and that was the orphan children. They are in a particularly demanding and vulnerable situation where we wanted to find solutions – as we found. But I also stress that that work was very demanding. We have to assume that any other discussion will be similarly demanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e422	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e427	I am glad that we now have five orphaned children at home. It has been important for the government that we have initially prioritised the most vulnerable children, those who are without caregivers. The operation has been demanding for all involved, but especially for the children concerned. The most important thing now is that they are met with security and care and get good and systematic follow-up, and that they get the help they are entitled to. These are vulnerable young people who may have witnessed or been subjected to violence, assault and other harmful acts. When a child protection service receives a message of concern for a child of foreign fighters who have come to Norway, it is usually necessary to examine the situation and assess the need for child protection measures. Norwegian child protection has good competence to help and follow up traumatised children. However, the background of young people in these cases may impose specific requirements on the provision of child protection services. I therefore commissioned Bufdir to establish a preparedness to assist the child protection services concerned. The Directorate will provide legal and child-care guidance. The Directorate has also prepared an information letter describing specific legal issues and other important issues in order to provide the best possible assistance to these young people. Information written is distributed to child protection services to provide children of foreign fighters arriving in Norway. Children coming to Norway from Syria will need specific follow-up from several services. Children’s protection services must therefore take the initiative to investigate the needs of young people, inter alia, by other relevant services. health care and participation in kindergarten, school or recreational activities. Bufdir will assist the child protection service in this interdisciplinary cooperation. In order to ensure optimal care for the somatic and mental health of young people, the Directorate for Health has been entrusted with assisting Bufdir in preparing the necessary measures. In concrete terms, RVTS East has been given the task of assisting child protection services and other relevant services with competence enhancement and guidance. The Health Directorate has been given the means to build skills on how best to deal with returnees and their young. Kindergarten and school play an important role in integrating these kids. If we are to be able to help them in a good way, multidisciplinary efforts are crucial. We have a responsibility for these kids, and we take that responsibility. These are our children, and they deserve a safe growth.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e442	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e447	Carers living in Norway who have some connection with the children who have come home, either as close relatives or who otherwise have a relationship with them, can play an important role in reintegration, etc. Will the Council of State facilitate these persons to play such a role, and that the relevant authorities, including child protection, school, kindergarten, other health services, to which the Council of State was involved, are involved, where possible and relevant, on the journey home, and in reintegration and further life in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e454	Thank you for an important question. It is important for me to clarify that these matters will be dealt with by child protection in the most common way possible. That is precisely the point, to which the representative refers, that it is also necessary to examine whether associations, families and, where appropriate, others close to the children can be important, either as foster homes or only in the follow-up of the young. This will solve a child's protection, I hope, a good way, and they will be involved and do the investigations as if it were a normal case.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e462	Thanks for the answer. I want to address another issue that has also been raised, which has emerged through the media, and it is probably well-known to the Council of State. There is criticism from the Municipality of Oslo that the Child Protection Service received very short notice of the children concerned. As I understand it, there is a balance between different security reasons, both the safety of the children to be picked up, and of course also those involved in the operation. The question is divided into two parts: does the Council of State consider that this was done in a proper manner and that the child protection service was given sufficient warning to perform its tasks properly? The second thing is, what do you learn from this, so maybe you can do it a better way the next time a similar operation is going to take place?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e471	The most important thing has been the safety of children. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs also said, it has been ongoing in the matter. Therefore, it was important that as little as possible knew when the kids would come. Nevertheless, we chose that the child protection service was notified locally, by the manager, almost a week before. They had a readiness or at least a certainty that children could come, but for safety reasons, it was not right to give. There was an appointment – so most things were well prepared. Then I have a great understanding that such a type of case becomes very chaotic, demanding and gets a lot of media attention. Solving it on the ground will always be demanding. We are also prepared by the department to learn from any mistakes if there is something that could have been done better. In any new operations, we're going to learn from it and do it even better. But I am also sure that the kids have been met in a good way and will get good follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e478	The consideration of the traumatized children must weigh very heavily in such situations, because it is a powerful impression for them. As for the way it's been handled this time, I'm glad that the council says it's probably a potential for improvement, because it sounds like you don't trust child protection. They were informed at 0 p.m. 20 in the evening, and two and a half hours after the land the children. There was no one from child protection present when the children landed. It's pretty serious if you don't present some safe nurses very early who can do the same for children. The question is, what does the Council of State do now with the information he has received about how it went this time? I think we should thank a very good child protection service for this going well, but what concrete things will the Council of State improve for the next time?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e485	Let me first of all say that I am very grateful and happy that we have had five orphans home, that the operation has gone according to plan, and that it has been a successful operation. I would also like to say that there have been thorough assessments of how the children should be accepted. It was clear that they needed health skills, and they were received in a very good way. Having said that, I gave a mandate, a mission, to Bufdir – my directorate – to establish a readiness to have follow-up and guidance and to assist the local child protection services if necessary. As stated, local child protection services received a warning in good time to be aware that children could be born. Child protection is used to acutely accept and to acutely operate. That's why I'm glad they've done a good job locally. Bufdir shall also be ready to help if necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e492	It's true that child protection is prepared for urgent matters, but this was a pretty extreme situation where five siblings came in, who of course also have a great need to be together. I have to say that I am stunned by the reason why you do not trust child protection, so that there may be someone from the responsible child protection both in the reception phase and when the children are going to be helped by the health care system. It seems very special that you cannot rely on child protection to the extent that you can involve them and know who is responsible, and that from the very first moment you can be the safe person when your children are in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e497	For many reasons, I will not go into the direct assessments that have been made, in many cases also by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but it is the safety of the young who have come first. It's not about trust or mistrust; it's about the safety of the kids being put at the highest level. We know that if the operation had been revealed, in the worst case, it could have resulted in one not being able to carry it out, or in the worst case, the safety of the kids. As I have said several times, we are concerned that this is done in the best possible way, so if there are learning points we discover when we go through the case and how it has been handled, we are more than willing to learn from it. What I'm very grateful for is that it's been done in a good way, and that the children have been met in a good way. Now the big job starts, because it's right as the representative says, this is an extraordinary situation where you need exceptional follow-up and help. There my directorate will also assist municipal child protection in solving this in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e504	I have to say that I will probably need a much better explanation as to why you can't have anyone with pediatric competence in the reception phase in these cases. No one disagrees that the safety of children is the most important thing, but it is very difficult to understand why representatives of child protection who are to be responsible for the children when they come to Norway cannot get information so that they can meet and be present, and also follow the health care system, because of course that was necessary. I'm going to ask more questions about this, but again I'm going to try to get the Council of State to be a little more concrete: will the Council of State go through these experiences with the Municipality of Oslo and see what can be concretely improved?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e509	I want to make it clear that it's not like these kids have been met by people who don't have the skills for children, but it's true that the local child protection where the children were supposed to be wasn't necessarily present at the airport, but there's something else. These kids have been met well. I emphasize that I think one never finds the perfect solutions the first time. This is the first time such an operation has been carried out, and so we are – yes – interested in looking at what we can learn from, whether there is something that can be done better, so that if a new operation is carried out, we should be able to receive the kids in an even better way. But I stress that child protection is well prepared to accept traumatized children, and there are also cases where there are more siblings. Now the big job starts by making sure that they are followed up in a good way. There's more than child protection that needs to work together, and I'm very concerned that we're going to solve in a good way. There will also have an important role to play in the municipal child protection service.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e516	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e523	The issue of children of IS warriors has upset many, not just us on the Stortinget. Several polls show that nearly six out of ten Nordics want the government to go further to find good solutions. This isn't really just an emotional, emotional, matter. We have just made this proposal because we believe that there are also good fundamental and political reasons why we should go further to help these children. We believe that these children, who are Norwegian citizens, have the right to protection from Norway. Here, there are important conventions of international law underpinning, of course, the Children's Convention. The government limits this to our protection being extended only to the children who are orphans. In other words, it is believed that the children who have parents have less rights to protection from the Norwegian state, even though we must realize that they live under the same conditions. They are equally vulnerable, living under the same unworthy conditions in refugee camps. Why the orphans are going to have more rights than children with parents, it's just a little bit difficult for me to understand. The counter-arguments here are — it is also claimed on a formal basis — that Norway has no obligation. No, but we're talking about war zones, and then we should definitely go far. Nor is there anything that prevents us from exercising this responsibility in another way. Other counter-arguments raised in the debate are that it is difficult, it is unwieldy, it is practical, etc. It is also claimed that some choices are so stupid that they cannot be forgiven – this is evident in the public debate – and even that children can be dangerous. I think we have to bear in mind that the real reason why this government and the parties that support it do not want to pick up all Norwegian children with Norwegian citizenship is that you will get some parents on the purchase that you do not fully understand, and then you have to take legal and perhaps criminal responsibility for these parents. We're going to deal with another matter at Stortinget in a couple of days. It becomes very clear that the government does not want to punish Norwegian foreign fighters in this area, only criminal prosecution if they come to Norway voluntarily. This is the basis. There are substituting arguments that emerge. The real reason why you don't want to help the children who have parents is that you don't want to bring any parents you have to run a legal trial with in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e540	The debate shows that there is agreement on a part of this matter. There have been several aspects of the matter that have nuanced the picture. There is an agreement to pick up orphans. Five have – as mentioned above – been picked up. The Progress Party trusts that the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Children and Gender Equality and others have made proper assessments when considering the security of both the nation and the children, and all the child-disciplinary assessments that have been made around it. There is a broad consensus that better international cooperation is needed to establish, if possible, an international criminal court to deal with the problems further. On the other hand, the Progress Party believes that agreement is limited to bringing orphans. The track that goes with parents' consent to pick up only the children is a difficult track to follow. Legally, the validity of such consent would be very problematic. It is clear that these parents will be entitled to have relations with their children at a later stage – almost in any case. It is quite clear that the children who are orphans were in a very special situation. They were more vulnerable than children who have caregivers present. That is why the assessment has been carried out. It's not about children's rights, it's about the vulnerability of the children. That you could agree to pick up orphans, I think we'll be happy. Then it's completely out of the question for the Progress Party to agree to solutions that will help people to Norway who have volunteered to join a terrorist army. It's a completely wrong signal to give. There is a very important consideration in the overall assessment that has been made, and that needs to be done in the future, that Norwegian authorities are not to pick up persons who have joined a terrorist force abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e552	The undersigned is very happy because there is something called three-minute posts, at least when you have made a post so that one does not get through it. Now this point was further updated through the posts that have been held in the hall afterwards. It is important for us to clarify that the best of children must always come first, but equally fully we must be aware that parents have the right and duty to make decisions for their children. Therefore, Norwegian authorities cannot bring up children when parents oppose it. In several cases, it is also clear that one or both parents have committed very serious crimes. To the extent that they come to the country, they must of course answer for this and get a fair judgment in the judicial system. Of course, national security considerations need to be strongly considered in view of what is going to happen to parents, but once again it is important to stress that even if parents have committed abominable crimes, children should not be charged for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e559	First, it is important to state that Norwegian citizens cannot be refused entry into Norway. It sounds like someone thinks so. The second is that giving war crimes and criminal acts is an important signal. That's SV very busy. To deprive these children of the opportunity to come to Norway and leave them to an uncertain, potentially very dangerous fate in the camps in northeastern Syria is in practice to punish them for their parents' untruths, by failing to do what is possible in a hopeless situation. Can we help you? Yes, of course we can. Other countries have done it. It's possible to help these children. Yeah, it's hard, but it's possible. In accordance with Article 7 of the Children’s Convention, Norwegian foreign stations with their official approvals must be entitled to the name and nationality and, in such a situation, they may conduct outreach activities in the camps where these children are, sea or in cooperation with other countries or the United Nations. We know that. Work to ensure the right to name and nationality shall be exercised by the State. These children have no chance of reaching the state unless the state assists them where they are, because they do not get out of this situation. These are very small children, most of them. Most of them are under school age. It's not possible for them to solve this sea. We have a duty to act in situations where children can potentially be subjected to torture and inhumane action. We have opportunities to help those who are Norwegian citizens. I often discuss asylum policy on this platform. Then we are told that we cannot help everyone else, we must help the Norwegians first. Here we have a clear duty to those who are Norwegian citizens, but then you choose not to do so. At least one of the government parties makes it very clear. I read the Council's replies to the committee, and there's some nuances there that I hope means doing this work, looking for other countries that you can also cooperate with. I discussed with the state council the orphan children just before they were picked up, and recorded that then there was a work going on to get it in place. I'm very happy about that, and I'll give you credit for that. We get to hope that's the way the government goes after all, sail if they don't want to say it in plain text.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e574	First to Petter Eide: It is obvious that children without parents, who are orphans, are in a much more vulnerable situation than those who have a caregiver, their primary caregiver, with them. In addition, the parental right imposes some restrictions and restrictions on what both Norwegian authorities and others can do, and that applies both in Norway and not least beyond the borders of Norway. The reason I took the floor is that there is a partial impression that 3 June was the first contact between the U.D. and child protection, and that there has been no child-care competence involved in the retrieval. This is, as Andersen's representative was in, a very special situation. This was also the reason why the departments responsible were notified as soon as possible, so that they could make the necessary preparations. Early in May, there was a meeting between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs and Bufdir, where we explained that we were working to bring the children home, and that the agencies responsible had to be prepared for the children to arrive within a short time, without any special notice. Information on the situation of children made it clear that the main need for return was for them to receive the necessary health care. This was also communicated to the responsible agencies in mid-May, when they were informed that it was planned for the reception and immediate follow-up of the healthcare system where child protection would be connected on arrival, because child protection is not allowed to start investigation before the children return to Norway. At the end of May it turned out that we were beginning to approach a possible solution. We triggered the readiness to initiate the extraction on 27 May, and on the same day we notified the county council of the request to appoint a body for the children and to notify child protection. The next day, on 28 May, the county council confirmed that defence would be appointed, and that child protection had been notified. On 29 May, the County Council informed the U.D. of the appointment of a candidate, and they also established direct contact with the donor, who informed on 31 May that he had also been in contact with child protection — in addition to, of course, continuous contact with relatives in Norway. Not until 2 June did we get permission from the local authorities to pick up the children in the refugee camp and take them home to Norway. On 3 June they were picked up by Norwegian personnel, including Norwegian health professionals, and followed all the way from Syria to Norway. They had babysitting and extra pediatrician on the plane, plus that the staff the children had attached to in Syria were with all the way back, to make this as mild and gentle as possible. When the children were picked up in the camp and on their way out of Syria, early morning on June 3, we informed them that the children had been picked up and would arrive in Norway later that evening. After agreement, the conversation was followed up the next day, and we were confirmed that the defect was in contact with the hospital where the children were staying, and that the child protection was connected. We also received confirmation from the health service.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e587	Today there are about 35 Norwegian children in camps in Syria. They live under precarious sanitary conditions and with minimal supply of food and health care. However, it was only after long-standing pressure from the despaired relatives and Norwegian opinion that the government agreed to pick up a few of them. It was just supposed to be missing. The home pick-up shows one thing: despite difficult circumstances, it is actually possible to get these children home to Norway. Then there is no excuse not to do what is the government's duty under the Constitution: to protect children's rights. In practice, doing what you can to get home also means the Norwegian children in Syria who are not orphans. In addition, we know that the authorities of the Democratic Federation of North and East Syria will help the authorities bring these children home. This has already been done by other countries, according to the head of the Federation's Foreign Affairs Committee. Then, too, the Solberg government in Norway can do the same. Then it's mentioned that bringing children home also leads to bringing home mothers who have been active in IS. Here is a sensible solution: bring these children home with their mothers, and put those who have participated in the IS, before the court here at home. Then we guarantee two things: we protect the rights of Norwegian children, which the Constitution imposes, and we get legal proceedings against Norwegian citizens who have participated in a terrorist movement. Therefore, the SV's proposal to bring these children home and to contribute to a court settlement against Norwegian citizens suspected of war crimes in Syria and Iraq, which is therefore being treated as a proposal tomorrow. We fear that the government will disclaim much of the responsibility, so we get a bad outcome in both cases – firstly, that Norwegian innocent children still suffer from detention camps, and secondly, that parents who have participated in a terrorist movement are not properly prosecuted. The solutions are available. These children are now suffering unnecessarily because of the Norwegian authorities’ so far lack of willingness to protect innocent Norwegian children. Our policy is clear: we shall not punish any children for their parents' cruel actions. The government has to bring all these children home and have them responsible for war crimes brought before the court, so we get a proper court settlement with their actions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e600	I asked for the floor now at the end because I received a comment from the Minister for Foreign Affairs that there may be a need to clarify. Of course, I do not disagree with the fact that orphans are more vulnerable, but is it so that we believe that orphans should have others and perhaps more rights? Do not orphan children and children with parents have exactly the same rights to protection in a war zone? Making this distinction where there are some of their own formal rights for orphans and for those with parents, I think it is wrong. SV believes that these children we are discussing today, and their parents should not be separated. It should not be that we are forced to pick up the children and deprive their parents of their children. No, they are to be transported to Norway either with consular assistance or with the police, and then parents are to be prosecuted in Norway if necessary, if they are suspected of war crimes. I understand that the refusal to make solutions that will also deal with other children, i.e. children with parents, is about not wanting to get any parents on board with Norway as there will be a need to prosecute in Norway. This is probably the real reason for the refusal to look at solutions for all Norwegian-related children in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e609	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e614	First to the pediatric follow-up. The E-mail from County Council to Child Protection reads as follows: Hey, I guess you got the news. We've been informed by the U.D. that the children are coming around midnight. So it was two hours before they landed. This has been confirmed by those responsible, and it is simply not good enough. I note that the majority today do not agree that we should protect children who are Norwegian citizens as much as we can. These children we can protect better than we do today. I also record that the majority think it is entirely right that it is completely uncertain whether or not those who have committed war crimes are being prosecuted. That doesn't mean SV. We think it's very important that it happens. I also record that you probably think it is good to leave to a warring country to take responsibility for both Norwegian children and Norwegian criminals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e627	I believe it is important, in Stortinget, that it is very clear – as the Foreign Minister said in his speech, where she went through the whole timeline – that the quotation referred to by the representative Andersen was definitely not the first contact between the County and Child Protection. Child protection was prepared for these children to come – that was the plan – and be able to prepare as best they can. Then it was the safety assessments that made one choose not to go out with the exact time in advance. I am glad that you have put the safety of the children first and that they have come home safely.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e634	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e650	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e659	Today, we are discussing a major and important agreement on climate cooperation between the EU, Norway and Iceland. This agreement has been negotiated over a long period of time. The size was first dealt with in 2015, in Meld. St. 13 for 2014-2015, the idea of a new 2030 emissions obligation – a common solution with the EU, in which all parties supported the idea of including in these negotiations. They're now on target. This is an agreement that makes the Paris Agreement more concrete for us. It does not extend the commitments made by Norway and the other countries under the Paris Agreement, but it is an agreement that makes clear implementation plans much clearer. These are land use, sectoral plans, the emissions budget, binding annual reductions and a monitoring, measurement and reporting system. I would like to thank the Committee on this matter for its good cooperation and I am pleased that there is a broad consensus on the main lines. The Agreement is adopted in accordance with Protocol 31 to the EEA Agreement, i.e. areas outside the four freedoms. This is also in line with the wishes of the majority. I remind you that we already have extensive cooperation with the EU through the ETS, which is part of the EEA, which makes us interact around the so-called Emissions Trading System, ETS. That is already the case; now we are expanding our cooperation to a number of other areas. This is good, and the fact that almost all the members of the committee are in favour of us joining this agreement, I see as a strength. So it is that, although there is broad consensus on the main lines, there is disagreement at an important point, and there is concern about the use of flexibility mechanisms between countries. There are two types of flexibility. One is between sectors; there is agreement that it should be used. The other goes between countries, and as we in the Workers' Party, the Green Party and the SV have seen it, and as it is described in our remarks, we believe that it gives a room to be able to buy free from obligations we would otherwise have had under the Paris Agreement, using this kind of flexibility. That's what we think is problematic, because we're standing without our own independent national targets, and we think it's healthy, both for the private and public sectors, to have some of those common goals. I imagine that a lot of the debate today is going to be about that. However, I would like to stress now, as the rapporteur-in-Office, and in the introduction, that this is a good agreement. It is important and correct, and it strengthens Norway's climate policy that this agreement will be adopted today in Stortinget. I'm addressing the suggestions that the Workers' Party is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e676	The representative Espen Barth Eide has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e681	Today, we are saying yes to working with Europe to cut emissions. It is in recognition that the climate problem cannot be solved country by country; it must be resolved jointly. For the first time, we now have a binding international agreement on climate policy. This will guide the transition to Norway and Europe by 2030. Someone is trying to get this debate to be about something other than what it's about. It's because they think they have something to earn on it, but notice that it's nothing but a rhetorical exercise. The left side has once again proved unable to talk about climate policy in a serious way. This case is not about flexibility. It is already being queried on the government platform. This issue is not about what is today the EU's objective, because Norway's position that the EU's objectives should be raised is also being queried in the government platform. There is some anxiety about the comments of the left-hand side in this case – that they are too late for the party every single time. Again and again, the left-hand side shows that they have a bad climate policy. When they continue to talk about the objectives, it is because they do not have any measures to achieve the objectives. When the left-hand side makes suggestions, it's in the spirit of recycling. They suggest things the government is already doing, and hope that no one else notices it. If they come up with completely new proposals, there are proposals that will make climate policy more expensive for ordinary people or that could lead to job losses. It doesn't give you any green conversion. It gives, as usual for these parties, a red conversion in which the state grows and grows. The climate agreement we are now agreeing to is followed up by concrete measures. This means that for the first time Norway will have a climate policy for all sectors. For example, negotiations with agriculture and fisheries are already under way. Emissions reduction policy must be developed in cooperation with those who are going to cut emissions, and the country must contribute money to the conversion of Norwegian jobs, which we are taking seriously by increasing the appropriations for this every year. Today we agree to an important agreement. At the same time, we say yes to a climate policy that everyone can participate in and that gives us the necessary transition.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e702	Through the Paris Agreement, Norway has undertaken commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 2030. As Norway and the EU have the same objectives, there has been a desire to achieve these objectives jointly. This means that we share EU climate legislation and ensure the same conditions and follow-up as our cooperating countries and partners in the EU have. It is particularly important that we ensure that Norwegian businesses have predictability and the same framework conditions as our competitors in the EU, thereby helping to ensure the most cost-effective climate policy in Norway. This agreement and legislation can be used to enable Norway to achieve its objectives, while at the same time contributing to a technological development that brings benefits in smaller emissions, but not least that it provides us with increased competence and opportunities for our business to increase value creation. Norway is a country that has converted many times. We stand for conversions that each of us will notice in everyday life. But Norway is a society that is well equipped for such transformations. There is good general knowledge and competence in the population and, in particular, a resilient economy. Our business life is well in a situation where they change, have done it for decades – and really do it every day. The climate is a global challenge. Norway — or the EU — will not be able to do so, if large parts of the world do not. Therefore, international agreements and the use of trade are the only viable means of achieving such a transformation and creating a society with smaller emissions. Therefore, it is very important that we relate to results and not symbols, that we put up cost-effective cuts. That's why we work together between nations, so that cuts are taken where they give the greatest possible effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e713	The climate challenge requires a lot of us as a country and as a globe. Today, the Stortinget is invited to agree to the joint objective of achieving climate objectives with the EU through the EEA Agreement. The centre party is, and has always been, for binding international climate agreements. Through the Paris agreement, we have committed ourselves to cutting greenhouse gas emissions by 40 pst. by 2030 compared to 1990. We shall discharge that obligation. The EU has done the same, and last year the Stortinget invited the government to engage in dialogue with the EU on the joint achievement of the target. This means that we must follow the EU rules on how to do this. This may be wise because we can then take emissions where it is most efficient, at the same time we need to have legislation that takes account of some natural assumptions Norway has, and the opportunities that lie in the transition from a fossil-powered economy to an economy built on renewables. When the Stortinget asked the government to engage in dialogue with the EU, it was linked to a clear premise that the government should file a case to obtain the consent of the Stortinge. This would provide a comprehensive and thorough treatment, in which all the consequences of the agreement were highlighted. It is then obvious that the Stortinget is now being invited to conclude an agreement that we do not fully know the consequences of, and that the decision-making basis is, at best, unclear – and that in an area that is particularly important for Norway’s climate change. One of the main natural assumptions Norway has — and our neighbouring countries — is the use of forests. The forest used in a sustainable way has the potential to be one of the most important solutions to the climate crisis because it captures and stores both CO 2 through photosynthesis. In particular, the forest can help to replace fossil energy and it can also replace the fossil raw materials in a quantity of products. Because this is an essential part of our climate change change, Norway cannot endorse a regulatory framework that makes forest use more difficult. Today, in this case, we do not have such a guarantee. On the contrary, according to the government, we cannot expect a response to how much forest Norway will be able to use until nine months after the agreement has been concluded. Furthermore, further uncertainty has been created as to whether Norway will have estimated net emissions or net uptake from forest and land use, the so-called LULUCF sector. Furthermore, the maximum range is drawn as a possible balancing range in order to be able to move in net zero emissions from it. This is in direct contradiction with the objective of reporting a target for logging, which alone could have been positive because it allows for increased sustainable extraction of forest resources. We could say a lot more about this and the uncertainty that has been created by dealing with this matter, but we should come back to that through the debate. The centre party believes that it is irresponsible and wrong to enter into an agreement that offers as much confusion as it does, and that could potentially have significant negative consequences for the use of Norwegian climate-friendly natural resources. In view of the above, the party concerned considers that the only right to suspend the proceedings and postpone the conclusion of the agreement to all consequences related to forestry and agriculture is sufficiently clear. I'll bring this up with the proposal of the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e739	The representative Ole André Myhrvold has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e744	The climate-stripping students have given us the March Earth: Cut the emissions! If there is one thing the story of Norwegian climate policy has taught us, it is that we have to get moving quickly. The current government has for six years headed towards breaking the important goal of the Stortinget in 2012 to cut Norwegian emissions by 2020. In the last year, emissions even went up. There are at least three reasons why Norway should cut its own emissions: The first reason is that as a rich country, we have a moral responsibility. Our emissions are the double of what an average world citizen emits. The second reason is that we can contribute technologies that benefit other countries when they cut their emissions. We need to electrify society, we need to contribute technology to capture and store CO 2, we need to invest heavily in offshore wind power, and we need not least to develop shipping technology to get zero emissions. The third reason why we are going to cut our emissions in Norway is to secure Norwegian jobs. If our business becomes the last days' oil consumers, we will lose in international competition. Therefore, SV today, together with the Workers' Party and the MDG, proposes that we sign up to the agreement with the EU, but that we refrain from using the so-called flexible mechanisms contained in the agreement. The EU does not force us to use them. That's in case of our choice. And if this proposal doesn't get a majority because the government will hesitate to take the cuts somewhere else, another time, by someone else, we're going to work at the first crossroads to get a change of this. Opinions from some government parties give good reason to fear that the flexible mechanisms will be used in large quantities to avoid cuts in Norway. And then what happens? Well, the chance is great that we're paying for emission cuts that would in any case happen. There is a large surplus of allowances in the EU allowance market today, and when the government also opens up to paying for emission cuts that will in any case come in countries like Bulgaria and Hungary, it will help to increase global emissions – not decrease. Defending our own missing emissions – or even worse emissions increase – by paying for emissions cuts in other countries, which in any case would not help the environment. It damages the climate and it contributes to higher emissions. Finally, I would like to address the proposals from the SV and the Greens/Greens/EFA.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e768	The representative Lars Haltbrecken has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e773	The climate challenge is so great that it requires cooperation. The left has participated in all climate agreements that have been concluded in Stortinget in recent decades. We are a yes-to-EEA party, we are in favour of international cooperation. The Paris Agreement is a major international agreement, but we also need Europe to take joint responsibility. The agreement that the Stortinget is entering into today will be important, perhaps the most important for future generations in Norway, because any government has to deal with it. One has to cut, if it doesn't cost money. We need to introduce measures. We're going to cut 40 pst. until 2030 under this agreement, but the Norwegian Government has even greater ambitions than that and aims to cut 45 pst. What we are discussing today is a minimum solution. We have to cut more than that, we have to. It is the common commitments that are important, and it is often the economy that is the best way to get everyone involved. We're not going to talk away from the fact that we have to take joint responsibility, and that's exactly what the red-greens are trying to do here – talk away from the common responsibility we have to take. We're getting a show here in a red-green climate vortex. The Labour Party is due to conclude a peace agreement with LO on oil later today – has proposed that we produce 100 TWh sea winds by 2030 and has subsequently drawn that proposal. It's quite offensive, one could say. At the same time, they have proposed to cut the guarantee of origin for power, on which municipalities will lose money – on the way into an election campaign. There is a little half-hearted outreach about a common emission target today, and one will only discuss the flexibility between countries. The centre party is voting against the whole commitment and will postpone it and wait, while Lars Haltbrecken pointed to the climate strike. We're in a hurry. What's a wait for? This is where the red-greens now have to answer: where is it that one has thought about climate policy when it cracks as significantly as it does here? It's really postponing the measures, which we have to focus on. When you talk about relinquishing responsibility, the growth of the last year comes from the fact that we've cut the palm oil, we've moved the emissions to somewhere else. The biggest challenge is that we do not have biodiesel, and it stems from the time of the red-green government when the user fee was raised in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e789	I thought I would start my speech by thanking the case-speaker both for the good cooperation that was at the heart of the committee, and for a good contribution that I thought was a good tone for the debate. There was a lot there that one could stand behind, especially that the thing we have to deal with today, is actually that when there is now a large size that says yes to this, we have also clarified how to proceed with the Paris Agreement, and made it closer and more concrete to us. It's important. We should bear that in mind, even though the debate is often influenced by the factors of greater disunity. The matter we have for treatment today is based on Report. St. 41 for 2016-2017, on Norwegian conversion into European cooperation. There was a firm commitment to some important principle on which there is broad agreement in this Chamber. It's going to cost pollution, and we're going to have a climate policy that pays off taking the environmentally friendly choices, where we're going to have an instrument that makes the effective cuts take place, for example. through Enova, which is given high-recorded promises under this government, and one will be closer to having committed cooperation globally and regionally in Europe in order to meet the commitments we have seen. It's important. The unity that exists there, and the common understanding, must not be forgotten in all the other known lines of conflict. There are in particular two of those I think will be allowed to express the debate afterwards. The one is about forest and how to count cut from the LULUCF sector. The Right Party, the Progress Party, the Center Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party were in charge of the comments about this when we dealt with the famous big message, where one said that one should take advantage of the action space, and one should receive compensation that reflects that Norway is an important forest land. These things are fixed. Norway has submitted a high emission path and the forest policy is to be decided in Norway. The other conflict line is at the other end of the spectrum. There is a concern from the Central Party that the agreement can provide too little flexibility, while the other concern is from those who say that this agreement is too flexible, and that only one should buy free from spills. That criticism also stems from the fact that the government's policy is that one has the objective of achieving reductions through domestic measures. With the comments that form the basis for this, which a joint committee is behind, one also shows how this, as we are adopting today, is a framework to ensure that sectoral action plans are also taken to achieve that objective. The climate challenge requires more international cooperation – not less. I am pleased that the big crowd today says yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e802	This proposition could have deserved a more understandable name. At the hearing, Nature and Youth proposed the title «The Great Plan for What Norway Should Do Forward To Solve Our Time The Greatest Challenge». It would have been quite striking. Today’s government obviously needs pressure from the EU in climate policy. We in the Greens are hot followers of more international cooperation. But there is no reason why we should confine ourselves to what the European Union is proposing. Norway is a country that can and should take greater responsibility. That is why we are promoting today, together with SV, a proposal of 60 pst. Cut by 2030. Norway has to cut its fair share in Norway. The Granavolden platform states that the flexibility mechanisms in the EU should only be used if strictly necessary. Nevertheless, the representative of the Progress Party, Halleland, has recently stated that he cannot understand where the Minister for the Environment has it from the fact that the whole of the non-quota sector is to be taken nationally. I therefore hope the Council of State can clarify: What, other than the measures and policies that the government itself has, would make the purchase of emission reductions abroad strictly necessary? Because this isn't just rhetoric. It is quite clear that a representative of the Progress Party and a representative of the Green Party will very much disagree when something is strictly necessary in climate policy. So a few words about agriculture. Today, the Greens are voting against crediting forest to agriculture emissions but are therefore not against flexibility over time or between sectors in Norway. Farm organisations are concerned about too much binding and tough emission requirements. I support them in that we have to take care of ourselves here, so we don't pull the baby out with the bath water. We're going to cut emissions, but at the same time contribute to the world's food supply, increase self-sufficiency and food security, in a world with more extreme weather. In order to do this, the government must also do its job. Farmers can improve agronomy, and they can use less fossil fuel. Both parts can and should be contributed by the government. But in order to cut enough emissions and ensure sustainable food production, we don't get away with the fact that Norwegians also have to reduce meat consumption. Such a change in consumption is the responsibility of the government. If we eat less meat, but pay more for what we eat, it also gives more room for sustainability and Norwegian feed, quality, animal welfare and happy farmers who have time for their animals. And that's good for hell. We see that the farmers also want to contribute. In the agricultural settlement of the year, they fought for more money for green and grain production. That's promising. Today, the Greens are saying yes to cooperation with Europe on climate policy, and we are saying yes to taking climate action in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e821	This is a brand day. It's a very important matter. The Storting treats. The agreement on climate cooperation with the EU will provide Norway with a good and binding framework for Norwegian climate policy. We get binding targets and close follow-up. At the same time, the agreement allows Norway to choose for itself which policies we are going to take in order to meet its climate obligations. Norway has notified under the Paris Agreement that we will reduce our greenhouse gas emissions by at least 40 pst. in 2030. In 2015, the Stortinget agreed that Norway should engage in dialogue with the EU on the joint achievement of this emission target. Since then, the EU has completed its climate legislation, and the government, together with Iceland, has negotiated a proposal for Norway's inclusion in this legislation. We have not yet fully achieved our goal. The draft agreement is still under assessment on the EU side. The Commission must first give its assent, and then the Council, where the Member States are represented, shall decide on the matter before a decision is taken in the EEA Committee. The size must agree to the contract before it can enter into force. We have asked for prior consent. This is necessary in order for Norway to be able to participate in the preparations for the climate cooperation itself, starting in 2021, and not to delay the entry into force of the decision. The government will return to the concrete follow-up to the agreement during 2020, when we present a plan to meet Norway’s climate commitments by at least 45 pst. national reduction in non-quota emissions. A joint fulfilment agreement means in practice that those parts of EU climate legislation for the period 2021 to 2030 that are relevant to meeting the 2030 emission targets shall also apply to Norway and Iceland. Norway and Iceland are now being adapted to ensure a level playing field and a level playing field with EU countries. When the agreement is incorporated into Protocol 31 on voluntary cooperation outside the four freedoms, it will not apply after 2030. There are three main elements of the climate agreement with the EU. The first part relates to the so-called effort-sharing regulation. This concerns transport, agriculture, waste and construction, but also some emissions from industry and petroleum. The regulation sets emission targets for each country, and our commitment will be 40 pst. reduction. The second main part of cooperation with the EU relates to forest and other land use legislation. This legislation provides for the calculation and inclusion of emissions and emissions from the categories of forest managed, new forest areas, deforestation areas, pastures, cultivated land and wetlands in the commitment. Each country is required to ensure that the total emissions of all areas in the forestry and land-use sectors are not higher than the total land-take. This is called the net zero obligation in Europe. Thirdly, the agreement contains a robust reporting and enforcement system. I now ask the Stortinget to take a decision on this and agree to the agreement, and I am very pleased that it gets such broad support.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e852	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e857	I would first like to take the opportunity to stress that it is good that the government has obtained this agreement. The agreement is good, and it is also good that it has been made within Protocol 31, which was widely agreed in Stortinget. That's what they say to the Council of State. I want to follow up the questions that several people have now asked about flexibility between countries, because it's actually that when we read the Granavolden statement, we see two sentences, and you quickly get the impression that one sentence is written by the Left and perhaps the Christian People's Party and another by the Right and the Advance Party. That's why we hear a little bit different interpretations. The first says that the aim is to make the reduction nationally, and the second says that, if strictly necessary, the flexibility of the EU framework should be used. Then my specific questions are to the Council of State: When do we know that this is strictly necessary? And does Norway still have a national target? I felt that we had a national target up to now, 40 pst, which can be increased later, but now we don't have it anymore, for both 37 pst, 35 pst. and 25 pst. are possible answers to this, if necessary. So how do we interpret this authoritatively from the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e868	The goal of the government is clear: it's 45 pst. domestic cut in the non-quota sector. We're going to plan it, and I'm going to put forward a plan and come back to the Stortinget in 2020, so Stortinget gets the opportunity to join the same thing. We have also asked the Environment Directorate and the other Directorates to come up with a new climate programme, the order is to submit a plan for at least 50 pst. Cut, cut, Flexibility will not be different from that of Sweden or Denmark or others with higher targets than the obligation. If one does not reach the commitment, it is in the agreement itself that it is then necessary to ensure that the corresponding cut is made in other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e877	I understand and am pleased that the Council of State will put forward plans to point towards achieving a goal where everything is done domestically, but I still get no answer as to how to know that you can still use this so-called necessary exception. That is no longer a clear goal. It's kind of an ambition to reach 40 pst., maybe 45 pst., but you have this state of exception, as you say. Who decides, and when shall it be determined that it is necessary to use it? Would the Council agree that it would have been even easier just to say that Norway has a national target, and that we refrain from using the exemption – sending a signal to both the private and the public sectors that we are actually going to achieve this target within 2030?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e884	Now, this is an agreement that will apply until 2030, and although I have ambitions to sit for a long time as Minister for Climate and Environment, changes may take place by 2030. This agreement provides an obligation that we must comply with at least 40 pst. in Norway, as it now exists, and we are working towards the EU at the same time to strengthen the EU’s target up to 55 p.m., which will again lead Norway. However, the government's policy is crystal clear: we will present a plan for Norway to reach at least 45 pst. reduction in 2030, and that is what our policy is. So I won't be able to decide all governments until 2030, even if I'm going to add up to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e895	There is no doubt that we have a bad time in climate policy, but hassling can also be dangerous. So the central party is of the opinion that there are some ambiguities in the proposal that is now on the table. My question to the Council of State is: What would it have been like to postpone the matter until we had a clear objective for the use of forests and how to achieve the goal?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e900	The answer is that then we have no agreement, because we will not be able to follow what is regulation within the EU. All countries should report their reference paths and have now done so in winter. We also do not want the necessary progress to have the contract work in place in 2021.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e906	I understand that we do not get an agreement until we reach an agreement, but I asked what the consequences would be if we had postponed it until we had the goal of forest clear, i.e. nine months, as the council itself has written. I also wonder, as regards the uncertainties now created about the flexibility between countries and sectors and the government's 40-45 pst target. cut: could the forest sector become a balancing item to achieve that objective?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e911	Now we have very ambitious targets for transport with 50 pst. reduction by 2030, which takes the majority of the 45 pst. Which we have to reduce. We follow the code, we have historical and controllable numbers, and we've put in a forest reference path of up to 14.5 million cubic meters, which allows for a significant increase from what we have today. As it looks now, I don't imagine that forestry will give extra emissions and condition that you have to have emissions cut elsewhere. In any case, this agreement does not lead to Norwegian forestry policy. It's up to us. This will only be about how the calculation is, whether you have to have emissions elsewhere, or whether you get supplements because of the forest.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e916	In an interview with Dagbladet on 7 June this year, the Council of State asks Elvesuen: ‘Can we reduce Norway’s emissions in the non-quota sector by 45 per cent by 2030?’ The answer from the Council of State is: ‘Yes’. The further question is, ‘And it shall be done completely without the use of flexible mechanisms: [[...]] This, however, causes the Energy Policy Spokesman of the Advance Party, Terje Halleland, to say the next day in the Newspaper: ‘I cannot understand where Elvesuen has this from. In that case, it goes beyond what we have agreed in Granavolden." The last time I checked, the Progress Party was still larger than the Left in the sitting government. My question to the Council of State is: Does the Council of State think that the Danish Government's representative, Terje Halleland, is going to go wrong in the Dagbladet on the declaration of Granavolden?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e927	In the Granavolden statement, we're saying we're going to cut 45 pst. in Norway, and we will present a plan for that. In addition, my answer in Dagbladet is that yes, I believe we reach that goal. Reduce by 50 pst. In transport – and we are now working to reach an agreement with agriculture – we will be able to achieve the target of 45 pst. That's what we're going to do with the plan we're going to make for Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e932	I am very pleased that the Council of State is so clear that the 45 pst. cut in the non-quota sector shall be taken in Norway. However, as the Council of State notes, parts of the Storting are also a little nervous in a day like this – which is really a big day, because we are going to conclude the big, powerful agreement on how to do this, with the EU – because we see a disagreement in the government, and we do not see any action today that can get us into goal. We see a government statement that says a lot different, like, for example. also for fossil cars. This is a government that – if it rains from 2013 onwards – has provided tax reliefs of 11 billion. kr, of which 8 bn. kr is for fossil cars. If we continue such a policy, we will not be able to cut all the emissions in Norway. That's why the nervousness is here in the room, and it's not just rhetoric, because if we're going to do this, we need action, and we need other measures not to take them in their entirety.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e937	«We do not see measures?» We have a sale of electric cars that is now up to 45 pst. It was 4-5 pst. in 2013. We have a blending of advanced biofuels, a production that is now being added up to an increase of every single year. We are more committed to the big cities of urban growth than ever before – 50 pst. increase only last year. Only in the spring will we start our own heavy transport support scheme up to half a billion dollars, as a follow-up to the CO 2 fund wish. We have introduced in the revised budget a new system for county councils to put in place zero emissions for speedboats. We're working on a green shipping effort, which is to be presented, where we go through all ship categories. We do things in Norway, especially in transport, which this agreement covers, which is far ahead of what any other country is doing. How can we not see measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e945	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e950	This is a historic day for our contribution to European climate policy. The fact that we, together with the EU, are now able to gather on common targets for non-quota emissions is crucial for achieving the promises needed to meet our climate targets. Furthermore, it is important for a common understanding and the necessity of raising up, it is important for the climate, and it is important for a resilient business that is sensitive to local specific schemes. Today, we are going to join in the joint effort required by the climate struggle, where we are going to be in debt with the other countries in Europe when climate change is going to decline. It is absolutely necessary for Norway to feed both at home and outside. This also makes it easier to contribute to technology development, which will also benefit other countries, and which will create new industries for us here at home, when we have common goals with the rest of Europe. This will mean important steps for Norwegian competitiveness and will contribute to a greater interest in low-emission solutions in international markets, which is crucial for raising e.g. CCS project with capture and storage and to achieve our maritime strategy on zero and low emission solutions. It also suggests that an internal European environment has the same framework within the sectors and, in this way, provides a good framework for business. The hope is that Europe and the EU can become an example of this for the rest of the world. Finally, when the opposition party in this case proposes to include the ETS sector in climate plans and reports, it is good to remind you that Prop. 94 S is about emissions from the non-quota sector, and it goes beyond the scope of this case to include reporting on the quota sector. It is worth noting that the ETS sector is already included in the reporting under the Climate Change Act and Norway is obliged to report under the United Nations Convention on Climate Change. I would also like to add that Norway has an offensive policy to contribute to migration also in the quota sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e965	There are often many paradoxes related to this type of debate. It often becomes a competition for who can set the target the highest, who is the most for cooperation, and who has the very best plan to put forward — in a moment. This has been a trend for today as well. I want to point out a few things about the setting. Firstly, in this agreement, it will be possible for Norway to use something called flexible solutions. But every time someone from the government opens his mouth and speaks about it, we hear quite different opinions. It is therefore not only unclear what this agreement involves, but also how the government will use the agreement. Now we are told from the Council of State that there will be a plan in 2020. We had a climate announcement in 2016 that would give an overall answer. We had this case, which would provide a thorough and comprehensive treatment. And now we're not going to get the answer today either, now we're going to wait until 2020 to get a plan. I think that is a good reason to postpone the processing of the agreement. On the other hand, those who do not want flexibility should not enter into an agreement with the EU. For this agreement, it is precisely based on flexibility. The easiest thing to do if you don't want flexibility is not to make an agreement with the EU and say that we take the cuts at home. We decide to cut, and then we take it home, and then we might have a transfer between the sectors here at home. There's something contradictory here. I have some comments relating to two areas. One is agriculture. Agriculture is an industry based on biological processes. If we were to get into the paradoxical situation that agriculture is faced with stricter requirements than the fossil industry, because they do not have room for flexibility, we have put ourselves in an impossible position, then we have put ourselves in a position where we can reduce food production and increase imports as a result of it – or what we call other industries a carbon leakage. We can't get yours. That is why it is very important for a choice to be made in relation to agriculture. In the case of the forest: the centre party has nothing against the target that the government has sent to the EU. If someone thinks so, they're wrong. What we do have, however, is that today we are going to conclude an agreement without knowing if the goal is accepted, if that goal is what we are allowed to work for. Because then we enter into an agreement without having any guarantee to ensure the forest industry's potential for growth and development. That's why the Center Party wants a postponement. If we are to manage the forest, we also need to know if the targets we have submitted are being accepted, and it is completely blue after today's treatment and before the EU has decided anything about it – in perhaps nine months' time.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e980	In recent years, we have witnessed some opinions relating to the EU. Brexit has shaken Europe, and even Trump has given the EU's opponents support and a couple of pretty tight clamps. Why? The answer is quite obvious: Trump is serving a divided Europe – a Europe that does not cooperate, a weak Europe. Therefore, it is not surprising that Storting's most climate-friendly party is also EU opponents. You think this agreement is scary and will postpone the whole thing. There have been enough delays. At some point, the Centre Party must also wake up. We farmers suffer from climate change. Why doesn't the Center Party see it? Last summer, the toughest summer in many, many decades, I had farmers on the phone crying. The center party has to wake up. For many years, the EU has been one of the most important climate actors both in Europe and in the rest of the world. Cooperation with the EU makes us shoulder to shoulder with the rest of Europe. We're going to cut both at home and outside, and that's a matter of course for most of us. But I'm a little surprised, because this debate is full of cracks on the left side of the hall. The central party won't do anything at home, the Socialist Left Party will do everything at home. If we're going to get to what the world needs, we have to be able to do what we ladies have done for years: do more things at once. We're already one of the world's best countries in climate. We have hydropower, electric cars and heavy stakes in green technology. We work closely with business on innovative solutions, and we dare to think again in Norway. We succeed in a number of fields, and the world looks after us. But that's not enough. We have to be even more ambitious. And that's exactly what this case shows that we are. The government will do more. We've turned ourselves up on oil. We've been surfing the fossil wave for years, and that makes us in Norway have a heavier weight to carry than many other countries. Our children march in the streets and are afraid of their own future. We here in the house have to be our responsibility conscious. We need this deal. We need to cut more, and we need to do it with more. We have to take our responsibility at home, and we have to help other countries do the same. This agreement means that we have to comply with an emission budget by 2030, and the government adds up to further cuts and that these are primarily to be taken home. There is no disagreement between us in the government and, for example, in this case. Socialist Left Party. So today I'm happy. I am very pleased that we have a government that is modern, offensive and green, a government that seeks cooperation with Europe, that seeks to go ahead in international cooperation, and at the same time makes demands on ourselves in Norway. It's the only way we can solve one of the greatest challenges we've ever faced: the climate crisis – and this is an important step.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e997	Norway is the country of opportunity. We can strengthen our welfare state, increase value creation and the number of jobs and at the same time reduce emissions. In recent years, we have seen many examples of skilled workers, offensive companies who want to invest for the future, and who are strengthening their knowledge and wisdom as to how to set up our business. Everything facilitates a proper conversion of the Norwegian economy. What is worrying is that in recent years the Norwegian economy has actually become more oil dependent. In 2018, the external trade deficit for mainland Norway, the trade balance, was 250,000 million. kr. Since 2014, the trade deficit for mainland Norway has unfortunately increased considerably. It's going to be 56 pst. worse in just the four years. This means that there must be a completely different and much better policy from both the magnification and government if we now see that we need to have greater values in the future, more jobs and lower emissions. Everything is at the heart of the forest industry as an important example that is crucial in today's debate. The point is that we need to have greater further processing and industrialisation of the great raw material we have in Norway. If we look back a few years, all the assumptions have really been right overall. We have good access to raw materials. We have had a krone price that has been beneficial to the export-oriented mainland industry. We have professional environments with many good ideas. And at the top of it all, Norway may be even more conveniently located geographically than both Sweden and Finland in order to create new industrialization and exports based on our green gold. I am quite clear that we must strengthen policy both in principle and in practice. Two fundamental issues: the National Assembly of the Workers' Party decided in spring that we need a reinforced bioeconomy risk-relief system. In addition, we need to clean up the kind of things that create barriers to business in Norway. There is a good example of guarantees of origin. We want further processing and value creation in Norway, and then we don't have to charge companies an extra bill to prove that they're using pure force, as we know they are. So two practical conditions: it must be cleaned up in Saugbruks in Halden. It is too bad to wait winter and spring. And we have to plant more forest in Norway, in line with the Workers' Party's alternative state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e1015	Climate change is in progress. The ecological interactions in nature are under pressure. In fact, we have to change our consumption. We have to turn back to what was once based on renewable resources, but is now based on non-renewable resources. Forest is here a key to more renewable material use, energy use and general consumption. One prerequisite is that we get to use the forest. Today the government sells the skin before the bear is shot. It won't be useful in the long term with great ambition if we don't put our biological processes into action to contribute where we can here in Norway. If the EU wants to cut at the most, it is not compatible with Norway’s objectives. How the government estimates soil and forest uptake and emissions needs to be clarified. As I see it, the scientific community is not even entirely in agreement here. Here, the government and the Elvestu speak with two tongues when they report targets for the highest while not knowing how the crop, rather agriculture, is accounted for and will be exposed to the climate accounts. These are two of Norway's largest industries and are crucial to our life base. The government can be as ambitious into the EU as it wills, but the main task of the government is and will be to manage Norway and our resources as best as possible. I believe it is the Left who is speaking from the climate responsibility of Stortinget for our countrymen. The question to the Council of State is whether he sees agriculture and forestry at all as part of the climate change solution in Norway. The importance and opportunities of the forest are highlighted and underlined both in the fifth main report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and in the report of the Environment Directorate, which is called the Knowledge Base for Low Emission Development. There is a broad consensus both internationally and nationally that increasing use and circulation of forest biomass is essential for addressing climate challenges. Prior to the conclusion of an agreement with the EU on emission targets, it has to be clarified that the EU accounting rules for greenhouse gas emissions in forests do not restrict Norway’s opportunities to increase forestry and logging and to increase food production based on Norwegian resources within a sustainable framework. The matter, as it is presented today, does not form the basis for the comprehensive and thorough treatment we would have liked. To enter into this agreement before these questions are settled, the Centre Party considers that it is irresponsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e1024	It is good that the Stortinget today takes a decision that makes us have an agreement with the EU. It's taken us a long time – I think it's taken us too long; it's been four years since the Stortinget thought we should do it. But it's good that we finally get it in place. That's a lot of reasons. But I believe that one of the reasons why we are now getting an agreement is that I hope we can stop using the lack of agreements as an excuse for the lack of action. For four years it has been that to all the climate proposals that have come, it has been said that we have to wait and see, we have to wait for what kind of agreement we have with the European Union. Therefore, it becomes quite free of government parties to say that they are calling for action from the opposition. The opposition has promoted a whole bunch of measures, and each of them has been defeated. It is said that the government is working on the same issues. Well, if they're working on the same issues, it's just to present them to the Storting. State Council Ola Elvestuen has not presented one climate issue this spring, with the exception of the matter we are now discussing – not one single action has Ola Elvestuen come to Stortinget and asked for the approval of the Stortinget. We know the result too well: the result of the government's policy is increased emissions here in Norway. I heard the Political Quarter where the climate minister was at this morning. It may seem like his strategy for the lack of action is to misjudge the debate and make it unclear what kind of policy government actually stands for. With Ola Elvesuen as climate minister, for the first time we do not have a national target for what is going to be Norway's climate policy. The Labour Party is today promoting proposals that we should have a national target for Norway. That's three more reasons. Firstly, emissions actually have to be cut – we also need to cut emissions in Norway. The second is that we believe it is better to invest money in jobs in Norway than to spend the money on buying ourselves free in other countries. And thirdly, we want a climate policy that people actually understand. With today's government, the government doesn't even understand it. When we ask the different government councils what is the government's climate policy, we get completely unclear answers. Ola Elvestuen managed to say that Terje Halleland lied when he met up in Political Quarter today. Terje Halleland says it's completely incomprehensible where Ola Elvestuen gets his arguments. The truth is that it is Terje Halleland who is right, the truth is that the Progress Party is the ones who are right in this case. There is no question of what kind of instruments the government can use. There is a small reservation in the government statement, but that reservation is the Siv Jensen to interpret later, and then we all know what happens to the fasit. So maybe the Young Left is right when they say that the Left can sit with the plan for what we're going to get. But they can't get through it. Therefore, Ola Elvestuen should leave the government, now believes Young Left. Ola Elvestuen has attended a good school at Erna Solberg. All solutions shall be provided in a plan that is strangely planned to be presented one year in time. That has been the answer when we asked them questions in the past. So now, Ola Elvestuen summarized it in his own post by saying that this is going to come back to a plan next year. We don't have a year to wait, and therefore the Workers' Party will continue to promote climate proposals in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e1043	The representative, Lene Westgaard-Halle, says that the Center Party is the most climate-friendly party – reasonable reputation. I would like to take the debate anywhere with the representative on this subject. The centre party has many trust elected with its fingers in practical work, and that is an advantage. The technical basis for the political decisions must be in place, otherwise there will be miserable results and waste of taxpayers' money. The reason for the emissions of CO2 is the combustion or rawness of carbon. It could be fossil carbon, or it could be renewable carbon. The renewable is the solution, the fossil is the problem. The renewable is part of the biological cycle, it's part of ecology, the interaction of nature. The photosynthesis is future. Why? Well, because it gives us renewable carbon. What is renewable carbon? Well, it's green carbon, it's cod, lumber and timote. The primary industries are future. None other than the Center Party says this obvious fact. For example, all carbon containing products needed by humans can be obtained. from timber. It can replace oil and gas. But what does it take for us to do that? Well, it is that the Council of State is helping to improve the profitability of using, producing and processing green carbon – new framework conditions, so that those working on it can make good money, not like today, small money. Young people do not apply to industries with small amounts of money, they apply to industries with good money. International agreements are important. For the Central Party, international agreements in the climate field are totally seagoing, but we need to know what we're doing. LULUCF, Land Use, Land-Use Change and Forestry must not restrict more active agriculture and forestry. For the Centre Party, climate policy must stimulate forest production, while taking several uses and ensuring that a trained youth is trained in future forest use. In today's climate debate there is a lack of knowledge. With the evening position at the head, people living in the error that Norwegian forestry is a climate problem, or that increasing grass production to turn and graze in Norway is a climate problem. These attitudes are misguided. Now, when we want to understand the fact that green carbon has to replace black carbon to get to a green shift, we're going to move on. The proposal of the centre party ‘The government is asking the government to postpone the processing and conclusion of an agreement on climate change with the EU until all the consequences related to Norwegian forestry and agriculture have been clarified’ is quite precise. If we don't have it in place, if you don't have the fossil option in place, how can you do the job? It's going to be waste, it's going to be bad results.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e1058	The President would point out that the characterisation of a co-representative as a reasonable reputation is not to be regarded as a good parliamentary practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e1063	I would like to say a few words about the EU in international climate cooperation, and a few words about forests. It is very important that we take on board that the really great message from the large majority here is that we believe it is right to join the European Union in close, close and committed cooperation. It is in Europe Norway that finds its leading allies in climate policy. It's extra true now that the U.S. on a federal level has abdicated in many ways, and President Trump is trying to undermine many of the progress made under his predecessors. Fortunately, there is some opposition to that among the US states, but it is the federal level that participates internationally, and the Paris Agreement was created because President Obama, President Xi of China and the EU took a joint lead in getting where we are today. So the fact that we cooperate with our closest allies in this matter, too, is extremely important and has great self-value. The representative Marit Arnstad suggested that there was almost no point in concluding the agreement if you didn't want to use the flexibility. I strongly disagree with that, because the agreement has many other important and good aspects: clear land use plans, which we talk a lot about here, a clear emission budget, binding annual reductions and a monitoring, measurement and reporting system where we all – i.e. the EU countries, Iceland and Norway – agree to bind each other to the mast and control each other's compliance. That's what's needed. Many EU countries have managed to cut quite sharply in recent years. Norway hasn't made it, and we need it, too. Another time it might be the other way around, but it also happens. So it's very important that we take on board that there's message number one from the large majority of the committee. Then I want to say, in the extension of the Sandtrøen representative also mentioned in his excellent speech, that the Workers' Party is very concerned that we are using the forest more and more better, and that we are getting wood into more and more areas – that we are using massive trees in construction, that we are using the bioeconomy as best we can, that we are getting fuel and other things from the forest – and we are very busy using forests actively, both in climate policy and in industrial policy in Norway. That is why we also want, and it should be very clear, to facilitate prioritisation, even if flexibility is to be used across sectors. We will also be very actively supporting the work of the government to achieve the rather robust emission path that has been reported to the EU, and will follow it closely. However, it is important to take into account that LULUCF – that is, this new word that stands for ‘Land Use, Land-Use Change and Forestry’ – does not come from the EU. It comes from the Paris Agreement, and the commitments relating to the use of land are, therefore, not an invention in Brussels, but an invention in Paris and a UN obligation. We have those obligations anyway, and we have to deal with them anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e1076	According to the UN, we have to cut half of our emissions by 2030. The government has no credible plan for how to do this. There was an increase in our emissions last year. There is also no plan for a fair transition – instead, we get records in new permits for extraction in the oil industry. In this case, the government proposes to outsource even more of Norwegian climate policy to the EU. Many European countries have cut emissions since 1990, with emissions increasing in Norway. In the case of oil lots, the solution to this quota purchase is: It is simple and cheap, but it is also ineffective, because it does not guarantee emissions cuts. In the EU, there is a large surplus of allowances. Norway can buy profits from other countries, and emissions are on the ground. In addition, the entire organisation of the market proposes that we do the simplest and cheapest measures first. But if we're going to cut all the emissions in 30 years, we can't wait with the difficult things in the end; we have to start with this and now. Red wants a national climate policy that cuts emissions effectively. As long as we don't have it like that, it's better to be part of the agreement with the EU than to do nothing. But then we have to work to close the loopholes contained in the agreement, which means that the government can cover up to 40 pst. of the cut needs through a creative accounting that neither cuts emissions at home nor outside. We're going in too narrow nationally, not through this quota purchase scheme. In the spring, tens of thousands of young people have opted for large and real cuts in Norwegian emissions. If the agreement is adopted in line with the government's wishes, the majority of the population will turn their backs on young people's demands for climate action and for real cut guarantees. Today's young people are going to live with the consequences of a failed climate policy. We need more ambitious targets for national emissions reductions, a stop in oil extraction permits, a massive escalation of climate funding to countries in the south and measures that cut emissions in Norway every year. In other words, we need a real climate policy and not a policy that opens up to buy free from the obligations arising from the purchases of allowances that this agreement opens up.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e1087	I record that the debate does not respond to what a postponement could mean until we have all the consequences on the table. I also record that the contradictions and uncertainties have increased during the debate. In my world, it is important to get all the aspects of an agreement in place before signing. It's also important to read what's written in small letters, so that we know what kind of agreement we're actually committed to. That some parties in this room have a more convenient relationship with the conclusion of the agreement, we have probably over 25 years with the EEA Agreement and EU debates in this country as we know it, and we have seen the consequences. In the case today there are several uncertainties. Thus, if it is considered to use the maximum level as a measure of zero activity in the sector, it would be contrary to that objective, and the maximum target, notified from Norway, which allows for increased sustainable extraction of forest resources and which is otherwise supported by the Centre Party. But the goal is not yet accepted, so there's no clarity on that side. The centre party can see this as nothing other than that the government does not take a concrete position on some crucial issues that the matter raises, either for forest or for the total emission obligation. The Council's response to the Committee also suggests a narrowing of the possibility of using flexibility mechanisms as previously provided by the majority of the population, without being entirely specific as to whether that is the intention. The wording of the Council of State ‘if strictly necessary, the flexibility of the EU framework may be used’ suggests this. In the same letter to the Committee in response to questions about the highest level of Norway if the whole LULUCF obligation is met by limiting the maximum level, the Council of State of the European Union refers to concrete estimates and figures, although they have to be very uncertain to a large extent. The Government, in the opinion of the Centre Party, initially and until now has delivered and negotiated in line with what was foreseen, but establishes new uncertainties in this area. The answers from the State Council to questions addressed to the Committee in this matter represent significant uncertainty about Norway’s fulfilment of the LULUCF obligation at a concrete level. We are therefore not reassured that the Council of State seems to have some sort of expectation that the matter will be resolved while we go. The centre party believes that Norway cannot enter into an agreement without knowing whether the forest industry is actually guaranteed the possibility of growth and development and as an engine in the green shift. The government has also announced a cut. The non-quota sector shall be increased from 40 pst. to 45 p.m., without any concrete action or plan to meet that increase, further contributing to uncertainty around the level of the highest. The Centre Party cannot be involved in this, and it is really quite incomprehensible that the responsible parties in this case can participate in such a ‘happy-go-lucky’ policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e1104	In the case of the last speaker that there is a ‘lucky’ policy, the question is whether this becomes a ‘lucky looser’ or not. It's a big challenge we're facing. But first of all to the representative Björn Moxnes, who goes a little over Norway's climate accounting. Since 2010, we have cut emissions in Norway. We're back where we were in 1995. Then we haven't been able, like any other European countries, to cut as much from 1990 because we had a slightly peculiar Norwegian banking crisis that led to a significant fall in consumption. But we're on the right track, and we have to keep doing it. What we're doing today is not that we get together about an exception, as the representative Espen Barth Eide tries to make it with the flexibility -- we actually gather about a common whip. Together with Europe, we are told to pay if we do not manage to cut emissions. The government's ambition is to cut 45 pst. in Norway and not just 40 pst. If we don't do it, we have to contribute elsewhere. I don't understand that it's unsolvable, it just has to make it better to have that opportunity. But that's not what we're going to use first, first of all, we're going to take out quotas and not use them. This leads to an even greater obligation for ourselves. To the center part, which is very concerned with forest: that's good, the green carbon we're going to spend more of. The farmers of Toten have launched a pilot project to establish biogas plants. 20 farmers and I have bought shares. We shall use the residual waste – yes, in tractors and others – and replace fossil fuel in agricultural machinery. So it's said that there's no doubt that we have a bad time, but we shouldn't be hasty. So the center part presses the big pause button, while SV actually pushes the big alarm button. How the two parties agree on the continuation is a little bit difficult to understand. There will be a higher quota price in Europe. If we're going to cancel out, we're going to have to raise the CO2 price. We are on a very good course in Norway, and the European countries are associated with it. The representative, Lene Westgaard-Halle, was concerned about something very important: Russia is not part of the team, whether it is the ones the Center Party is going to cooperate with to get to the great international climate dungeon. Trump is not on the team. If we had Obama on the team, we would have done this in the light of the Paris agreement. We have to lead, that's also a big part of the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e1120	I don't know if I'm going to take it as a compliment that the eagerness after attacking the Center Party becomes so strong that it almost overshadows part of the speaking time that you could spend on the matter in itself. But it's nice for us, it also gives us the opportunity to say a little bit more about what concerns us. What worries us is not the obligations of the Paris Agreement – they stand firm. Nor do we worry that Norway needs to convert in a number of areas, because that is what we have to do. What concerns us is the consideration of two industries based on biological processes, which are something quite different from the fossil industry that is currently part of the quota sector. Agriculture is concerned. It would have been good if the Right today could have guaranteed that no action will be taken against agriculture that reduces Norwegian food production, thus increasing import needs and thus reducing the degree of maritime supply in Norway. It would have been important. Negotiations with agriculture are under way; they should have been completed by now. It was said in the government's newspapers two years ago that the negotiations would be over in the winter/spring of 2019, but one has still not started those negotiations properly. That's probably pretty good reasons for that. With regard to the use of agricultural flexibility and the need for it: Whom should we believe in? Should we believe in the Halleland representative, or should we believe in the Elvesu State Council? We don't know, but they say two completely different things. In the case of forests, we sign an agreement before we know the content of the entire agreement – we do not know whether what we have notified regarding forest objectives is accepted or not. The centre party will have climate change, but we actually have to do it with measures that work, without affecting the industries that are part of the solution to the climate problem, and the forest industry is definitely part of the solution. The result of today's debate is that we neck-to-head make an agreement that we do not know the whole consequence of. We're going to wait at the level of the state council in 2020, and if we're going to trust what's happened in the last four years, that plan will turn into a new plan that's going to clarify this in a while. It is the object of the Centre Party: to enter into an agreement before knowing whether the objectives set for the primary industries — in particular forests — are accepted in the EU system is not responsible. Having so much uncertainty about what is going to happen to agriculture is also not very good when we now see that there are quite different statements from the Progress Party and the Left on how to use the flexibility of such an agreement. It's that simple for the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e1137	Targets for reducing CO 2 emissions are incredibly important, but the most important thing is practical measures to achieve this. I was very excited today when the Buskerud bench met the TechnipFMC at Kongsberg. They presented their plans for sea wind, where one can generate energy from sea wind that can replace 80-90 pst. the emissions of CO 2 from the cap resulting from the combustion of gas. It's the most important thing. The representative Barth Eide said we have to use the skate more. Yeah, I can't agree more. I'm from the Suckylket Buskerud. We have left one timber-using wood pulp factory that produces book paper – Hellefoss – which now has its case for treatment at the State Council of Elvesuen. If the Council of State does not grant exceptions to any rigid rules, it may soon be history with the only factory. I have experience from Splitkon, a new factory that has invested over 200 million. kr. It produces strong wooden structures, cross-glued wood, to replace concrete and steel. There were some who thought that the factory could get investment money on commercial terms from the Investinor, which was the big flagship in connection with the closure of the Tofte factory in its time, when the Stoltenberg government granted 500 million. kr for that purpose. Does the President know how much came from Investinor? Right, zero, zero dollars. It was Siva who helped to realize that factory. What is at the heart of this is profitability -- profitability in green carbon -- that we know what we're doing and that we have a knowledge-based policy. We cannot enter into an agreement with the EU on emissions targets for 2030 without, for example: to know something about what I have now said about the conditions of the green carbon. The Green Party will have the honour to include agriculture and ice-cream in the climate debate. The government parties don't mention that. But what does MDG policy mean for what Norway looks like? What we're told is that one is more interested in protection than in use, and protection means taking out use. It is important to discuss how agriculture and ice-cream use in Norway should be conducted in order to fill the societal challenge in the future, and I will challenge MDG to debate it. For the Centre Party, the Green Party has changed, which means a more extensive agriculture and ice-cream use in Norway. Then we get more green carbon, and that's part of the solution, not part of the problem. We need to have a more professional, knowledge-based debate on this topic. Employment and action are the most important issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e1160	It's an old political trick that if you have a bad argument, you talk louder or dryer. The representative, Lundtigen, has often followed and is doing so today. I would also have done that if I represented the only party that doesn't want to cooperate with other countries about emissions. Then I had also put the glasses on my nose, taken an easy learning attitude and did what I could to turn the focus – talked a little about photosynthesis and about the green carbon. Because the Center Party doesn't want to focus on what they're doing today. They say the opposite of the Arbeiderpartiet and SV – they push us that drive forests, in front of them, not to bet on climate. Norskog, on the other hand, says there is no reason to wait. They want it. It's a good idea to listen to those who wear their shoes. It doesn't help to call politicians you disagree with, one or the other. I understand that it is difficult to be confronted with the shortcomings of your own policy. It's nice that Lundtegen has today discovered sea winds. We've been working on that for a few years in the Energy and Environment Committee. The government is now opening two areas for sea wind. Welcome after! Lundteigen in the Centerparten must soon wake up, get the glasses back on their noses and understand what we're facing. The peasants have understood what the forest owners have understood, but the Center Party is not listening. Those of us who haven't been locked up in a bubble at Stortinget for 18 years have seen what's going on. We see climate change. We don't want any pauses. We want to act, we want to cooperate, and we want to cut emissions. That's what we're now committed to, with or without the Center Party on the team.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e1172	First to the Centre Party, who wants to wait with an agreement until we have approved the forest emission framework, the reference path for managed forest. It can't be done. We need to take this decision today, simply because those who will eventually decide on the reference track are not the European Commission, but the ESA and the EEA Committee with Iceland and Norway. In order for them to deal with our reference path, we must have signed the agreement. We have to do it first, and then that process could get started. It is therefore not possible to wait. The decision must now be taken. The agreement does not restrict the use of Norwegian forestry, both because we decide, and through the reference path we have calculated. Contrary to the advice we received from the Central Party to follow Sweden and Finland's method, we have not done so. They've had their way. We're following a path and a code where our numbers are both historical and verifiable, and we think it's clear within the code. There's an opening for more bets on the forest. In addition, we have a government that has a stable and predictable policy on biofuels — advanced biofuels — so that this time it can lead to investment in Norway, which was stopped back in 2009–2010. We also conduct a policy to get wood much more into building materials and other products. When it comes to the relationship between agriculture and transport and where the emission reductions should be, we decide for ourselves. The breakdown of inputs — how to implement the emission cuts — is Norway’s decision. We have ambitious targets for transport with 50 pst. reduction. I'm a little surprised by the resistance to the system of flexible solutions itself, because the most climate-efficient thing we can do is put aside – that is. do not sell allowances within the allowance system, set them aside and yet reach the target of 45 pst. reduction in Norway and cut emission allowances. It gives effect to the quota system while at the same time achieving our objectives, which are more ambitious than the commitment, just as Sweden has, just as Denmark has, and as other countries within the EU have.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e1181	The government has large plans to reduce climate change emissions, and both have and will have ambitions to cut domestically. But there are some people who give the impression that this is very simple. There have been figures of 40 pst., 45 pst., 55 pst. – the highest I heard was 60 pst. But there are huge consequences and costs to this game of numbers, and I've asked many times in the climate debate from the red-green side, especially the Green Party, to tell us a little bit about the consequences of a cut of over 60 pst. would be given. The point of international agreements is to reduce climate change emissions, to help each other get cost-effective cut, but this is clearly not true in Norway. Here we are more concerned that we should not be able to buy ourselves free, as we are told, regardless of whether or not it produces reduced emissions. I asked questions to the Ministry of Finance and asked about the costs when a completely independent result buys itself free. It would have cost – of course it could vary – up to 2 billion. DKK per year, i.e. $20 billion. kr in additional costs until 2030. There must be a lot of good climate work you can do for these billions. And this is not certain – that's why we plan to take everything domestically. If the quota prices go up, we get technology that makes us at reasonable cost able to take the cuts that produce results at home, then we'll do it. But if we're going to win this fight, we're going to have to take the cuts where it results.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e1188	It is a good thing to come after the representative Halleland, and I want to hear the representative's view of the answer that the Council of State Elvesuen gave me here – and not least the representative Halleland's view of the Council of State Elvesuen said in the Political Quarter this morning, namely, that the magnificence representative Terje Halleland was wrong when he said what he said to Dagbladet: ‘I can’t understand where Elvesuen got this from. In that case, it goes beyond what we have agreed in Granavolden." Last year we also discussed the climate in Stortinget. Then we discussed the climate announcement to the previous climate and environment minister, from the Right, Vidar Helgesen. There, government parties write the following in a note: ‘The majority consider emissions reduction strategy to be 40 pst. by 2030 must have a high level of ambition while being flexible. The uncertainty associated with emissions development, the impact of climate policy and not least technological developments and the costs of emission reductions will also be significant in the period of commitment 2021-2030.» One thing we have tried to get a response from the Elvesu State Council in this matter is whether Norway will use the possibility to transfer allowances from the EU ETS to the non-quota sector. The agreement opens up so we can spend 6 million dollars. tons on it. But in the position taken by the previous communication, the debate last year, the members of the Committee from the government parties further wrote: ‘The members of the Committee of the Right, Advance Party, Left and Christian People’s Party have noticed that the government takes this uncertainty into account by laying down a strategy based on measures that add to significantly more than the necessary emission reduction, while making full use of the flexibility of the European Business Quota System.’;» This has been referred to by some representatives of the government parties as the new climate agreement, a climate settlement as when the government parties are behind it. My question to the government parties is, Will they no longer stand by the comments they made last year? Will they no longer make full use of the flexibility of the European ETS, as they said at the time?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e1210	The representative Ketil Kjeseth has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e1215	I think it's interesting that this has become a debate on forest, because of them a little over 52 million. Today’s tonnes of emissions from Norway account for about 5 million tonnes for agriculture. tonnes. So that's the small part of the discussion that's about today. So the way I interpret the Center Party, you're willing not to go to government in the future because you actually disagree with the Workers' Party about this proportion. And agriculture is going into this, they want to be on the load. They are changing: I have mentioned the biogas – precision farming, electrification, electric tractors are on their way in. In the case of forests, the forestry organisations say that this is much more than you can do today – which is part of this agreement. Norway chose a different route from that of Finland and Sweden, and as the Senterpartiet wanted last year. 13 months ago, one thus agreed to this, and Investinor was the red-green crisis package for forestry – it was not today's government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e1220	Marit Arnstad has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e1225	Speaking of high and low arguments: To say of others that they have been ‘closed to a bubble on the Stortinget for 18 years’, and implicitly that they therefore do not know what they are talking about — to say it about a co-representative, it is drudgery, that. This at least indicates that a lack of arguments. The Central Party has asked for two important, but simple guarantees here today. It is that what we have reported in the forest is accepted – a guarantee for it – and that flexibility will be used in such a way that we do not have to reduce Norwegian food production: reduce Norwegian maritime supply and increase imports. Sick if the council says we can do all of this, we haven't got those guarantees. That's why the Center Party is voting for a postponement today. And then I have to say to the representative, Kjeseth, agricultural products are included in the transport accounts in the context of climate change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e1236	As this debate is now slow, but certainly going to the end, I would like to stress again that it has been a good debate and that it is very important that we take with us what is the main message, namely that there is a very large majority in this Chamber for close, close, committed and binding cooperation with our closest international partners in this field, i.e. with the EU countries and Iceland, and that it should stand as a prime impression. Then I also want to say that a good reminder rule for climate policy is that it is 60 pst. discharge, 30 pst. land management and 10 pst. All other things. It is therefore important that we take into account in the debate on LULUCF and forestry and agriculture that all sectors have to contribute. No sector may be exempted. Nor should this be made a discussion of whether you are in favour of or against a sector. There is no one who believes that you are for or against transport or for or against industry. You are, of course, for both transport and industry, but you're concerned that it's going to happen in the most sustainable way. There are, as many have mentioned, very many positive climate contributions from forestry, for example. the use of wood in construction and also the replacement of fossil sources. It's absolutely right and very important. So it's like in that sector, too, there's emissions. It's both positive and negative; it works on both sides of the accounts. For this reason, it is very important that the contribution of agriculture to climate change is properly taken into account, both where certain forms of carbon capture contribute to increased emissions and where sensible, long-term management contributes to sensible carbon capture. It was said, I think it was by Marit Knutsdatter Strand, that you had to know what the calculation of this was, and what it meant for forestry, before you could agree to it. I think that an even better idea is to figure out if you have a proper calculation. And once you've figured out if the calculation is right, you can do priorities, both between sectors and in other ways within it. For all sectors, we need to know if we are going to succeed in achieving the climate targets. Finally, I would like to say to those who have almost tried to present it as if those who do not want to use flexibility will not help out: Norway has a long tradition through, for example, Norway. rain forest management, which is world-leading, through comprehensive climate assistance, through technology transfer and, in fact, also through EEA funds, so there is nothing to prevent us from contributing to climate change elsewhere. We have to cut both at home and outside. Our message is that we should not replace national obligations by buying ourselves out – we should do both. We're going to have high targets at home, and we're going to have ambitious plans for how we contribute out. I would also like to thank you for a good debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e1253	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e1258	One can count on so much, but in the case of forestry, there's no doubt that the better the forest grows, the more we can obtain carbon from the forest, the better it is. And then it's a fact that when you cut a tree, there's some twigs and roots that rot, and then CO 2 is released. We need to be clear. So the Council of State told Elvesuen that it is we who determine the use of agricultural and forestry land in Norway. Why then send so-called forest reference path to the European Commission — when you can do what you want? The centre party is seaworthy for everyone to contribute. So we have to discuss how we run our land and forest, so that we get the best result. We need to get quality and volume, and we need to get biodiversity. It requires profitability in the way it operates.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e1270	The representative Lene Westgaard-Halle has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e1276	I think the centre party should start listening and not be so very indignant when they get a response to the charges. I think they should listen to Norskog, I think they should listen to the forest owners, I think they should listen to the other red-green parties. Today, we say yes to cutting emissions, yes to escalating efforts, and yes to climate. Today we make the other Paris Agreement more concrete. We are joining forces with a forward-looking EU and we are also finding solutions outside the ETS Directive. At a time when the rest of the world is breaking up more and more, we are going to stand together, alongside Norway and Europe. This is a brand day. I would like to thank you for a good debate and for a particularly good cooperation within the Committee. I know that a lot of people in the committee agree with me on this: we have a particularly good relationship with each other. I think that is very, very good for the climate work in Norway as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e1285	I'll try to be short. First to the forest: it's just that we can't postpone the reference path. It is only assessed when we have an agreement on the agreement. So the decision has to be whether you're for or against. It doesn't guide how we do our forestry, and which policies we conduct. But with the reference path that we have, it gives room for significant increase. So a comment to the representative Haltbrecken, who made comments from the treatment last year: the big difference is that we have a new government platform, which is just saying that the goal is to cut 45 pst. in the non-quota sector in Norway and plan to do so. Then it's critical that that plan comes next year. I think it's wise that we carry out a new Climate Change Course, and that we now have a thorough investigation from the various levels just in order to be able to lay the plan that will be the basis from 2021 until 2030. As I have said before, the measures are not something to wait for – I do not know where the Aukrust representative has been in the last year. We have presented, as I mentioned earlier, both the follow-up of CO2 funds, what is involved in speedboats, the increase in Enova, the increase in environmental technology systems, in recent years we have put in place new climate action against municipalities, the strengthening of Nysnø – there are measures for implementation. But what I have registered is that one of the measures that has also been in Stortinget, to restrict the cultivation of ants, voted against the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e1298	What has become clear in today's debate is that if you are engaged in climate policy, you cannot vote on one of the red-green parties. It's because the red-green parties are going to cooperate with the Center Party. We hear that the Central Party will delay climate policy and not enter into the important agreement for which there is a large majority here today. I hardly dare think about how the debate would be about this internally in a red-green government. The center party says they're worried about the forest industry. But the forest industry is not worried. They have been out in the nation and said that this is not a problem – enter into this agreement. The centre party can't even listen to the industry they're later protecting. We're adding up to increased logging in Norway, and the Center Party should have got it. Then it is the representative Haltbrecken of the Socialist Left Party, who first points out the size of the Left in the lines with the Council of State. Well, then he should know what he's talking about. SV was not very big in the red-green government, either. But the strange thing about the representative Haltbrecken is that he is unable to see that the policy now implemented by a bourgeois government, the non-socialist government, is far more ambitious than any red-green party has ever been established in government. That's what the representative, Mr. Haltbrecken, knows. Because before he became a politician, he agreed that the Socialist Left Party had too bad climate policy in government. Nevertheless, that's what he chooses. And now he's in the UK and he's against more renewable from Norway, he's against cooperation in Europe on renewable energy, and he's against Norway contributing materials to electrification. This is not climate policy. Finally, the representative Barth Eide, who in line with the Council of State, says that he believed Norway had an emission target, until today, where he has kind of realised that Norway does not have an emission target. But then it's not about getting into the rhetoric you've had for a long time, because he's always said that he doesn't think Norway has an emission target, although he can only read what's in the government platform. I hear the Aukrus representative claim that they are proposing so many measures. Do you remember, President, when they proposed measures for emissions reductions in 2020? None of the proposals would provide for emission reductions by 2020. There's nothing new from the red-green, and it's serious. Finally, I would like to say that I am pleased with the broad agreement on this agreement. This means that Norwegian climate policy will take us further, because the government and the majority parties will of course follow up this consensus with the concrete, new measures for emissions reduction.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e1315	The representative Lars Haltbrecken has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e1320	A few months ago, the representative Stefan Heggelund and I responded to some climate denials on Facebook. We did that because we were busy letting the facts substantiate the basis of the climate debate. It may be good to remind the representative Heggelund of this, that the facts will have the basis of the climate debate also from the Stockholm pulpit. If you look back at the red-green years, the emissions actually went down – not enough, in close enough, but they went down. Last year, under the citizens, emissions went down somewhat, thanks to the fact that the bourgeois government bathed Norwegian climate policy in climate-damaging, rainforest-causing palm oil. This year, emissions are rising. It shows the latest figures from the Statistical Central Bureau.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e1327	Stefan Heggelund said that this government is pursuing a much more ambitious climate policy than previous governments. Well, this government must stop being so self-satisfied. The truth is, emissions under this government are increasing. It's kind of funny to hear it in a 40-pst debate. cut by 2040 when the response for 2018 was increased emissions. It's not that we're not exactly on track to achieve the goals we set. We're not on the route at all. Erna Solberg went to the elections to strengthen the climate agreement. Now it's been six years, and we know what's going to be the fasit. We're not going to be close to reaching the climate agreement, it's the phase with Erna Solberg as Prime Minister. She's got it right when she says it's tough to be a climate minister in a government where people aren't so concerned about it. But it's a pretty tough sentence on her own efforts as Prime Minister, that she can't lead the country through the great change we're going to go through. They're asking if there's any disagreement between the different parts of the opposition. We're different parties, and obviously we have different positions in some things. If I had been in government, I would have been more concerned about the disagreements within the government – it's a big crack. It's amazing that a government council and a big-time representative stand and accuse each other of lying in the Storting's pulpit. The climate minister said this morning that the potter Terje Halleland is talking nonsense. Terje Halleland replied that he cannot understand where the climate minister gets his policy from, at least it does not come from the government statement, as he himself says. Terje Halleland was concerned about the consequences of climate policy and felt that climate policy had too many consequences. I am most concerned about the consequences of a lack of climate policy: we are experiencing major destruction, and if we do not act, the politicians of the future will do nothing but deal with the great man-made climate change. But I think Terje Halleland's posts were also interesting, because he's the one who actually says what the government's policy is in this area. It was well illustrated in the statements of the Haltbrecken when he read out the comments of the four parties that make up the majority. Finally, Stefan Heggelund said he thought there were too few new proposals from the opposition. The opposition must occasionally re-examine the same proposals, since our proposals are being voted down. But we are also promoting new proposals. At the latest in spring and autumn, we promoted 40 proposals. There is nothing from the government, there is not a single proposal for the Stortinget from the government. I'll end by saying it's bold of the climate minister, when he says what proposals he's concerned about, talking about a CO2 fund. Well, there he has shut the door again for business. Stefan Heggelund scolded out the NHO to be too busy with the climate. He also mentioned the climate cure. In the revised budget, the only so-called investment from the climate minister was a cut for climate change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e1344	The representative Stefan Heggelund has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e1349	The representative Aukrust just stood in the mood of the CO2 fund proposal that would give huge tax relief for emissions, which the Workers' Party thought we were going to go for. No, we have a much better solution. He claims that they are promoting their own proposals again and again. No, they're promoting the government's policy again and again, and then later they're like something new they've come up with. That doesn't serve the climate debate. So it's not right that the emissions in total have gone up under this government. That's not true, but there was some emission increase last year. Why? Because we cut palm oil consumption in Norway by two thirds. I think that the parties that voted in favour of a tax on sustainable biofuel production, which disrupted the development of this industry in Norway – a mistake we had to correct – should be very careful when they talk about sustainable biofuels.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e1356	The representative Ole André Myhrvold has spoken twice in the past and gets the word for a brief remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e1361	It's interesting to hear the representatives from Right, Westgaard-Halle and Heggelund. The rhetoric stands at 20 in style, but the content gets several lower style characters. I'm a little surprised that you're more concerned about internal affairs in a future government when you see what challenges you have in your own government. Yes, Norskog was early outside and said they would join the goal. The centre part will also join the target, the reference track that has been reported, but the problem is that we do not know if the reference track is standing. That's why there have been signals, even to us in the Center Party, after the committee gave its opinion, that you're happy that the Center Party has the reservations you actually have here. We have an agreement on the table we do not know the consequences of, and then it is good practice to read it in small writing and get guarantees.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e1368	I had not intended to take the word again, but triggered by the representative Myhrvold's point I do. I think the Council of State has pointed out – I think it is right – that there is a logical failure in that argument, because it is not possible to see what the reference path will be without being a participant in the agreement. So you have to wait forever, because it won't be possible to do these two things together. If that's right – the government council nods, and I think it's right, as I've read it – it's not possible to implement what the central party is proposing, because the central party has actually not suggested that we vote against it at the end. They have asked for a postponement to be brought on the track, something that cannot be brought on the track until the agreement has been adopted. At least that is how I understand the matter. I just want us to take it with us at the end of the debate, that there's an insight we've got through the discussion today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e1374	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e1390	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the President, 5 minutes to each of the other party groups and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e1399	The aim of this study has been to assess the extent to which management is concerned with the environmental and fisheries aspects of the petroleum industry in the northern regions, and what is the cause of any lack. The investigation mainly covers the period 2015–2018. There is a joint committee that is behind all the comments, with a small addition from the Center Party, for which I assume that they themselves will do well, and I would like to thank the Committee for good and constructive cooperation – which has therefore resulted in us all being behind the comments. The leadership activity in the Barents Sea has increased over the last few years, and Norway is under international agreements and petroleum law the obligation to sustain the environment and fisheries in connection with the petroleum industry. There are many instances involved, and the judge is responsible for safeguarding security, the environment and preparedness. The Ministry of Oil and Energy, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the Ministry of Climate and Environment are responsible for setting up and following up the justice system. reducing the impact on the environment, reducing fishing and reducing the impact in the event of an accident. The Ministry of Transport of the Coastal Agency is responsible for State oil protection and the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries is responsible for fisheries policy. The investigation also has its origins in both petroleum slag, pollution law and natural disasters, as well as in a number of regulations and large-scale notifications. The main findings of the National Audit Office are: In the allocation of extractive solvents, the Ministry of Oil and Energy has a resource perspective in line with the petroleum law. The Ministry of Climate and Environment is too small to provide a better basis for assessing risk-reducing measures. There is too little interaction between the Ministry of Climate and Environment and the Ministry of Oil and Energy in the field of development plans. The Seismic Advisory Board of the Governing Boards is not sufficiently systematic and knowledge-based. The powers of government have not ensured that oil preparedness is adequately adapted to the specific circumstances of the northern regions. The Ministry of Transport has done too little to strengthen research that can contribute to new and more efficient oil protection technologies for the north. The coordination of oil protection in the Barents Sea is not sufficiently clear. The Environment Directorate and the Coastal Agency do not make good use of each other’s competences to ensure robust and effective preparedness. From the main findings of the National Audit Office, I would like to point out in particular that several departments and other governmental bodies have different procedures, but that they have not had good enough interaction between themselves. The Oil Directorate and Petroleum Control have close contact with the operator during the development and operation planning phase, PUD, and are working to ensure that the environment is protected within frameworks and regulations. The National Audit Service criticises the lack of involvement of the Directorate of Oil and Petroleum Control in the assessment of the costs and benefits of environmental measures. Only after the PUD has been approved will the environmental authorities start to process the application for permission under the pollution laws. This may help to ensure that measures that can reduce the negative impact on the environment are not time-consuming and adequately assessed in the planning phase for development. The role of the environmental governance powers is thus limited to being a hearing party in this process. When the Directorate for the Environment first starts to deal with the application for a permit under the pollution law once the development has been completed, it may be unreasonably costly to implement measures. The Committee agrees with the Riksrevision when they point to the importance of more active environmental governance powers in the PUD process, in order to contribute to a sound assessment of the benefits and costs of solutions that reduce the impact on the environment. The Committee shares the Riksrevision's view that it is critical that the power of petroleum control and the powers of environmental control do not interact better with the planning, treatment and follow-up of development plans in the petroleum sector. This is a report that examines the efforts of the government to conserve the environment and fish at the petroleum industry in the northern regions. When it comes to oil protection, the Riksrevision has not considered the system as the emergency response on a Norwegian base, with cooperation between the companies and the governmental powers, through state preparedness. It should be mentioned here in order to complement the picture, and it may be a weakness in the report that he concentrates on the role of the executive when other external actors are also important in order to get the overall picture. It is the individual operator who is responsible for ensuring the necessary preparedness, and the Coastal Agency has regular exercises with NOFO, which are carried out on behalf of the operators on a Norwegian base. A Joint Committee supports the National Audit Office's recommendations in relation to the Ministry of Oil and Energy to: be more open about the evaluation and handling of the audio recordings for proposals for the disclosure of exploitation rights have a better professional dialogue with the Ministry of Climate and Environment on exploitation conditions where there are specific challenges; involve the powers of control in the management of expansion plans in the petroleum industry; In cooperation with the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries, the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries shall implement measures to make the Seismic Advisory System more systematic and knowledge-based and ensure that the Seismic Advisory Service also takes care of marine mammals. The Committee also supports the National Audit Office's recommendations in relation to the Ministry of Climate and Environment and the Directorate-General for the Environment to: strengthen cooperation with industry in order to increase the quality of environmental risk analyses and preparedness analyses; consider initiating the examination of applications for a permit under the pollution laws previously granted for field constructions in the petroleum industry better handling of the matter and the requirements imposed on the operators’ oil protection preparedness; Follow up more closely on municipal preparedness in cooperation with the Ministry of Transport and the Coastal Agency The Committee also agrees with the National Audit Office's recommendations in relation to the Ministry of Transport and the Coastal Agency that: assess measures to strengthen research into new methods of oil protection in ice; ensure better knowledge of the content of the operator's contingency plans; assess the national emergency response system in the north by carrying out preparedness analyses and exercises in cooperation with industry and other governance forces; The Ministry of Climate and Environment and the Ministry of Transport are essentially in agreement with the National Audit Office's recommendations, and they state in their replies that they will follow them up. The National Councils of the Ministry of Oil and Energy do not recognise in the Riksrevision’s assessment that there is little interaction between the petroleum control powers and the environmental control powers in the planning, processing and follow-up of expansion plans in the petroleum industry. A joint committee sees it as critical that the department and subordinate body concerned do not deal better with the environment and fisheries at the petroleum industry in the northern regions. The Committee notes in particular the need for the Ministry of Oil and Energy to have a better dialogue with the Ministry of Climate and Environment in order to identify the need for stricter conditions in extraction permits where there are specific challenges. It is the government that has to take responsibility for ensuring good coordination between departments in order to preserve the health of development. This is not least important in the Barents Sea, where there is an increasing critical debate both nationally and internationally on Norwegian oil industry. Therefore, it is also important that one has good cooperation relations between the actors, and that one takes the environmental perspective into account, but also that one can document it, and that there is openness about the assessments. The question of oil conservation in the Barents Sea will become more in the future, and we also need to respond better, and we cannot have a sedentary impression that the Ministry of Oil and Energy does not involve the Ministry of Climate and Environment, etc. as good as the Storting expects. This national audit report covers a total of five departments: Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs Ministry of Climate and Environment Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries Ministry of Oil and Energy Ministry of Transport Throughout lack of coordination and interaction, where all the departments, apart from the Ministry of Oil and Energy, mainly join the National Audit Office's recommendations, do not mean here any single criticism of the Ministry of Oil and Energy. It is a collective government responsible for good interaction between ministries, and the Committee expects the government to take action to bring together better care of the environment and fisheries at the petroleum industry in the northern regions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e1535	What do the government in the different departments do to save the rich food chamber we have in the northern seas, when the petroleum industry comes further north? The truth is, after reviewing the Riksrevision report, that it is not done enough. It's in these areas of herring, solder and cod are about their whole lives. The fish doesn't just give life to itself. He provides the basis for settlement and workplaces along the whole coast. In Finnmark, almost every fourth job set takes its living bread from the sea. Marine industry in North Norway employs more than 31,000 people in the region. Marine nutrition alone has more than 20 fish reception, slaughter and processing operations in North Norway. Last year more than 990,000 tonnes of wild fish were sold ashore, which amounts to about 40 pst. of the total volume here to land. In other words, there are priceless values for Norway and Norway. So what is the coordination in the government? Don't delete well enough, says the Riksrevision. It is easy to be told after reading the report. The more petroleum industry comes to the Barents Sea, the more it can affect the environment and fisheries. One dares almost not to think about what an accident in the petroleum sector may have an impact on these vulnerable and valuable areas. The National Audit Office has looked at how five departments, each individually and collectively, have a great responsibility to cooperate for the benefit of the environment and fisheries in the north. This is precisely why it is disappointing that the Ministry of Climate and Environment does too little to ensure a better basis for assessing the nature of risk-reducing measures that can be implemented. It is a clear recommendation from the Riksrevision that comes to three departments in this report. Both the Ministry of Oil and Energy, the Ministry of Climate and Environment and the Ministry of Transport are getting a clear call to do a better job. The centre party fully supports that call. It may be the Oil and Energy Department in particular that doesn't know what the report says. It is worrying if the oil industry controls too much of the setting and conditions of the Ministry of Oil and Energy. Together with the Ministry of Food and Fisheries, they must provide a more systematic and knowledge-based Seismic Advisory Service. There is a lot to take up here, for this work is not expected. The North and the ecosystem are too vulnerable to it. There will always be tensions between departments when it comes to what they care about. Then, of course, it is not better that there are great tensions between the parties in government. With a government council from the Left in the Ministry of Climate and Environment and a government council from the Advance Party in the Ministry of Oil and Energy, a question can be asked whether that is what makes them so different about what appears in the report. Unfortunately, state councils do not find any help in the government statement either. There is nothing about better coordination for the benefit of the environment and fish. But if they want to, they can get help, not least from the Professional Forum for Norwegian Sea Areas. In February of this year, the Forum recommended the revision of the management plan for the Barents Sea and the sea areas outside Lofoten. There will be too little time to go into that work in the context of the Riksrevision report, but it will be helpful to find it in the underlying budgets. There is a joint committee that is behind most of it, but we from the Center Party chose to have an extra point, where we indicate that the municipalities of the north have a heavy responsibility for the coastal protection construction. Nevertheless, there is little support to getting from a state that does not have the power to coordinate its efforts. We assume, therefore, that the municipalities must become much more involved in this work and at the same time receive the financial resources it requires. It is important for us to be able to achieve a better interaction, where one can finally do what we have to do: secure both the oil industry and the long-term industries from the fishing industry, and so that it will last for a long time. I would like to thank the Committee and not least the rapporteur for his good cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e1560	The Norwegian administration of the seas will be at the head when it arrives in the North Sea. The Barents Sea is on the one hand the most important sea of Norway and has been it for thousands of years. That's what much of what we fish and live off in fishing comes from. The fish spawn other places, but they looked northward and grew up there. There is a growing area for large parts of the fish species in the entire North Callot. This is also a hard area where you have to operate in much more complicated ways than elsewhere. So this is where all of our codes are headed. I would like to thank the Riksrevision for a thorough report. Here one has gone into a very important and critical field and discovered systematic failure in how the government works. It's all about how a worker works with the exploitation rights process and the conditions relate to them, how a worker works with risk mitigation measures, how a worker works with plans for development and operation, and in what way the environment and the kind of care come in there, to all the preparedness – oil protection preparedness – dimensioning and how this is adapted to the north. There is a big missing in all areas. It is also quite right, as the case-speaker said, that it is not just the subject of the Ministry of Oil and Energy that gets criticism. There is also criticism of the Ministry of Climate and Environment and the Ministry of Transport for the lack of preparedness, etc. But the main gravity is in the Oil and Energy Department. What's going on is that one doesn't involve the environmental governance, one doesn't take the preparedness in particular. What's interesting about the Riksrevision is that the Ministry of Climate and Environment recognises findings and says OK, here's something we have to deal with, while the Ministry of Oil and Energy doesn't recognize itself in the description. Today, a joint committee supports the assessment carried out by the Riksrevision. Then that's it. Then we expect the Ministry of Oil and Energy and the other departments to follow this up to the point and the point. Over the years, I have had several conversations with colleagues from abroad about the perhaps strange aspects of administration and how it goes in Norway. Coordination of departments is difficult in Norway. There are not so many areas where we have experience of good coordination between departments. We also have a strange tradition of individual ministries in some areas perhaps ignoring the governance of political governance. In this case, we are in such a field. The response from my colleagues is that they shake their heads. In their value, this is totally unusual. There's something that you might have gotten used to in our country, i.e. in Norway, but for them, this is totally unacceptable. As one person said, government outside democratic control is totally unacceptable in our country at any rate. Here we have a situation where the Ministry of Oil and Energy does not choose to involve the environmental governance powers at an early stage. Hearing input was rejected. Environmental assessments are not public. We or others have no possibility – in any way – to follow it. In this way, we have a major problem, which in the worst case can lead to serious events in the most important sea of the nation of Norway. If serious events occur, we also do not have a preparedness that allows us to hit this as quickly as possible and handle it in the best possible way. So this is not just a critical matter – it is also alarming that the criticism that has come is rejected by the Ministry of Oil and Energy. I expect the government here and now to rise above it, take the assessments of both the Riksrevision and the Storting, inwards, and that one gets this into a proper and proper track, so that we can secure these sea areas in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e1579	First of all, I would like to say that the study by the National Audit Office on the state of the environment and the fisheries sector in the North has been extensive. I believe that the Riksrevision has done a thorough investigation and that the findings in the report provide a good basis for assessing and implementing improvements in the individual areas. In my area of competence, the National Audit Office has been particularly concerned with risk mitigation measures, environmental risk analyses and that oil protection must be well adapted to the specific circumstances of the northern regions. There are several vulnerable areas in the north. The Barents Sea has one of the world’s highest densities of seabirds, and Norway has a special responsibility to manage several species. The sea area is also an important habitat and spawning area for fish. It is therefore essential that emergency preparedness in the north is sufficiently robust and effective to avoid damage in the event of an oil spill. I am already following up the recommendations within my area of responsibility. Here I would like to mention a few points: Oil preparedness in the north will be a central theme for the revision of the Barents Sea and beyond Lofoten management plan to be submitted next year. Authorities will cooperate even more closely than today on the preparedness for acute pollution in the north. This will include, inter alia: become closer cooperation on requirements for the preparedness, follow-up and supervision of operators. The regulatory framework and the requirements for emergency pollution preparedness shall be strengthened. This is what the Directorate for the Environment is doing in cooperation with other authorities. There is also dialogue with the industry. The Directorate-General for the Environment will also follow up on environmental risk work in industry even more closely, as recommended by the National Audit Office. However, I would like to add that the basis for the emergency response requirements is based on all available knowledge and not solely on environmental risk analysis. The Directorate-General for the Environment looks at the different possibilities for earlier intervention in the planning of petroleum activities by operators. Just before the start of activity, new requirements can become both expensive and demanding. Early involvement is therefore important to ensure that the necessary environmental measures are implemented in a cost-effective way. The interaction between the Ministry of Climate and Environment and the Ministry of Oil and Energy is also a subject of the Riksrevision, and I and the Minister of Oil and Energy have a good dialogue on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e1606	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e1611	It is clear here that there are different views in different departments. The reports of the National Audit Office are quite different, especially from the Ministry of Oil and Energy in relation to the other departments. How does the Minister feel that feedback is so different?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e1616	Now I focus on the areas that are going on in my field, which I have also explained. We're going to take the video from the Riksrevision seriously and we're going to review it. Otherwise, the Minister for Oil and Energy has the primary responsibility for extraction permits and development plans. It is the King of State Council who formally grants extraction permits, but in advance it is a common government that has a single decision, in which the views of the Ministry of Climate and Environment are also involved. So it's a thorough process, but there's always room for improvement. Although this is part of a joint government decision, what I say is that I and the Minister of Oil and Energy have a dialogue on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e1623	It is a challenge when it comes to oil protection. It is a long-distance country, and there are many smaller coastal municipalities that feel unsafe in terms of the task to be taken care of at possible emissions. What can the Minister do to make them come out stronger and feel more secure that they can master a difficult situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e1631	Now there are several things. The first, as I say, is that oil conservation in the north will be a central theme of the Barents Sea and the offshore management plan to be presented next year. As far as the authorities are concerned, it has been pointed out that we need to make better use of the competences between the Environment Directorate and the Coastal Agency and to have better interaction there. We'll look at that, too. Then it is to follow up the emergency plans that the operators have, but also the municipal emergency plans. In particular, municipalities should take the smaller emissions that are acute – we have to support them – while also being part of it if major events occur.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e1638	One of the findings of the Riksrevision is that when a person deals with the rights under the pollution laws of plans for development and operation, they call them PUDs, the environmental authorities come on the track after the PUD has been approved. Will the government now ensure that the environmental assessments related to the pollution laws are done before the PUD?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e1647	After all, the main framework is to be included in the management plans, and we are to have a new management plan for next year with a revision of the Barents Sea and the Lofoten, but also an update of the other two management plans. So it's the government in common and the King in the government council that makes decisions about extraction permits, and there's, as I say, a dialogue, and that's the interaction within the government we're working with. And, as I also said in my reply, the Environment Directorate sees various opportunities for earlier intervention in the planning of petroleum activities by operators, and early involvement is important to ensure the necessary environmental measures. So this is a work that is in the Environment Directorate now.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e1652	The Council of State came to it at the end of its article – that is, ‘previously’. When one has said that one largely agrees with the findings of the Riksrevision, and one of the findings is that the environmental authorities only come after the PUD and start to deal with it under the pollution laws, and the Council of State then says that one will come 'previously', will it mean that the environmental authorities at that stage, in the same way that the oil authorities cooperate with the operators, will also be involved in assessing measures ahead of the PUD permit?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e1657	Now this is a work in the Environment Directorate, which looks at different opportunities. We have a dialogue with the Minister of Oil and Energy. And then, as I have said, it is important that the Ministry of Climate and Environment is in the forefront of setting the framework in the management plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e1662	To follow up on what was now the subject: the report clearly states that the Environment Directorate recognises the problems that exist and will try to address them. But then the oil and energy minister doesn't recognize the problems that exist, and then I'm excited if he's going to get hold of them. When the representative of Knag Fylkesnes pointed out that the Environment Directorate only begins to deal with the application under the pollution law after the PUD has been dealt with, it is a common problem. So, two more departments are needed to cooperate, and that is the Ministry of Climate and Environment and the Ministry of Oil and Energy: will the Minister of the Environment make sure that his department gets into the proceedings earlier in the future? Is that what he's talking about?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e1669	It's, as I say, the three things: it's the management plans that set the framework, and then it's the decision on the extraction permits themselves, which is, of course, an overall decision by the government. There is a dialogue between the Minister of Oil and Energy and me on this, but this is a joint decision by the government. In addition, there is the work now being done in the Environment Directorate to look at the different possibilities for getting in earlier. So this is something that we from the Department of Climate and Environment approach in several ways.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e1674	I am familiar with the procedure in these kinds of cases, but it is the procedure that the Riksrevision has pointed out is too weak to take account of environmental concerns, i.e. they should come into the process earlier, I specifically ask for. Will the Council of State, together with its colleagues in the government – above all the Minister for Oil and Energy – contribute to the future integration of environmental considerations into planning? I'm familiar with how the planning is going on today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e1679	It's like I've said, that we've started this work, and we definitely take the objections from the Riks revision seriously, but I don't have the final conclusion on this, I have to have the work done first. However, there is no doubt that the work of the Ministry of Climate and Environment is central to the preservation of natural values, even in the case of petroleum activity in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e1684	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e1689	In Norway, we have an established, wide and well-established system for the management of our petroleum resources. It is also widely recognized as one of the best in the world. Our system is enshrined in laws, regulations and a number of large-scale documents. Our decisions are also based on updated facts. On the basis of these facts, our job as politicians is to balance any conflicting considerations. I have noticed the criticism that emerges from the National Audit Office's investigation. I believe that most of the issues that are being criticised are taken care of, but at the same time it is that there can always be room for improvement in processes. Petroleum activity is the country's largest and most important industry and gives rise to great interest and debate in public space. Petroleum policy and the framework for activities and balances with other societal conditions have therefore been subject to thorough assessments and balances in the United Kingdom for decades. The size has adopted the Petroleum Act and other laws regulating these activities. It is the Storting that determines the opening of new areas for petroleum activities, including any remedial measures. The size is also presented as a concrete operationalisation of the balances between industrial activities and environmental considerations in the management plans for marine areas. Such conditions are included in the exploitation permits, and Stortinget is also presented with major development cases. The announcement of concession rounds and the granting of extraction permits are handled by the government, which ultimately balances different societal considerations against each other within the framework established by the Stortinge. The Government makes the final balance and decides on the basis of thorough processes involving all the departments and departments concerned. The processing and approval by the authorities of plans for expansion and operation, i.e. PUD, follows the frameworks laid down in the Petroleum Act and the Petroleum Regulation. Here PUD stands for two parts – one extension part and one impact assessment part. The extension part describes the technical and economic aspects of the expansion. The impact study describes the impact of the development on the environment and other business interests and communities, as well as any remedial measures to reduce their impact. Through the impact assessment process, stakeholders and other departments and departments are involved in PUD treatment. It follows from the law that the extension part is sent to the Ministry of Oil and Energy and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. The Ministry of Oil and Energy coordinates the administration process. My assessment is that the framework helps environmental authorities to be aware of and comments on the impact assessment are made early in the development phase. Since then, they are taking part in the government's thorough treatment of PUD, which provides the necessary space for action to lighten and balance environmental impacts and measures against other considerations before final PUD, and to allow the authorities to impose any conditions with a view to limiting or mitigating significant adverse effects. I believe that the conditions relating to the process related to the processing and approval of the PUD are well maintained today. At the same time, I see that there can always be room for improvement in such processes. I would like to end by saying that the majority of the Storing is behind the current petroleum policy in the Barents Sea and otherwise on the continental shelf. The decision and assumption of the size are followed, and we have long and good traditions for knowledge-based management of our marine areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e1709	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e1714	It is a very clear message from the National Audit Office, which is also underlined by an overall committee and, as I understand it, also by other departments and relevant departments, but to a lesser extent by the Ministry of Oil and Energy, that the interaction has been too poor. I recognize that the Council of State says that there can always be room for improvement. That's a universally correct statement, it would be strange if you meant something else in some case. But what improvements, if any, has the Council of State perhaps wanted to take the initiative? I ask you, on the basis of the fact that the parties that the Council of State and I represent, both are followers of a further development of the oil industry in Norway, and that it may be particularly important in the time we live in now, with ever-increasing questions around the industry, that we have order for these things, good answers and good transparency in the interaction between the environment and oil extraction.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e1721	As I explained in my post, I believe that we have a good framework, a framework that is actually developed through 50 years of activity on a Norwegian base. The framework we have is knowledge-based, and the starting point is the management plans. Of course, it is the role of the Ministry of Oil and Energy to govern on the basis of what is underlying the management plans. Then the Riksrevision is clear in some areas, among other things. They point to interaction. And as I said from Stortinget's pulpit, there's always room for improvement in processes, as the Riksrevision points out. As confirmed by the Elvesu State Council, it is good dialogue today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e1730	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but it is still a little unclear to me what improvements the Council of State will contribute to, or at all, who he thinks should contribute to these improvements. I really know myself pretty well, I've been both the State Council in several departments and the State Secretary. Norway has strong, good responsibilities, but may not always be as well coordinated as the respective administrations. I received an important advice that I would like to share with the Council of State, and that is that you should always remember that you are the government representative in the department, while a collective office would prefer to make the Council of State a representative of the Department of Government. There's a big difference between the two things. I think it is an important message here that it is precisely the members of the government and other political leadership who must take the initiative to improve these things. I think it would actually make sense if the Council of State had an even clearer view of which of these measures that it would now be wise to do something about, and how he should do something about it, besides just saying that everything can always be improved, for that is what I basically agree with in every case.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e1735	There is now considerable work to be done in connection with the management plans, on which the Elvesu State Council was involved. New knowledge is constantly taken into account in all decisions taken, as the management plan also says. In 2011, we changed this system because we got new knowledge. For TFO, i.e. allocation in predefined areas, there is a mechanism for sending it to the hearing to check whether significant new knowledge has not been captured in the management plan. So we have a system where the administration is based on knowledge, and where we constantly get new knowledge that is being implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e1742	I want to use the opportunity to say that I also think we have a good system in Norway initially, but that is the way it should be. I think a lot of the industry's 'licence-to-operate', as it's called fine, is saying that you're always making sure you have the world's best standard of this interaction between environment and oil. Then I will end with a question to give a little hint about what the Council of State might be able to do. It is therefore a concrete proposal from both the Riksrevision and the position that the environmental governance powers should come into the process sooner and more clearly. Will the Council of State, along with the Council of State, Elvesuen contribute to this?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e1749	It may be confirmed by the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e1754	I expect the Council of State has noticed that a joint committee clearly says that it is clear here that the interaction has been too bad, and that the particular feedback about his department is different from the others. What will the Council of State include in the further work, when there is actually a joint committee behind this?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e1759	As I said in my post, I believe that we have a very good management system for this industry, which has evolved over a long, long time. And then, just as the Riksrevision points out, it's room for improvement of some processes. As I confirmed to the previous replicant, and as also State Council Ola Elvestuen pointed out, there is a very specific point in my department regarding past involvement. Of course I take that seriously, cf. The Riksrevision points out, and I can confirm the same thing as the Elvesu State Council: it's dialogue today, and we're looking at how this can get better.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e1764	Yeah, that's a good system. The Court of Auditors and the Committee are fully aware of this. But the challenge is that you feel that interaction is too bad. Does the Minister for Oil and Energy feel that for his job it is more important to develop than the overall responsibility for the environment and the totality?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e1769	Before any decision is taken to grant an extractive authorization, there is a comprehensive process for obtaining a "licence of two operations", as mentioned in this Chamber. There are a number of underlying establishments to be consulted and decisions are taken based on knowledge. But there is one prerequisite for the job being done, and that is that there is a thorough knowledge base in advance, namely the management plans, where the underlying agencies have a substantial part of the work that is being done and which is also a document that the Stortinge treats. So when decisions are made, it's based on the framework that the Storting has drawn up.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e1775	The system as intended is good, but it is not good enough. That it is not followed up well enough, both Stortinget said and the National Audit Office pointed out, and that has also been said by large parts of the government. It's not followed up well enough, and now it's time to make changes. I appreciate that the Council of State says that yes, environmental authorities will be involved at an earlier time, for example. in the PUD, plans for deployment and operation. I think that's good. On the other hand, it would be interesting to take the right – as a test of whether the Council of State is taking it seriously – is the question of extraction methods. In the previous round of permits there were many of the public authorities who thought that there would be stricter conditions, but it was rejected by the Ministry of Oil and Energy. The rejections, the environmental assessments of the Ministry of Oil and Energy, are not public. Will the Ministry of Oil and Energy publish the environmental assessments now?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e1784	Of course, any input that has been made on that hearing is available on the Ministry of Oil and Energy’s websites as the public documents they are. But that's the government's decision regarding the recordings that come, and the job that's done. The announcement made at the other end responds precisely to how these recordings have been evaluated by the government as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e1789	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e1796	There can't be such a very juicy debate when the whole committee is united and behind. We could probably have fed us a little bit and had some pluralities and minorities and maybe got a little bit more fun in it, but it's not that when you have a consensual committee, we say – Stortinget – in the comments on how we want it. In America, one has the same states. We can get the impression that the state agencies in this country are not so much the same when we read this report, and we have also had other national audit reports where it turns out that there is a lack of interaction between departments. Here, then, there are five departments that are not good enough for interaction in what is an important and important area, both geographically and politically. So it's very important that we manage to have a government and a government machine that's in it. I am pleased that it was stated that there is now a better interaction between OED and KLD. It was said by the Council of State Freiberg that it is good enough, but it can be better – but the Storting has actually said now that it needs to be much better. That's what we've been saying. I also see that there are some challenges between departments, challenges in having a common understanding, because there are different opinions about the value of, among other things. The National Audit Office's report. I am sitting here with the results of a user survey conducted by the National Audit Office to the departments that have been audited. It was OED, OD, SD, Coast Guard, NFD, Fisheries Directorate, KLD, Environmental Directorate and Ptil. There is something very different about what they thought about the value of this, about the information, and whether it has anything to say about future follow-up. OED has not responded at all, nor does it have the NFD – it seems strange to me – while the Ministry of Climate and Environment found this to be a huge deal and a top-notch response to everything that can be answered, and it is almost the same for the Environment Directorate. Oil Directorate and Ptil are a little bit more lukewarm, but still. One has something to work with in the government to crush it together and make it hang something better together. That's what the Riksrevision, that's what the Control Committee, and that's what the whole Storting really means. So they can go home and do something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e1809	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e1825	At the request of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e1834	‘Voda’, ‘vozdukh’, ‘zemlja’ – water, air and soil. That is what this is all about, the borderline cooperation between Norway, Russia and Finland, which the Riksrevision has looked at in its study of the Norwegian-Russian bilateral environmental cooperation. There is a joint committee behind the vote, and I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation. In the report, the three main findings are worth noting: there is still room for strengthening cooperation in several of the projects and for seeing the knowledge that emerges from the cooperation. There is still a lack of a common regulatory framework for the implementation of the work. The funds to finance the work seem to be being disbursed unnecessarily late. The Committee agrees to this and the recommendations of the Riksrevision are included in its report. Why do we do that? Well, because there is no doubt that good cooperation between neighbouring Norway and Russia is decisive in getting better environmental status in border regions. In this regard, we have considered the importance of cooperation between countries. Although, from time to time, there is a lack of awareness about both the instrument and the objectives, there is no doubt that we need more cooperation to do something about this in the environmental field. I would like to thank the National Audit Office for a good report. The National Audit Office has extended international cooperation with other State national audits. In this case, it has been a good cooperation with the Russian National Audit Office. We need more of this. I think it's important that one can also get more information about it on the Russian side. Although we as the Committee do not have the power and authority to decide, we have asked the Ministry of Climate and Environment and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to come together to see if it could have been possible that there is time to establish a new environmental agreement between Norway and Russia. The agreement we have today has passed 27 years. When we know how fast environmental and climate conditions have changed, we need more cooperation, not less. The parallel review we've had in this case, may be a part of building up under closer cooperation. There is no doubt that different activities on different sides of Pasvikelva affect the water in the river. We know that there are high values of nickel and copper in the river, and we've heard about the lakes of Jarfjordfjellet that are affected by heavy metal. Furthermore, we have heard about fish in deformed Russian lakes that have a shorter life span. In the soil, it's more heavy metal than what's good. It turns out that we find these heavy metals in birds and mammals. Sulphur, copper and nickel are found in mosses and pine needles. There is no doubt that in this area the extraction of natural resources has had an impact on what is around this production. So far the groundwater doesn't seem to be so strongly affected, but this needs to be guarded towards the future. When the precipitation comes with heavy metal into the soil, it is likely to affect groundwater in the long term. Therefore, a watch must be carefully monitored. A joint committee believes it is important to have good cooperation between Norway and Russia. We are among others. pleased with a work programme underpinning the Norwegian-Russian Environment Commission. We need more cooperation to jointly address the environmental challenges we face. Closer cooperation may remove what is currently perceived as obstacles to cooperation. For example, this is due to record the number of polar bears on the Russian side and to record the biological deficiency. Otherwise, we agree with the National Audit Office that there is a weakness in cooperation, as we do not have a deal on what should be common thresholds. But it is precisely a closer cooperation that should be a joint approach to a sustainable regulatory framework, in the common interest of both the inhabitants and the animal and plant life in the border area. It is not at least a matter of putting in place a holistic plan for managing the Barents Sea, which also includes the Russian seas. We assume that as a nation, we will follow up on the Russian work undertaken to create a management plan for the Russian part of the Barents Sea. This maritime area is particularly important and vulnerable, which makes it crucial to agree on funding, methodology and, in particular, the environmental objectives to be pursued. Finally, I would like to thank those who were involved and developed programs for the opinion we had in East Finland and Russia. This applies to our Committee Secretarys, the County of Troms and Finnmark, not least to those from the environmental protection department up there, or to those who have consulted us on the handling of this matter. It was instructive to see how cooperation works in practice, and there were many dedicated people who will really get to this collaboration. It gives hope for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e1859	Environmental cooperation with Russia is an important part of the government’s northern policy and Norway’s relationship with Russia. The work is anchored in the 1992 Environmental Protection Agreement and the Norwegian-Russian Environment Commission. Cooperation with Russia is very important for maintaining a good environment in the Barents Sea and in border areas and for maintaining common vulnerable and endangered species. Marine environmental cooperation and border cooperation are particularly high priorities. We have recently initiated a new and important cooperation against marine pollution in the Barents Sea. The National Audit Office's report shows that the Norwegian-Russian environmental protection cooperation works well and as intended. One of the main conclusions is that the Environment Commission is an important co-operation venue, which helps build mutual trust between Norway and Russia at several levels of authority. In its report, the National Audit Office also points to some possibilities for improving cooperation under the Environmental Protection Commission. In order to strengthen its work, the National Audit Office recommends the development of rules and procedures for the work of the Environment Commission. We have followed this up, and we are working with our Russian partners. A new work programme for environmental protection cooperation for 2019-2021 was adopted on 19 February this year. The work programme has projects in which the National Audit Office’s recommendations are now being followed up. The project of creating a multi-use plan for the Pasvikvas route has already started, as have measures to obtain comparable methods for the monitoring of heavy metals. The National Audit Office points out that emissions from the nickel plant at the border are still high. Emissions are still too high. They have fallen correctly in the last three years, and the mining company Nornickel, formerly Norilsk Nickel, has announced measures to reduce emissions further. The Directorate-General for the Environment, on a mission from the Ministry, makes assessments of what the Russian actions will mean for the future situation. The Environment Directorate’s preliminary assessment is that the measures are likely to reduce the number of episodes of high air pollution on the Norwegian side, but that it cannot be excluded that such episodes occur when the wind is from the melting plant against Norway. This means that further efforts are needed to reduce emissions in Nikel. Reducing emissions is a Russian responsibility. Norway has been a driver of emissions reduction. We will continue to deal with the issue politically until emissions no longer harm health and the environment in border regions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e1880	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e1896	At the request of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e1906	We are now examining the 2018 Annual Report from the Swedish Intelligence, Surveillance and Security Agency. The EOS Committee is the agency of the Stortinges with the secret services in Norway. The main purpose of control is to ensure that citizens’ rights are not violated and that laws and regulations are observed. The EOS Committee shall ensure that the secret services balance the privacy of individuals with the security needs of society and citizens. In this work, the EOS Committee controls among others. whether the registration of persons by PST complies with the Act, whether the E service does not violate the prohibition of monitoring Norwegian persons residing in Norway, and whether matters relating to the safety clearance of NSM and FSA have been properly addressed. I'm going to go through the individual areas relatively quickly. Let me first say that the rapid technological development of new forms of communication poses challenges for services and next time for the control of the sample. This is why, on the part of the Grand Duchy, the importance of providing the sample with more technological competence has also been stressed in the past. The 2018 Stortinget award gave room to start this work, but was not followed up in the Stortingen grant for 2019. It is therefore a unanimous committee that has been clear that we need to expect the EOS Committee to provide sufficient funds for 2020, so that the plans for the creation of a technological unit with at least five employees are completed. This is necessary to meet current control needs. The introduction of the planned procurement proposal will require further increased manning. So to the different organs, first PST. The Security Act requires the PST to provide records relevant to security clearance, without prejudice to the confidentiality of the clearing agent. The information shall be provided in writing. The EOS Committee has revealed that PST in a large proportion of clearing cases has provided this information orally. This is a clear violation of the law. The PST has acknowledged that the procedures have not been satisfactory and that they have now strengthened the practice. The PST has changed its practice and revised the procedure for providing information to the clearing houses, and the PST and NSM shall establish a new cooperation agreement. None of the complaints to the EOS Committee on PST that was finalised in 2018 have resulted in criticism of the PST. As the competent authority, the NSM has overall responsibility for the security clearance of persons in Norway and shall ensure that similar cases are treated equally, irrespective of who is the clearing authority in each case. In its opinion, the Committee agrees with the sample that it is important that NSM establish solutions to ensure consistent practice and expects that this work is prioritised. The FSA is the country's second largest clearing body responsible for security clearances for the entire defence sector. The control by the EOS Committee of the processing of safety clearances by FSA is therefore an important part of the control of the department. None of the complaints raised by the EOS Committee which was closed in 2018 have led to criticism of the FSA. The e-service is Norway’s military and civil foreign intelligence service. The service shall provide information and inform the Norwegian authorities of conditions that could threaten Norway and Norwegian interests from abroad. This implies that, as a general rule, the E-service is not able to monitor or otherwise obtain information about Norwegian citizens residing in Norwegian territory. Nor can the e-service freely provide such information to Norwegian persons abroad. For the monitoring of Norwegian persons abroad, additional provisions are laid down. According to internal guidelines, the E-Service may obtain information from open sources on persons in Norway, including Norwegian citizens, when the person is authorised as a destination for foreign stay. The EOS Committee considers that there is justified doubt as to its legality. In its consultation on the new law for the e-service, the committee has addressed this issue and stated that this is something that the legislator has to decide on. The Committee takes the view that this is something the Stortinget will look at in the consideration of the Bill in Stortinget. Finally, I will be allowed to thank the EOS Committee for the work that has been done, even in the year to which this annual report applies. I have registered that Stortinget will make new appointments to the EOS Committee this week. I would like to extend a great thank you to those who will not continue, and who will then be replaced, and in particular a great thank you to the head of the EOS Committee. I have managed to get a new leader after the Storting has dealt with the matter of new appointment, so I want to give a big thank you to the leader, who has done a good job in the EOS Committee for many years, and to the members who are leaving.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e1946	I would like to start by fully agreeing with the rapporteur's comments on the matter, which should be natural from a unanimous vote. I would also like to join in what the rapporteur said, and thank Eldbjørg Løwer, who has been leading the EOS Committee for many years, and has done so in an excellent way. Otherwise I asked for the word to underline what the rapporteur said related to economics. As he said, a work has begun to build up a technological unit in the unit, but there the appropriations failed in 2019. I would like to stress what the rapporteur said about the importance of increasing the appropriations by 2020, because with the serious technical developments we see – and both intelligence and police surveillance – it is imperative that a person has technological skills that can manage to follow it up in the important work to be done to follow up on our secret services. So I hope that the presidency, which will record the state budget in this budget area, will follow up on the unanimous comment that the case-rapporteur also underlined so thoroughly, in his input to the government's work on the next state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e1955	First, I would like to thank the President-in-Office for his good work. As many people here have said, it's a consensual attitude, so that way one could have done this easily, but I think the EOS selection is doing such an important job and has such an important task that it's actually important to talk about it a little bit. In a time when we see cross-border surveillance, espionage and a lot of activity from security services are increasing, there is no doubt that we need an agency that sees the governance in the cards. There is a great deal of interest in what is happening in this field because it has consequences for citizens' legal certainty. A lot of the police, military and intelligence business can't be discussed in public. It comes as a result of the world we live in. Even today, there are espionage issues, and there is no reason to believe that we are less exposed to this kind of activity when we read reports from different levels in the justice sector. But what concerns us all is whether the methods used by the security and police forces are useful and in relation to the legal certainty of each and every one of us. For example, the idea should be monitoring-free, so we need the EOS selection as a critical and accurate body that can look at the practice in these cases. The EOS Committee's annual report for the year that passed is complete. When we now have the annual report for debate, half a year out in the new year of work, a lot has already happened in the sector. The EOS selection is essentially a self-presenting body that sets its own calendar. There are few outside people who feel offended by the government, who come to the EOS selection. Even if the number of complaints from outside people has fallen, there's no reason to believe that assault doesn't happen. In the annual report, the selection itself has done its own thing about how new technologies create new challenges. The technological unit EOS selection is currently in place, only the start of what probably needs to be a bigger bet area. It's not just the police who check the background of people and what they're doing, it's the national security authority, NSM. Here again, the EOS selection has been in swing to follow up with activity. We assume that the Council of State will follow up on the requirements that have been included in the selection. It is pointed out by us in the committee that the financial resources of the EOS Selection must be increased. At a time when the countries around us – and Norway itself – are using more resources than ever for security work, the agency must be involved in development. There are several tasks in the Committee's configuration for us as representatives. Among other things, what intelligence service can obtain from open source information about people in Norway who have been abroad. This will come to us again when a new law on intelligence services will be dealt with in the room later. I will be able to highlight the role of the EOS Committee in addition to that of the annual report. The centre party is satisfied that during the course of the year that has passed, the selection has made a sound recording of the new security law, and I have recorded that it has made a recording this winter in connection with a new intelligence law. We need a selection that thinks for itself, and that takes self-esteem of what comes from the government, which I hope they will continue at a time when many people want to open up so that the government can use surveillance and intelligence to a greater extent to the citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e1972	In Norway, there is a legitimate expectation that Norwegian authorities will take care of our security. As Minister of Defence, I take this responsibility most seriously. The purpose of the EOS services is precisely to contribute to enhanced security, preparedness and understanding of the situation. In order to carry out this job, special powers have been given to the services. They have the opportunity, by law, to take advantage of a wide range of instruments. They have a great deal of information, while, of course, there is little public transparency in the functioning of the services, hence the name ‘secret services’. We expect the EOS services to stay within their mandates and not abuse their very special access. Privacy and legal certainty are fundamental values in our country. As Minister of Defence, I also take that responsibility very seriously. The relationship between privacy and legal certainty on the one hand and security and preparedness on the other requires constant attention – this is because the variables included in this part of the balance sheet are not constant but are moving. The threat picture may change and technological developments may change both the assumptions and the scope for action of the services. The functioning of the EOS Committee is therefore very important, even beyond the control function itself, in that the sample follows developments closely year by year. The work of the committee and the continuous contact and control of the EOS services contribute to finding the right balance in this challenging and dynamic landscape. The social mission of the intelligence service is to obtain intelligence-relevant information abroad. It is the task of the PST to obtain intelligence in Norway. This distinction between domestic and foreign intelligence is made clear in the Swedish Intelligence Act. The law prohibits the intelligence service from making disguised arrests against persons in Norway. However, today’s threat picture is cross-border. As a result, the activities of the intelligence service could also have contact points in Norway. In the 2018 Annual Communication, the sample points to different conditions where the territorial limitation is challenged. I feel that the intelligence service and the EOS committee have a constructive dialogue on these and other issues. This dialogue is important to ensure that the activities of the intelligence service are within the legal framework and that any discrepancies are corrected. The work of the EOS Committee is essential for the confidence of the E Services in the population. In this context, the notification of the sample plays a central role. These provide the population with information on the activities of the E-service. In addition, the Communication provides a good starting point when the Storting assesses whether the legal basis for the service is good enough. A good example of the latter is the Storting’s request decision that a new law on the E-service be investigated. This investigation is well under way. In November, a legislative proposal was sent at a general hearing. On the basis of the consultation notes and the consultation recordings, we are now writing a proposal for the Stortinget. As part of this work, we of course take a closer look at the input of the sample in relation to both the ongoing activities of the E-service and the legislative proposal. The bill gives the foreign intelligence access to so-called organised procurement. It involves the storage of metadata that cross the Norwegian border. Such metadata storage requires weighing against privacy considerations. Therefore, searches in the stored data shall only take place after legal notice and will only be permitted for intelligence purposes. Organised procurement is an essential modernisation measure that brings foreign intelligence into line with the rest of our digitalised society. It enables us to detect actors with hostile intentions in the digital space. It is also essential that the EOS Committee be able to carry out effective monitoring. I stress that such a check will require substantial reinforcement of the sample and the secretariat of the sample. The Committee and the Committee have shown in the specific communication on safety clearance examples of different practices of the clearing authorities. This shall be dealt with in a separate notification. Different practices were one of the reasons why we significantly reduced the number of clearing houses in 2017. Similar practices are also desirable in the context of the new Safety Act. It may sometimes be difficult to find the right balance between equal treatment on the one hand and individual treatment on the other. Equal treatment often requires a form of guideline to be followed by clearing authorities. Those guidelines may be at the expense of individual treatment if they become too schematic. At the same time as the separate notification also shows, non-guidelines may lead to seemingly similar cases being treated differently. Before I give up, I would like to end with a little praise: the committee's inspection and subsequent annual report will, for natural reasons, usually deal with the negative findings and critical conditions. At the same time, the check also answers what actually works. I note that the committee has noticed that the sample did not have critical comments on the control of the Defence Security Department, which is the country's largest clearing authority. We should be satisfied with such a result.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e1997	Initially, I would like to underline the importance of the task and control activities of the EOS Committee. After all, the selection monitors and is crucial for the confidence of the Storting and the population in the provision of our intelligence and security services. The legitimacy is a prerequisite for the secret services of a democratic country to carry out their tasks, and we all depend on these services to carry out their social tasks in an offensive and good way. We must be able to trust that they will then be thoroughly controlled, so that it can be confirmed that they stay within the limits of the law. I would therefore like to point out that the annual report of the year also fully demonstrates the eligibility of the EOS Committee. Both the individual cases and the overall work of the sample show that the sample performs its task as the Community's corrective function in a good way. I will also praise the annual conference sample, held on 28 March this year. This year’s conference gave way to an open debate on the draft new law on intelligence. The law shall codify the legal basis of the intelligence service, including the borderline against and cooperation with the PST. Open debate is particularly important in the area of closed services, and the EOS Committee has a unique position to support this debate. I think it is reassuring that the EOS Committee notes that the PST has followed up the criticisms of the sample and the reflection of circumstances that need to be changed, and that the service seems to follow the views of the EOS Committee. In a single case where the service and the EOS Committee have different perceptions of the applicable law, the PST has chosen to comply with the law of the EOS Committee, while at the same time expressing its desire to bring the matter before the ministry with a view to a legislative change. In my view, this is an expression both of the fact that the PST respects the EOS Committee and their role, and of the fact that the service provides decision-making support to policy-making authorities when they see the need for legislation to support response in a more appropriate way. That's how I think it should be. I also notice that the EOS committee expresses that it is positive that the PST itself reports to the sample of deviations they find. In my view, it is also positive that the two deviations that were briefed in 2018 did not provide a basis for further follow-up from the sample. I have also noticed that the Committee refers to the fact that the EOS Committee has not found any reason to criticise the PST in any of the individual complaints that were dealt with in 2018. For a long time, the PST has been in dialogue with the EOS Committee on information sharing practices with the National Safety Authority in person control cases. The selection has not criticised the fact that the information sharing has taken place or the content of the information provided orally to the NSM, but they have criticised that this has not been done in writing. The reason why it has to be done in writing is to ensure notority. The Control and Constitutional Committee has noted that the PST recognised that the procedures were not satisfactory and that the procedures for the provision of data related to personal data control have now been changed in line with the conclusions of the EOS Committee. We will follow up on the development of a new cooperation agreement between NSM and PST. The Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs refers to the international cooperation project of the EOS Committee and has looked at the exchange of personal data by the service on the individual country's foreign fighters. The Committee notes that the sample does not take into account any criticism regarding the provision of information on Norwegian foreign fighters. In my view, the Committee's initiative and work on the overall exchange of information are also of international interest. There is a need to monitor the risk of a control vacuum in the cooperation of intelligence and security services. The service is authorised to exchange information on individuals, while the supervisory authorities are bound by professional secrecy. The rules on professional secrecy are important, but it is also relevant to be concerned that the sum of personal data collected in a single country or in a collaborative forum can create issues that cannot be seen only from a single body.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e2018	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e2034	At the request of the Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e2043	On 12 March 2019, the EOS Committee issued a separate communication to the Storting on different security clearance practices for persons associated with other countries. The purpose of the specific notification has been to go into depth on clearing cases, as refusal of security clearance may have a significant impact on the individual’s further career and life situation. The committee, as it writes, has identified unjustified discrimination against matters relating to the clearance of persons with both Norwegian and foreign citizenship. Several cases were not sufficiently well informed and their relationship with Norway had not been properly assessed. Unwarranted discrimination has also been detected in clearance cases where the spouse of the person to be cleared lacked personal history. Safety clearance shall only be provided where there are no reasonable grounds for doubting the safety fitness of persons. The assessment shall ‘emphasise matters relevant to the reliability, loyalty and judgement of the person in relation to the processing of classified information’, see: Paragraph 21 of the former Safety Act, which has largely been passed on in new law. The assessment of a person’s safety clearance shall be based on a concrete and individual overall assessment. The clearing body shall ensure that the matter is as well informed as possible before the decision is taken. The assessment may focus on whether satisfactory personal checks can be carried out, i.e.: obtaining relevant information for the assessment of safety clearance. Whether personal history can actually be acquired depends, among other things, on: whether Norway has safety cooperation with the country concerned and whether there is an agreement on the exchange of personal data. Information on which countries provide personal data to Norway is classified. There is an overall attitude, and an overall committee underlines in its vote that a broad overall assessment is to be carried out in which all factors which speak for and against safety fitness are weighted. The existence of points which speak against him cannot automatically lead to the refusal of security clearance. In this context, reference is made to the judgment of Oslo jurisprudence of 25 October 2018 in relation to the validity of the security clearance decisions. However, in NOU 2016: 19, Security Interaction, it is clear: ‘The individual and concrete overall assessment provided by the legislation has been replaced by a more schematic approach to the decision-making of clearing cases in some guidance and circulars.’ In addition, it appears that the circulars describing the interpretation of the exemptions ‘have a more restrictive and schematic approach than the legal and regulatory regime should advocate’ as regards the practicalisation of the derogation of 10 years of personal history. In order to gain a wider understanding of the problem, in a letter of 11 April 2019, the Committee asked the Minister for Social Security to be sent or to have access to the classified circulars/guidelines dealing with the clearance of persons associated with other countries. In addition, the Committee asked for details of the forthcoming work to be carried out on the preparation of new guides, practical notes and experience archives, etc. which may have an impact on the Committee's further examination of the matter. The letter of reply shows that NSM has undertaken extensive work to put in place advice and guidance material for new safety laws. In addition, NSM has developed an experience archive planned to be published by the end of October 2019. Furthermore, the aim is to develop practical notes for use in the internal procedure during 2019. In March 2019, the NSM opened a single information portal to the clearing house on a graduated platform. The information portal allows for more effective communication between the NSM and the clearing authorities and serves as a sharing platform where all relevant guidance material, manuals, land assessments, etc. is to be found. National safety authority will also establish a non-discrimination forum with clearing authorities during May to June 2019 in order to contribute to the quality and non-discrimination of clearing cases. The Committee is well pleased with the measures taken and assumes that these will improve the weaknesses of the EOS Committee. The Committee would stress that the specific assessment that needs to be carried out on a case-by-case basis is in the hands of the NSM and the other clearing bodies. The Committee does not see it as its natural task to provide concrete guidance on decisions of a high level of safety. There is an overall committee which joins the EOS Committee in its specific communication to the Stortinget, and the Committee expects the government to follow up the recommendations in a good manner. It is not so often that you get specific messages from the EOS Committee, and when they come, they have to be taken very seriously. I believe that the Committee has done so in its position, and an overall committee takes as a matter of course that the government follows up well, as it is described, further in the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e2074	Thank you for inviting the Storting to discuss the settings of the Control and Constitutional Committee. Let me first say that the EOS committee is doing an important work as the control body for the Stortinget. The audits of the committee are important for the continuous work on improving and ensuring the legal certainty of the individual. The issues raised by the sample are something that both the National Safety Authority and I are taking seriously. NSM has several measures that they will implement throughout the year, which improves the conditions for non-discrimination across clearing agencies, and I will follow up this work. Security clearance is an intrusive tool used by the state to protect our key values. The legal certainty of individuals is of particular importance both in the legislation and in the proceedings. The proceedings are controlled by the NSM as supervisory body and by the EOS Committee as controlling body for the Stortinget. The clearing authorities deal with a total of over 30,000 cases per year. There will be so many criticisms, but there will be constant efforts to ensure the quality of the procedure, which balances national security interests with the legal certainty of the individual. It is important that the personnel accessing displayable information, features and infrastructure have been assessed in a safe manner. If we give individuals access to the community's off-buttons or secret information that is absolutely vital to the defence of the kingdom, we must be sure that these do not have vulnerabilities that can be exploited by a threat actor. This is what personnel security is all about. The outcome of a specific case is a clear, safety-related assessment which must be made by the individual clearing body or by the NSM as a professional authority. I record that both the selection and the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs share this view. In its reports, the EOS Committee refers to non-discrimination cases. Non-discrimination means that all clearing authorities treat and assess cases with almost the same fact in the same way. This is very important. The fact that there are variations in the procedure and the outcome of the clearance authorities may compromise the legal certainty of persons applying for clearance. This challenge was one of the main reasons why, in the light of the government’s proposal, the Storting adopted a change to the Safety Act on the reduction of the number of clearing authorities. The amendment is primarily a quality reform and entered into force on 1 January of this year. The change will also improve the conditions for NSM to perform its role as a professional authority in the field. Nevertheless, a fundamental condition for the process of clearance is that a specific and individual assessment of his/her safety fitness is made. Individual circumstances that may affect his safety fitness must be considered by the clearing authorities. This assessment is highly discretionary. Individual aspects will often have to be included in this assessment. Therefore, seemingly similar cases may in some cases have different outcomes. In that case, this will be a result of the thorough assessments of the individual case by the clearing authorities. It is essential not to misinterpret such professionally justified differences as unjustified discrimination. As I see it, non-discrimination will focus on the fact that these cases are as well informed as possible before the decision is taken, that the process leading to the decision is conducted in line with other similar cases. The number of clearance cases associated with other countries is increasing and the nature of the association is more complex now than before. This poses challenges for clearing authorities, such as: must assess the loyalty of the person to be cleared and whether there is a conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e2091	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox The President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. 7 and 8 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e2122	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the President, 5 minutes to each of the other party groups and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e2131	I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation. As one will see of both options, it's a consensual committee. At just one little point, we have different opinions, which I'm going to come back to. Otherwise, the Committee is in agreement with its assessments of both the annual report from the Civil Ombudsman and the message from the Civil Ombudsman Prevention Unit. First of all, a few words about the Ombudsman for the administration, which is the formal name: this is, in my opinion, the most important institution that has been set up by the Stortinget, because it is created to take care of the individual in the face of the public system. In fact, this role has been given by big business representatives – to be an outlaw for individuals in response to the public system. But as time passed and complexity increased, one saw at a time that one was dependent on establishing a systematic around it, and simply pointed out a trust person who could carry out that work – a private one. Our office has the right to have all the necessary information in order to be informed of a matter, and its scope is almost unlimited. And as the Storting's extended arm and trust person for the Storting, it's like the statement from the Civil Ombudsman is basically always to be followed up by government, and in cases where this is not followed up by government and government, it goes loose on Storting's own authority. There is a kind of fate between Stortingets ombudsman and Stortinget itself. The annual report that we are discussing today shows that it has been a very active year for the Civilobodsman. There is a slight increase in the number of complaints, and it has also become significant that the proceedings of the ombudsman on a general basis have increased. Many of the reasons for this are most likely that the Civil Ombudsman has become more well-known in the population. It is in this way a good thing that there are several complaints, but it is also a challenge for the Civilo Ombudsman to deal properly with complaints. In time, the Committee and the Stortinget will be taking extra care to ensure that the Civilo Ombudsman’s priorities are good, and that one can bring down the proceedings and get the complainants properly handled, with sufficient resources to do the job. Since I'm going to come up with a number of issues, I thought I'd take up one particular thing in the Civilo Ombudsman's annual report, one of which is also a mess in the Committee on Assessment. It applies to the so-called Outlook case - transparency of documents contained in Microsoft's Outlook software. There, the Civilobodsman had to remind the government nine times before a response was received. It's kind of clear, but seen from the Storting's side, this is too bad. The statements from the Civilo Ombudsman shall be prioritised and managed as quickly as possible. I expect that we will have the opportunity to discuss this matter after the Council of State has given its opinion, and in the follow-up in the lines later. A minority believe that this type of problem setting is new to the legislation that the Civilo Ombudsman has for the sake of transparency, and believe that this needs to be addressed in a new way through a better development of the legislation, which takes greater account of the new technology. But a number in the committee think that this is too bad, and that the government has to follow up the statements of the Civil Ombudsman. Then there's also a report from the Civilombodsmann Proximity Unit. What's good to see is that it's been a very active year. The device for prevention has been in several places and has taken care of many things, very alarming things, but the joy is that this has almost consistently been followed up by the administration. This applies to people who have been taken away from their freedom, the use of coercion in mental health protection, etc. Where this has been pointed out, it has also been followed up by the administration, and we argued this. Here we have both Norwegian legislation and international conventions that oblige us to address this. There are strict rules about taking freedom from people, and they have to be followed. The UN Torture Committee has also problemed the extent of the use of both isolation and coercion in mental health protection that we have in Norway today, i.e. one too easily adopts the form of freedom loss in Norway. This is an old criticism, but there are signs that it's an increase of it. The Civil Ombudsman doesn't want to speculate on why there's an increase in it, but as case spokesperson, I can have an idea about it. It may be related to competence and culture, but probably also to resources. Is it that one uses the heaviest means of power one has, when one has too bad with resources and too little people to deal with people in a worthy, good and humane way? The Committee argued that the government would follow the indications of the Civil Ombudsman, as well as those of the United Nations Torture Committee on Isolation and the Use of Forces in Mental Health Protection, and that this would be a priority. We'll get our own report tomorrow, which is probably the first time you get a special message to the Storting about the use of isolation – which has been in the media so far – but where the Storing gets an even greater chance to get into the thematics around this, which is very serious. Actually, there is an entirely unacceptable use of coercive agents that happen in Norway, which have been known for a long time, and which we have not yet been able to take at the root, but which this gives us an opportunity to start with.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e2152	I would like to start by giving my full support to a document, which is largely unanimous, and the introductory part of it by the rapporteur. I would also like to stress the importance of the role of the Civil Ombudsman as a jewel of Norwegian democracy, with the possibility of catching up those who feel unfairly treated by the authorities. What I wanted to make a brief comment on is, for the first time in the year and for the time being, what the case rapporteur was also concerned about, is the question of Outlook calendar, because it has been a theme for the last year. Personally, I think it should only be lacking when the Outlook calendar today – with today's technological level, which is probably changed tomorrow – provides opportunities, for example. sending attachments with a calendar call. The time when case papers, which can be attached today as an attachment to an Outlook call, had to go by post or by e-mail, there is no doubt that it was covered by the disclosure law, and the fact that new technology is coming should not change that. So I give full support to the Civil Ombudsman, who has been in some battles related to it. Some have asked questions about this, and there has even been a proposal at the hearing. But at least what has to be stated – and I think that is important – is that until one has changed a law, which I am very skeptical about changing, at least the law in force has to be followed. That is why I want to give my full support to the Civil Ombudsman on it, as a majority of the Committee does in its comments. This also applies to the time of replies to the Civil Ombudsman. I also agree with the rapporteur on the prevention unit and its importance. It is very interesting to follow the issues and controls that the Civil Ombudsman has in that area, both because it can detect issues that are not in order, and not least because the supervision activities themselves – and I am sure of that – lead to attention on child protection institutions, prison services or other areas, into which it is thoroughly addressed. I must be allowed to say one thing attached to it. It is true, as the rapporteur said, that the torture convention and its follow-up are problematic at a hearing in Geneva, among other things. as regards the use of isolation in Norwegian prisons. In our position, we say that the Civil Ombudsman should give priority to this work in particular in 2019, and that the Committee believes it is an important priority. But I think I'm talking on behalf of more people on the Control and Constitutional Committee when I say that I have with amazement recorded that there has already been some discussion about the special message – without the special message having come to the Stortinget – and there is a slightly special situation to be in. Let me mention that too. But we underlined the importance of that work being followed up, and we look forward to receiving the special message tomorrow, but we are also somewhat surprised that it has been discussed for a long time before we get it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e2165	The Civil Ombudsman is doing a valuable job in the state of law in Norway. Even if we like to call ourselves a state of law, there's no reason to believe that state abuses against individuals can't happen here to countries as well. Then we need such vigilance as the Civilombodsman is, when it comes to following up how one can avoid torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. Last year, the Civilombodsman visited eleven places where the person had lost his freedom to move freely. When we see the findings that are made, there's reason to worry about what's going on at some of our institutions. Because even if people are to make up for their crimes, we always assume that they are to be treated with respect and preserved by human rights. However, when we hear in the report from the Civilo Ombudsman about long-term isolation, major challenges in prison departments and poor provision of activity, this must be addressed by the Ministry of Justice. From the Center Party's side, we would point out that we believe that prisoners and other people were easier to rehabilitate under minor circumstances. That is why I think it is a pity, what has been done, that one is still putting down small prisons. I can take Ulvsnessey prison as a case in point, which was able to rehabilitate people with challenges in an excellent way. They got people to go to school, they got skills, and they got out into society. Saving a few dollars in more efficient atoning places won't help if we don't get people rehabilitated. If one person comes out and works well in society and in work, a lot of the costs have been saved. Reports from prisons of incarceration that should not have been there because of mental challenges are well-known. It's not just a burden on those who are in and have their own challenges, but also on those who are often in the smallest layer. There is now a National Directorate for Health and Welfare at Prison, but we can see in the report from the Civilombudsman that, in many cases, the content of the counsellor is well known. Psychiatry and mental health protection have a long history that has been characterized by various revelations and revelations. When the Civilombodsman last year came to four hospitals, these supervisors could discover a good culture, but there were challenges with the use of transport belts, which is unfortunate. The role of the civilombudsman was well expressed when, after visiting the Children's Protection Institute, the Quammmen in Melhus got the city tied up. When one of these places gets more perceived as a prison for those who live there, it was a good move to take. This case and several others mentioned in this report show the civilombudsman's important role in society. It's particularly important that we have someone who makes sure that proper documentation is provided on what kind of work has been done, that a preventer forced people to participate in their own lives, and that the physical aspirations of institutions are arranged for people to live their lives after all, no matter what has led them to you. The Annual Report shows that one of the four issues that comes to the Civilo Ombudsman will be dealt with. It is also a good target for the Civilombodsmann, because when a roof is taken, it will also be a matter in which it will be arranged. We'll think in six out of ten cases there won't be any criticism of the administration. Only one of ten things will end with criticism or a request to do something. In less than 400 cases on a national basis, for example, there is a number that says something about the good judgment that is, after all, largely made in public administration. Having an open and transparent organisation in public enterprises is important. Transparency in the administration is important because one should be able to go back and see decisions that are made, which are unhealthy and without proper influence. Then it's e.g. important to gain insight into whom the Prime Minister and her colleagues are meeting. I'm glad that the Civil Ombudsman has come to the conclusion that those who want to get access to the calendars. Worse still, I think it is that the Minister of Justice and Defence will streamline and introduce an exception for transparency for inclusion in electronic calendars. Let's hope that one will come to another conclusion after hearing about this, which was held last year. Finally, I would like to thank Detroping Civil Ombudsman, Aage Thor Falkanger, for the efforts he has made since his graduation in 2014. Over the five years, we've seen a professional organization under his leadership. This means that we expect the new civil ombudsman to be in place and carry on the good work, where the goal still has to be an ombudsman who has the best of his or her people as his or her most important task.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e2186	I want to start by thanking the civil ombudsman for his thorough and good work. The Ombudsman has a key role to play in promoting and protecting the rights of individuals in Norway in response to public administration. The Ombudsman is a strong professional actor and a clear voice. The Ombudsman makes an important effort to deal with complaints from individuals and to take care of their interests. Through these cases, the Ombudsman identifies errors and deficiencies in the management process. The Ombudsman thus acts as an important corrigendum to the administration. Opinions and recommendations of the Ombudsman are generally important and welcome input when the Ministry and Government decide on what should be done in the various areas of activity. I feel that there is a good dialogue between the Civil Ombudsman and the Ministry of Justice and Defence. The Ombudsman has also issued an annual report for 2018 on the prevention of torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment of detention, with a number of useful recommendations to the Ministry and Government. In particular, the Civil Ombudsman and the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs emphasise the use of isolation, including isolation and the situation of mental illness in prisons. The Civil Ombudsman will also deliver a separate communication to the Stortinget on the use of isolation in Norwegian prisons tomorrow, 18 June. I would like to stress that the government is taking the challenge of isolation and lack of human contact in prisons seriously. There shall be no doubt that long-term isolation may be harmful to the prisoner. Criminal services do what they can to avoid isolation. In those cases where isolation is unfortunately necessary for security reasons, criminal services do their best to minimise the burden on the prisoner. In the Granavolden platform, the government determines that it will reduce the use of isolation and strengthen treatment provision in the field of mental health protection in criminal care. We've followed up on this. In the budget for 2019, the Stortinget granted 18.3 million on a proposal from the government. to establish an enhanced community department in the Ila prison for serious mentally ill prisoners. From other measures, I would also like to highlight the fact that the Directorate of Criminal Welfare has drawn up a plan of action against isolation in criminal matters. The Ministry of Justice and Security has just received that action plan and will now review it. The Ministry of Justice and Defence has also undertaken work to review the legislation on exclusion and coercive measures in criminal matters. The Ministry shall review the use of custody and assess measures to minimise the level of custody. It is also important to mention the role of healthcare in this. In order to remedy the harmful effects of isolation, good follow-up from health care is important. Cooperation between criminal services and healthcare services for prisoners is good, and this is high on the agenda. I would also like to say something about the possible causes of a trend of increasing isolation in prisons. KDI, the Directorate of Criminal Welfare, has pointed out that the building conditions in several prisons make it very difficult to organise communities. The Directorate also points out that the resource situation in the criminal justice system characterises the substance work in prisons and leads to more lock-in on the cells. In conclusion, I would like to say a little more about the establishment of a new nationally strengthened Community department for prisoners with mental disorders at the Ila prison and detention centre. Work is in progress. The department was originally planned to be established by Title H of the Ila. It has been found that this department does not meet the needs of health professionals and therefore the project is somewhat delayed. The Directorate of Criminal Welfare is now looking at alternative placements in prison. I have been assured that it is working for the establishment of the department as soon as possible, and I am sure that it is now working well to achieve the best possible final result.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e2211	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e2216	The Minister himself mentioned in his speech that part of the challenge of isolation is lack of personnel and resources. At the same time, a set, as I mentioned in my post, that less prisons have often been easier to rehabilitate people, and they've managed to do it without coercion. What does the Minister think about what is happening today with the closure of smaller institutions?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e2221	It is enough that those in prison today tend to be more serious judges than before. It's also a general feature that there are more mental disorders in there now than before. There are slightly different demands on prisons. It'll be, for example. more use of high-security prisons than has been necessary in the past. That is why I believe in the strategy that you now have, for example. Based on a completely new prison in Fromand, it spends well over 2 billion. kr. These prisons are built in a completely different way from the old prisons, and one makes it much better for less use of isolation and good opportunities for prisoners to be in common. Just this with the building issues I think will also be part of the announcement that the Stortinget will receive from the Civil Ombudsman tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e2226	When a talker with both added and inserted, who has been in both Bergen prison and Ulvsnesøy, they say that as long as they were in Bergen, they carried on and got away with coercive measures, while they came out into a smaller area in a completely different environment, they actually managed to function in a sensible way. Don't you think the government's plan on losing some of that effect when it gets bigger and bigger?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e2231	I think we're talking a little bit past each other, because where the use of insulation is the greatest, it's on high security and not on low security. I can give an example: Oslo Prison is perhaps the largest prison in Norway in terms of custody prison, and the building stock is from a very different time. This poses major challenges for how to meet the required standard of isolation. This is why it is so important to get a building mass that is structured in such a way that it is possible to carry out without the prisoners having to sit in isolation. The building mass at Oslo prison makes it very difficult. This is why the government has also started to look at how to build a new prison in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e2237	Yes, this is an area that is very valuable for the Civil Ombudsman to follow up. However, the Council of State itself pointed to the resource situation in prisons. There has been no lack of warnings from criminal services, which in the year after year have said that the annual cut – which the government chooses to refer to as a reform, the ABE reform – is half a percent or 0.7 pst. in the annual budgets, the quality and potential of a return to society are hampered by resource availability, i.e. government cuts. My question to the Council of State is: Does he think that the ABE reform can be a contributing factor in the use of more isolation in prisons?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e2242	When this government joined, there were many challenges in the Norwegian prisons. Maybe the main challenge was that there were long queues to get in. Then a plan has been put in place to deal with the different challenges, and the part of the plan we're in now is also a lot about renewing the building structure, too much of the cause of the problems we have now, is that you have a very old building structure. There were completely different prisons that were built in – let's say – old days. Then there was a building and to do to have the most cells possible in the building. Those who are in a new and modern prison today will see that it is in a completely different way, where prisoners get a structure in their everyday life that makes them have to get up in the morning, that makes them get out in the morning, and that allows them to live an almost normal life within the four walls of prison. It's exactly the type of prison government that now spends two billion. Building in Fromand, there will be a prison that has a much better quality for the prisoners and much better rehabilitation opportunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e2249	The council chose to answer something quite different than what I asked for. We're also for more prisons. We have to get one built in Westfold, for example, pretty soon. But that's not what I asked. I asked the Council of State – this goes on the operation of the prisons – whether he believes the annual cuts, the so-called ABE reform, which has existed throughout this government, can be a contributing factor in their feeling that they are under-resourced in criminal matters?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e2254	What I pointed out was that an important reason for being under-resourced is that the building conditions make it not appropriate to operate as a prison, and it drains the prison for resources. When you get completely different types of prisons with a completely different design, it will result in a profit and can operate much more efficiently, which means that employees will have much more time to rehabilitate among prisoners. That is exactly why the government has granted more than 2 billion. kr to build e.g. new prison in Fromand.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e2259	Yes, but now prisons are running in the buildings we have, some new ones, some old ones, and they're getting their operating budgets reduced because of the cuts. So I repeat my question: doesn't the Council of State think that the government cuts out every year in criminal custody, at 0.5 p.m., at 0.7 p.m., has anything to do with the fact that there is little resources in criminal custody?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e2264	As far as I know now, the appropriations for criminal services are much higher than that. the previous government was set. In addition to increased appropriations, investment in new buildings is being actively pursued. This is not a problem that you solve just by getting more employees in place, you don't solve the underlying structural issues. It is necessary to invest in new buildings, and therefore progress is being made in the construction of, for example: new prison in Oslo so important.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e2269	I would like to follow up on the round of questions from Mr. Dag Terje Andersen. I first heard that the Minister of Justice said he was concerned about increased isolation. He also mentioned that one of the reasons for this could be the resource situation, but in the reply he became more focused on the fact that this was due to building conditions. The employees are very determined that the reason for increased isolation and increased lock-in is fewer employees at work, and that they will then have to shut out excruciating prisoners inside their cells. Then my question to the Minister of Justice is: Is the Minister of Justice told the staff that there will be no more staff in Norwegian prisons in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e2276	What the representative is now asking is a budgetary question, but I would like to stress that the coverage in Norwegian prisons has fallen recently. It's not as crowded prisons as it's been before. It was supposed to give more room for employees to spend time with the inmates. However, it is a challenge that in high-security departments there are more complex issues and more with drug problems and mental disorders. That's something we have to solve. Many of the reasons why it is difficult to solve are often building challenges. It is therefore important that we now start building new prisons, which can be operated in a completely different way from the old prisons. The fact that we are now setting up new prisons in Fromand will lead to a more efficient division of labour among employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e2281	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e2288	We have received a very important report from the Civil Ombudsman – thank you for it! It's a very important report. The country’s main task in Norway is to secure the human rights of the population. There should be a full hall in Stortinget when we deal with human rights in Norway, but it is not. Nor was it last week when we examined the annual report of the Norwegian Institute for Human Rights. There was also a glass hall at the time, although I believe that this is one of the most important things this magnification can do. One of the reasons for this may be that there is a kind of narrative, a notion, out in the population — including among us politicians — that human rights are strong in Norway. We think everything's good here. There is no torture here – at least no torture whatsoever to extort information from people, as we have seen in other countries. Neither is it. Human rights are definitely strong in Norway compared to very many other countries, but if there is a notion that it is very good, it becomes a sleep cushion for us and prevents us from addressing the political challenges we actually face in Norway. Because there are also a number of challenges here, as both the annual report from the Norwegian Institute for Human Rights, which was dealt with in the Stortingen last week, shows, and what we have heard here today. Therefore, it is important that there is an overall committee that is concerned about what is reported by the Civil Ombudsman. That consensus is important to keep, and it should send a very clear signal to the government about what should be corrected. At the same time, what the Civil Ombudsman brings up here, repeaters, is something we've been familiar with. I started working on human rights 20 years ago, and I got to know a lot of the same thing when: isolation in Norwegian prisons, imprisonment, mental illness in prisons, forced into institutions, criticism of the way people get interned in return, etc. This has been known for 20 years and has also been reported from international reporting agencies to Norway. So why doesn't something happen to this? It should definitely put a completely different pressure on this big business than we might do through the processing of these two reports from these excellent institutions. Norway is and will be a leading country for human rights in the world. It's a central part of our foreign policy. We regularly address human rights with other heads of state, and we demand that other countries discharge their human rights obligations. We also believe that the role of Norway’s lead is a comparative advantage for Norway, which strengthens us both politically and internationally. Therefore, it is absolutely essential that the conditions that arise today be taken seriously by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e2301	This message from the Civilombodsmann for 2018 is a serious message that shows gloomy conditions both in Norwegian criminal services and in Norwegian health services. It has been shown that the United Nations Torture Committee has highlighted several problematic aspects of the use of isolation in Norway. The Committee is concerned about long-term isolation in prison and an increase in the number of registered decisions on exclusion from the community, often due to building and manning conditions. I repeat: often because of building and manning conditions. This is criticism that we cannot live with. The policy that really constitutes isolation is not recorded as a single decision and cannot be appealed against. The legal conditions for isolation have not been sufficiently precise. There are unclear conditions for decision on isolation. It may give rise to measures contrary to the United Nations Convention on Torture. There is no maximum limit in the Norwegian legislation on how long the insertion can be kept in isolation. More detailed recommendations are available to avoid isolation. construction and manning conditions shall not be used as a basis for isolation. It's being done today. The law has to be amended to ensure that insulation can only be used in exceptional cases, that one should have daily medical supervision using insulation, and that one must have the right to complain and have legal review. In the message, one also refers to the United Nations Torture Committee, which refers to a lack of mental health care in general in prison. There is a high incidence of mental illness among inmates — we know — and it has been pointed out here that there is a serious shortage of beds in mental health protection, which the Centre has been busy for a long time. We have suggested that a now stop the building up of bed places in mental health protection, which will go especially beyond mentally ill inmates in criminal care. This results in insertions being isolated instead of receiving health care. One refers to several concrete measures to improve mental health care — both in criminal care and in mental health protection. The message also takes up the large increase in the worrying use of screen savers. It's also a rather dark development to read about. The message and recommendations of the Civil Ombudsman must be followed up in earnest. Mentally ill people must be met with health care, not with isolation, whether they are inpatients or patients in the Norwegian health system.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e2313	A few days ago, the Judicial Committee discussed the annual report to NIM, the Norwegian Institute for Human Rights, on the human rights situation in Norway. I want to support what the representative Petter Eide says: it is good in Norway when it concerns human rights, but we have a lot of clear improvement points, especially in criminal matters. When the Judicial Committee examined the annual report to NIM, we had a discussion about how we expected the Council and the government to follow up the recommendations, and there are not quite a few of us. We are not satisfied with how the government has followed up the recommendations of NIM from last year, and believe it is important that a now when the Civilo Ombudsman's message is to be addressed, follow up what appears here, concretely and carefully. A few years ago, I took part in the NRK debate, where the theme was criminal custody. The party of progress told me during the debate that if the ABE reform or cut that followed the ABE reform, had consequences for the content of the prison or went beyond it, they had to clean up as soon as possible. There is little doubt about the consequences of this so-called reform on the content of Norwegian prisons. We have met with both added and trusted people over several years who have been calling out warnings about the situation that the now pointed out by the Civilobodsman. There is a serious problem that there is so much isolation in Norwegian prisons. It is also unworthy for those who work in prison. I expect the Minister of Justice to take this very seriously. It is also a budgetary issue to the greatest extent, and although the Minister of Justice will not discuss budgets here today, the famine of Norwegian prisons cannot continue if we are to maintain the quality and good level of criminal justice once known to Norway. Then we also had a round here a day on what the government came with – which was actually quite good – when it applies to new Community department in Ila for mentally ill people. Unfortunately, we have seen that the work is almost non-recurring, and I expect a greater force and also a greater commitment than pointing out that this is serious, when it's due to clean up in the serious situation we're actually in.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e2326	I notice that more people are in prison and isolation. We shall also discuss this in our committee when we have received the case from the Civil Ombudsman, so I agree with the chairman of the committee, who believes it would be nice if we got it to our committee before the debates started – because that is what we will return to. So just a little comment: it might be misunderstood when it was commented that there was a minority comment from the Right, the Advance Party and independent representative Leirstein that had different content when it came to Outlook transparency. It must not remain the impression that it is quite ok to send anything in an Outlook call, and then it is except for publicity. There are clear definitions of what a document is. Either it is stuck in the hand and put in a seventh sense, or it comes in Outlook, a document should be handled according to the rules on which the document is to be handled. But there is transparency in Outlook that gives insight into a lot of other things, which is the challenge, and which we believe must be properly addressed, and you have to look at what it will affect by security and other challenges. This is why there is a new situation that needs to be addressed thoroughly and properly.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e2333	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 7 and 8.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e2349	At the request of the Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e2358	I would like to start by thanking the Committee for its effective work on the matter. I'm so lucky that I've had to visit some places that have introduced school food: the divine high school in Stavanger, the Motland school at Nærbø and Ogna school in Hah. The experience from there is enormously positive. The list of good effects is long, ranging from increased learning to better cohesiveness. So what I've seen and heard – and tasted – in these places, made my doubt clear. School food is something all children should experience the joy of. That is why I am pleased that the Workers' Party will introduce a healthy and free school meal for all primary school students. This kind of good Community solutions do not come about by themselves, they must be created, and as long as people's everyday lives can become simpler, or some groups fall outside, there is room for stronger communities. That is why we are proposing school food in the Labour Party. One of the school's most important tasks is to balance social differences, and we haven't done this well enough. However, the school results of pupils reflect the education of their parents. If Norwegian school is to give all our children equal opportunities in life, it has to be taken more seriously. Of course, some qualified teachers and early schooling are important, but the framework around school day is also important, and Norwegian school should be able to give all children equal opportunities to succeed in life. Children and young people have to feel good about learning well. Being good and saturated in the stomach is a fundamental need to be able to feel good, and it surprises me that the government – and perhaps especially the Right – does not see this. The Prime Minister says we have a different school. She called an alarm, while her own knowledge minister said no to one of the most targeted steps one could have taken just to get something done with these differences. The speech of the figures is quite clear: Youths from home with poor advice rarely eat lunch, fruit, and greenery. Every tenth grader in the sixth grade doesn't eat lunch. The whole 85,000 children don't have a food package with them. The chance is great that it's the same kids who go hungry all day school, and when you're hungry, it's harder to concentrate on learning. Research has shown that the school system is helping these children, and that it is those who benefit most from getting a single school meal during the school day. School food is like a cheek egg: it's healthy, it's good for learning, and it creates a community where everyone is included. I'm concerned that we're also bringing it forward, that it's good for students' learning. It is not just a public health measure. Unfortunately, today we are downcast. I hope at least the Left and Christian People's Party sign up for this debate, but it seems like we're going to get school food, we need a new government. I address the proposal on which the Labour Party is involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e2379	Then the representative Torstein Tvedt Solberg brought up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e2384	There is a broad political consensus that a healthy and proper diet is an important prerequisite for both well-being, well-being and learning, and that eating and drinking during the school day is necessary to maintain concentration and energy levels. Therefore, it is good to see the many good local solutions that are designed, and also that various studies show that most in primary school and large sections of primary school students have a healthy range of food from home. The contents of the food packages are healthy – most of them have rough bread, crispbread, ham and cheese or similar items – and it supports this in the recent 2016 guidelines on the health of a healthy meal. It was also found that the food packages have the clear advantage that they are adapted to the individual’s wishes, but, perhaps most importantly, that they take into account both allergies and religion. Very many schools provide access to refrigerators, microwaves – or other types of heating option – and subscription schemes for fruit and vegetables, milk and yoghurt and other dairy products, which are also supported by the State budget and which are fairly widespread. But what worries me is that probably too few schools today will organise their school day so that students get at least 20 minutes of lunch break. A 2013 study showed that it was only 55 pst. at the nursery and 38 pst. at the intermediate stage, which had set an adequate mealtime. And it does little — and does little to motivate — to bring along a healthy food package if the school does not provide the good framework for the school meal. Here, reinforced guidelines for 2016 have been issued, and I believe that all the schools must strive to follow these as a minimum. When we talk about school food, I think the most important thing we can do is involve parents and children and give increased knowledge about what a healthy meal and proper nutrition will consist of, and why a healthy meal in school is important. That's how we contribute to everyone, from school management and teachers to students and supervisors, moving in the same direction and contributing to good attitudes at the bottom of all meals. Good public health is, after all, all about the whole human being – from lunch to lunch, dinner and evening – and the schools should therefore play on the inherent curiosity of the students, so that more people become conscious, and that better arrangements are made for the school meal to become a social activity that inspires inclusion, diversity, social competence – yes: lifelong learning. A government scheme would not have been able to take account of all local considerations, and that would also have meant that we had to set significant investment and operating costs. These resources could improve the quality and content of the school. Then it is better to find the good local solutions that we have today: schemes that protect low-income families and contribute to increased knowledge and efforts for a wider commitment to good public health. In sum, our children will be best served with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e2397	There is no disagreement that a good diet is important for good health and provides good conditions for children's learning at school, but is this a state responsibility? I believe that making sure that your own children eat, establishing good eating habits, is one of the most elementary things that parents are going to do. Today we know that almost 100 pst. by primary school students, they bring food packages. Then it's completely wrong if we're going to use public funds to nationalize a service that parents are going to do themselves, and as they are doing today. It is the wrong way to go to make this a state responsibility and use 2.5 billion. of taxpayers’ money on a task that their parents are carrying out today. So we know that there are people who don't bring food packages, and that there are people who go hungry through school day. This can be serious, and it may be in place with policy measures to address the problem. But it's local they know where the shoe prints, for example. in the form of living conditions studies in the municipality or by the fact that a principal knows that right at his school, in some classes, this is a challenge. This should also be handled locally. I am a major supporter of local solutions, that not all schools and municipalities have to deal with this equally. As a basic principle, I am in favour of completely free schooling, so parents can choose the school that offers the total package they think will best suit their child, whether it's about non-schooling, school meals, or that the school, for example. shall be a real-time vocational school, language school or other. We're not there today. Then I think a good solution is that this is what the school owners themselves have to decide. Local democracy is the foundation of our society, and I believe that services like school food are organised and adapted to the best local level, precisely because the municipality knows the inhabitants, local conditions, and can make an offer that suits the needs of the students who use the school. But then we have to give local politicians confidence and freedom to organise and prioritize services as they think is best for their citizens, without governmental requirements and requirements. Some sites will work well, such as: at Gosen school in Stavanger, supplemented, where appropriate, by support schemes for low-income families. In other areas, it may be sufficient for the school to have food in return in case some students occasionally show up without a lunch. To sum up, I have great confidence that this should be decided by local politicians, and I'm very sceptical about using 2.5 billion. of taxpayers' money in order for the public to take over the role of parents as employers in an area where parents deliver today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e2410	School food is an important part of everyday life for children and young people throughout the country, Monday to Friday, much of the year. It is important for nutrition and growth and affects how rusty students are to learn. School food is about public health at school. We know that our eating habits affect how we can deliver. Error - feeding is a huge problem all over the world. Those who eat regularly and have a balanced diet that contains fruit and green and a suitable amount of fat, do better at school and work better socially. Both mental and physical health is influenced by what we eat. A common school meal also improves the school environment and affects the relationships and the social pupils between them. The Friends of the School pointed out that school food helps to reduce apostasy and ensure implementation, reduce health problems, reduce bullying and improve pupils’ learning. In addition, school food can contribute to the recruitment of food professionals. Food in school is one of many tools for education for sustainable development. When the Center Party was last in government, and we had free school fruit, you saw that more students ate more fruit and green than otherwise, regardless of social background. We believe that a common school system should build on food traditions with healthy, good and nutritious food. At the same time, there must be a large room for local design and preparation of meals. What kind of food to serve, when, to whom and how, the municipalities must decide in consultation with the schools. That the home contributes, and where appropriate, with a propensity, there must be room for action. At the same time, the scheme should be socially inclusive. All students shall be provided with school food. There are many good examples of schools that succeed in school food. Selne's school in Tromsø has fed the students themselves. Schools in Vågå municipality have different food services in both primary and secondary schools. The County of Trondelag is a major driver of school food in the county. Vega school has good local purchasing agreements for raw materials. The inner Fosen signs with good experience from both small and large primary schools. Vinje, Lyngen and Skåk – I could ram into a raft. They show that it's possible. The Stoltenberg Committee proposed school food. The centre party has proposed school food several times. The government of Solberg terminated the scheme of free fruit and green daily in school. Estimates of school fruit and school food costs are many. In the Central Party's alternative budget proposal for 2019, we made proposals to increase transfers to municipalities, with a capacity of 100 million. kr for free school fruit in all secondary schools and combined kindergartens from autumn 2019. This has been a step in the right direction. Today we have two proposals that we are alone in, and I will take them up.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e2429	The representative Marit Knutsdatter Strand then brought up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e2434	On Friday I visited the Shomen school in the new Narvik municipality. Not only was it the hottest and most beautiful place I've ever been, but the school served school food with vegetables that they grow themselves in the school's greenhouse. I was so charmed! Most students eat lunch before they go to school, but not all. Most people have dinners, but not all. And not everyone has healthy food. Children from higher social groups are more likely to carry food packages, and food packages are more often healthy. There are major social health differences in the population — and it starts to appear so too early in life. Healthy eating habits in childhood continue to reproduce, and vice versa. Social health inequalities are unfair and represent a loss both for individuals, for families and for society. Malnutrition, overweight and concentration problems due to poor eating habits are an increasing problem among Norwegian children and young people. This will be reflected in the future health statistics of increasing numbers of people with lifestyle-related diseases. Unhealthy food and lack of physical activity are among the greatest threats to future public health. Effective measures to reverse this trend now need to be taken. A school meal is primarily a public health measure, but it will also have a positive learning effect. Centres for Research on Health Promotion Work, Environment and Lifestyle at the University of Bergen have concluded that school food provides increased concentration and performance among students. And various studies have shown that students who eat regularly and have a balanced diet that contains fruit, vegetables and appropriate amounts of fat, do better at school and work better socially. The Health Directorate recommends that free fruit, milk and vegetables should be offered throughout the school on a professional basis. Many countries today offer school food. Our neighbouring countries, Sweden and Finland, have a long tradition and good experience of providing school meals to students. In addition, the school meal has a social dimension because it facilitates the gathering around common meals, which provides a basis for shared experiences by linking the learning work in school to the food served. So a collection of school meals provides opportunities to strengthen the relationship between students. A free school meal is a win-win situation. Learning, health, well-being and better public health are important contributions to meeting the growing differences we have in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e2455	That children receive adequate and proper food during their school day is important. Learning on an empty stomach is difficult for both children and adults. That is why we look with concern at the report of the Norwegian Research Council of 2011, which maped 15 000 school students' eating habits. It turns out that 14 pst. of the children do not bring their own food package. So we know that after this, the Health Directorate went out with recommendations to all school owners on food at school, where good advice is given on how to create good food experiences in school. So it's up to school owners locally how this should be followed up. We know that some people follow this up with their own attitude campaigns, and others have introduced food serving in school, which has worked very well in many places. This is about the prioritisation of resources. Introducing free school food for all is a costly and not necessarily accurate measure. We in the Christian People’s Party would therefore rather prioritise money for more teachers. We would rather have more annual work into school than free school food. We believe that the best way to balance social differences is not necessarily in free school food for everyone, but in combating child poverty through bets in a good school. The introduction of a national free school food scheme will entail significant operating costs, which we believe should be directed towards improving school quality. Here the representatives behind the proposal will have both, while the government parties have done their priority, as we stand 100 pst. rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, etc. We don't get fewer students per teacher in ordinary school education without any clear priorities. The Christian People's Party is therefore pleased that there are now fewer students per teacher than at any time in the last ten years. New figures for the 2018/2019 school year from the Education Directorate show that our policy is working. The emphasis on teacher standards at school level has resulted in more teachers in school and higher teacher density. In this school year, there are a total of 1,045 more annual educational works compared to the previous school year. There have been 3,129 more years of teaching since the 2014/2015 school year. The maximum increase in teacher’s years is between 1 and 4. steps, but there has also been an improvement of 5-10. steps. We believe that the best way to balance social differences is not in free school food for everyone, but in combating child poverty through bets on more teachers. The Christian People's Party has therefore chosen to bet on several teachers rather than free school food, which most parents still show that they take responsibility for.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e2467	Like the proposers, I'm worried about the kids who go to school without food in my stomach. It is quite right that good nutrition is important for concentration and cognitive development. No children in Norway are going to starve, but neither is anyone. In Norway, we have a long tradition of accompanied nests, but that is not an argument in itself for not changing anything. I have visited several schools and kindergartens that have found good, own solutions to ensure the children and students a healthy meal during the day. Some places there's hot food, some places there's pot for lunch, some places there's bread with blankets. Someone has the kitchen, someone doesn't have it. Some have parents who set up hard work, some do this on their own. Norway is different, municipalities are different, schools are different, and students are not least different. The left will give the schools and the school owners freedom, because it is those who know the needs best. At the National Conference of the Left this year, we had a broad debate on school food, and we were going to decide that all municipalities should consider how to offer at least one meal a day. It's a decision that provides room for local solutions. We don't want to have three national solutions across municipalities, which may not experience having a challenge in this area. But we also think that everyone can benefit from thinking about whether school food can be useful to their students, and then in what way they can meet such a need. I trust that Norwegian municipalities will take care of their children, and that they will take responsibility that no one goes long days without food in their stomach. This government has child poverty as its main priority, and our actions, such as: The left-hand coverage of free core time in kindergarten – and soon in the SFO – the anti-poverty and higher child-restraint grant scheme is all that relieves the burden on low-income families. This means that several parents have economic liberality to prioritize lunch and good food packages. We live in a welfare state that will enable everyone to live a good life, while giving extra help to those who are struggling. But I am not sure if it is the responsibility of the state to feed all children, including where parents, the school and the municipality think it is not necessary. The left prefers decisions to be made as closely as possible to those concerned, and there is no reason why the Storting should interfere with what people have in the food box. Fortunately, the Norwegian school works well for most people, but we have some challenges to address. I'm concerned that half of the hours of special education in this country are given by teachers without proper education. In other words, the kids who need the most support are getting the most help. I am concerned that we generally have too many unskilled students in school, and that the differences from school to school and from municipality to municipality are too large. That is why the Left Teachers are giving top priority to the school budgets. This is a proposal with good intentions, but the thing is that we have to give priority, also with regard to the heads that go to school. We have challenges that concern far more students and challenge the school's most important mission: to teach students and to develop into whole people.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e2482	Better diet and meals are important for children and young people. The government believes that kindergarten, school and SFO can and should be part of municipalities’ public health improvement tools. We therefore have high expectations for the municipalities in this area. This has been communicated through both the government’s recent public health report and the national action plan for better diet. We need to promote good meals and food arrangements in school and school leisure. We will also help to ensure that the health authorities’ recommendation in 20 minutes’ meal time is followed up in school. One of the measures in the Public Health Communication is that we want to bring together and identify good ideas and concrete solutions for lunch arrangements in high school and disseminate them in an appropriate way. There is no disagreement that a good diet is important for health and provides good prerequisites for learning. At the same time, policy is about priorities. Local democracy is the cornerstone of the Norwegian welfare society, and local levels carry some of the absolute largest and most comprehensive welfare systems. I want it primarily to be up to the local level to give priority to which measures are most appropriate to improve public health in each municipality. Although national numbers show that 14 pst. Of the students going to school without bringing food, there will be great local variations. According to the students' self-reporting in the 2011 research campaign, a total of 97 pst. of primary school students with food from home. Local variations indicate that the problem in one area may be so great that it will be necessary for everyone to have food at school. In some areas, obsolete measures will work well, possibly supplemented by support schemes for low-income families. In other areas it may be enough that the school has a package of broken bread and butter cheese on naps. Parents are primarily responsible for the diet of children and young people. It is therefore important that there is close cooperation with the home and that local school systems are adapted to both the children and the parents living in the municipality. In the past, we have calculated the cost of different school programmes if they are to be introduced nationally. It cost $3 billion. kr for only the raw materials of a single bread meal, including fruit, vegetables and milk. The government has given priority to more teachers, we have prioritised further training of teachers, and we will give priority to the content of the school in the years to come, in the case of national schemes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e2493	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e2498	At the level of the Council of State it seems that there is a broad consensus on the public health perspective in this matter, that school food is good for health. So it was exciting to see last week that the Minister of Public Health signed up for this discussion. She went out in the VG with great bravour and said that she would have school food in all municipalities with a parental payment according to the same model as the kindergartens, if I understood her correctly. In this way, the Minister of Public Health goes further than the Council of Sanner when she points to a concrete model. Can the Council of State Sanner confirm, or cancel, whether the play to the Minister of Public Health Sylvi Listhaug in the VG on parental school food on model from kindergarten is government policy or a play from the Advancement Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e2503	Now I haven't read the details of the play from the Minister of Public Health. What is widely agreed in this Chamber, too, is precisely the public health perspective. Where the disagreement comes in, is whether we're going to spend 3.3 or 4 or maybe even billion dollars on food for all school students when we see that it's 14 pst. who doesn't bring food at school. I have pointed out in my article different models that can be selected. In some municipalities, the challenges may be so great that it is natural that there is an offer that applies to everyone. In other municipalities – as pointed out by the Minister for Public Health, to which the representative refers – parental schemes can be a model, while in other municipalities the vast majority of children ate lunch and bring food to school. Then it is not necessary for the public to pay food for the children. Then it may be sufficient to have a package of broken bread and lubricating cheese on naps.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e2510	It's okay that the Council of State could now confirm that there was no news in the play to the Minister of Public Health, and that it played out like that for an air lock to count. But I also think it has been interesting to see the Right Movement in this discussion. The right has now at least recognized that school food is good for people's health, but it's been harder for the Right, it seems to admit that school food is good for learning. One remembers all the ridicule of the school fruit scheme, which the red-green government had. But research shows a slightly different picture, that saturated children learn better. So I want to ask the Council of State quite directly about the government and the Right now believe that school food contributes to increased learning.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e2517	Of course, the fact that the children have eaten, both lunch and lunch, contributes to good learning. There's no news either. I can't see that the Right has moved anything in this area. I think everyone has personal experience because you haven't eaten, you learn and perform worse. That's of course a thing. There is no disagreement about this. The question is whether the country should spend billions on school food. No, we don't mean that. We have given priority to more teachers, we have given priority to further education of teachers, we have major future projects on content and learning in school. In the case of school food, we believe that the municipality can take responsibility, precisely because there are so many variations between schools and between municipalities that here we have to be confident that local elected representatives will find good solutions in their area.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e2524	Everyone is positive for good schools, and everyone is positive for good food. But uniting these two things is worse. Governments pointed out that parents have the primary responsibility for children and young people’s diet. At the same time, his colleague, the Minister for Public Health, as was also pointed out in the previous exchange of lines, calls for school food. The Public Health Communication draws up the Council of State in its letter to the Committee, and in it, without mentioning it in the letter, it states, among other things. an assessment of the ability to fasten the prescription for 20 minutes without food in school. What makes the government both say that this is the responsibility of parents, and that what happens at school in the absence of food, affects the diet and the health of the students?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e2531	The health authority's recommendation is 20 minutes' meal time, I kept saying minimum. I think everyone knows that it's important, whether you go to school or you're at work, that you spend time on food and also get the opportunity to think about something else. I can't see any challenge in thinking that the school should help students get time to eat and at the same time state that it's the parents who have the primary responsibility that the children eat before they go to school, and that they have a lunch package with them. I am more surprised that the Center Party, which is otherwise concerned with traditions, does not see the value of the Norwegian tradition that we bring food packages to the school. I believe that we should hold on to the responsibility of our parents. And then we have to find good locally adapted solutions where the kids haven't eaten, or where the kids don't bring food at school. It's also part of local self-government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e2538	I would also like to thank the Minister of Public Health of the Progress Party, the good colleague of the Council of State, Mr Listhaug, who was out last week talking about school food – but at home food. It is super that more and more people agree with SV that school food is important. Or to put it a little bit more correctly: as long as the municipalities and the parents pay for it themselves, it's okay. I want to take the opportunity to warn against school food payments, and recommend Sanner to invite herself to a meeting with the Public Health Institute. The director there, Camilla Stoltenberg, will then be able to tell about school food that they believe is important for social cohesion, and stress that this must be free. The Minister’s question will then be: Does the Minister — like the Institute of Public Health — see, in a cohesion perspective, the challenges of introducing school food schemes requiring parental payment?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e2545	I pointed out in my post different models, and I think we have to admit that there should be room for in our long-range country. In some places, old-age schemes can work perfectly well, and there may be special schemes for low-income families. We have that in other areas. We have also pointed out that the municipality should in some places facilitate the feeding of children at school. But we saw how this matter lands – or not the country – when SV sat in government for eight years. SV went to elections, among other things. school food in 2005. Then it was both salmon and chicken to be served, and it ended with an apple or a banana. SV had eight years on him. It illustrates that here we have to think differently than one national scheme paid over the tax bill. We have many major, important priorities in school, and we have said that more teachers and further education are among the priority areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e2553	If a measure is to be socially equal, it must take all of them. All experience shows that those who need it all, most of all, need to make use of the offer, it must be free of charge. It is absolutely correct that SV went to the choice of salmon and chicken. It was a fantastic measure. Now we've spent quite many years, and finally we see that other parties are coming after. We're terribly happy about that. The Labour Party has turned around, and if we get a new government, we might have moved the country in the right direction. I like local adjustments, but don't the Council of State believe in the professional councils that come from the Institute of Public Health, and isn't this what he sees must be followed up on his side?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e2560	We listen to technical advice, but we also make a political assessment. I also think it is with SV – it is not that SV follows all the professional advice they receive. At least it doesn't work that way. There is no disagreement in this area about the value and importance of food, but the government believes that we need to give priority to other national issues, and there must be good local solutions that allow children and young people to get food at school if they are not prepared for it at home.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e2567	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e2574	This is about creating a health-promoting society. It's about reducing the social health differences in Norway. In Norway, social health inequalities are increasing with this government, and they are increasing more than in other countries. Health and life expectancy depend on income and education. That it's like this in Norway is a political declaration of failure. Evolution should worry the government, but it doesn't. Unhealthy diet is a known risk factor for poor health. Sunn schoolmate is a measure that reaches everyone, regardless of background. Norway does not meet its own targets for obesity and diabetes. Prevention among children and young people by providing both healthy diet and sufficient physical activity is not just a parental responsibility. It is also an authority's responsibility. There is a social responsibility that this government does not take. They try to find excuses again and again not to follow up on Storting's decision about an hour of physical activity in school every day. They refuse to look at government funds for a school food scheme for all the elephants, regardless of background. The Council of State refers in its response letter to the Committee on Public Health and to the national action plan on better nutrition, but they should read what it says on diet. They're good visions, they're good goals, but there's no action. It's not reasonable. The government party writes in the setting that the question of the introduction of a national school food system for all students will be a matter of prioritising the economic and human resources of the school. That's wrong. This is a priority between prevention or treatment, between public health or repair. It is a priority for children and young people's health, and it is a priority to reduce social health inequalities in Norway. It is a priority for raising the health of all children and young people. Yeah, it's a priority that costs money, but it's going to cost a lot more than that. In Hordaland, the county council, led by the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party, with the support of SV, has prioritised funds for school breakfast for the students – for great indignation for the Right and the Advance Party. The school feedback is that it creates a better and more inclusive school environment, and it gives more motivated elephants from the morning. All the elephants in the county now offer this, and it's a success. I see that the Council of State writes that it is parents who have primary responsibility for children and the diet of young people. Of course it is, but it is the Council of State's responsibility to reduce social health inequalities in society, and this responsibility must be taken by the Council of State. Governments must make sure that all school students get sound school food, and one must also make sure that the government is slowing down in this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e2591	A package of broken bread and a lubricating cheese is the recipe of the Council of State, but this is hardly the job of the teachers. This is our responsibility and not yet another task – which is not really about being a teacher – that we are going to push at them. If we don't take this price tag right now, we're going to get huge shares of lifestyle diseases. It's going to fill our health budgets in the coming years. The social health differences in Norway are increasing, but together we could do something about it. It's about creating good habits early that you take life out. We know that it is those young people who come from their homes with few resources, who have the best benefit of a school meal, but all benefit from school food. The learning effect is documented. We have research that points in that direction. I think it's especially that you set learning up against nutrition. It's about the whole child, the whole student, seeing the whole need and being clear that there's some things that must be cleared away before there's room to get in place good learning. The professionals are clear. The Health Directorate is clear in its input to the Public Health Communication. WHO recommends it as an intervention. The Public Health Institute pointed to school food as the solution when the report in 2018 showed that social health inequalities are increasing. The subject of social inequality in health is clear. It's time we listened. I think it is good that we have gone away from the discussion about hot food. This is about local variation. It's about Norwegian food culture, which is fully compatible with having school food. We can do this because we know that it's gonna lift everybody up. The Labour Party is the party on the Stortinget which shows in its alternative budgets that they prioritise school food. We're dividing the exposure to SV, but we're recording that in the case of the alternative budgets, we're a little bit ahead of us. But I am sure that with the Workers' Party and the Swedish Government, we will figure this out together. It's just a shame the government isn't on the same track.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e2606	I hear the government parties say that it is more important to bet on more teachers, it is more important to bet on continuing education, it is more important to bet on skills reform. It is nice that it is not shown in their state budgets or revised state budgets. It's the opposition that has the most money in this area as well. It appears from the Progress Party that they do not want to spend taxpayers’ money providing food for children and young people in school, but use taxpayers’ money to tear down toll stations. I would say that as a father and grandfather I have been in many kindergartens and followed it to sit around a common table, have a common meal, where the kids go to the refrigerator, bring out healthy food, sit in small communities and eat together. Whether it's a kindergarten or a school: I think that's important. It's about social cohesion when 14 pst. of the children do not bring school food – 14 pst. is not insignificant – that parents themselves have to make sure that their children carry food packages. I think that as a society – whether small or large communities in a municipality, in a county – we as a big group, together with the school, together with the parents, have to contribute to this part. All reports show that healthy meals contribute to better learning and – at the same time – more tranquility. We also know that physical activity contributes to better learning and more calm. To date, the Education Committee has visited kindergartens and schools and has seen this in practice. Everyone thinks this is very good, but you have to take responsibility yourself. I think we have both the advice and the opportunity to take this responsibility, along with parents and school. It is a good investment and a good adjustment for the future for all young people and for the municipalities. It contributes to smaller differences. It contributes to social cohesion. It contributes to better public health and to creating good habits in small communities in a classroom at a school. Contributing to healthy food, physical activity and better public health, we have a responsibility for this proposal – and we have money for it. We also have money for more teachers, which we also need.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e2617	It has been interesting to hear the debate. It seems like everyone's worried about these hungry kids, and you should be. It's about 85 000 children every day going to school without a lunch. At the same time, it seems as if someone forgets that the anxiety of some students in the classroom affects the whole class. The action is for all the students. I also have to say that the solution to the government is liberating honestly: the parents are going to tighten up, the schools are going to tighten up, the municipalities must at least tighten up, while the government – lucky enough – is getting free. Everyone else has to take responsibility. The Christian People's Party and the other government parties seem to be wonderfully focused on priorities. Yes, the Christian People's Party chose to go into a government that primarily prioritises tax cuts to the richest in this country. This government has prioritised over 20 billion. kr in tax cuts. In that comparison, school food is just a little bit of money. It was interesting to hear State Council Sanner list the government’s priorities – more teachers, further education, content in school. All of those points are completely in agreement in this hall. In all alternative state budgets, the Labour Party and the other opposition parties have prioritised this with equal or even more resources. It's not where the disagreement lies. It's also special to hear the right parties say that school food is kind of something the state can't afford, and that it's exactly school food that tilts the economic balance of the state budget. It may be extra special that there is the excuse this government comes into this case, a government that has set a new Norway record in public money – there have never been major government budgets and public expenditure – and a new Norway record in extracting billions from the oil fund, and which independently still has the ideological fiscal policy that has benefited the richest. One clearly does not give priority to all schoolchildren – rather, quite differently. It's a shame that we're going down today, but at least we're going to continue the fight.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e2629	A few weeks ago, I met 18-year-old Daniel Lie, who has had dyslexia and learning and writing difficulties and experienced a special education that doesn't work, a lack of competence in his school and low expectations. I find it very difficult to defend against him and other students who are just experiencing this, to spend several billion dollars on a national school meal system, when you see that most people have food packages from home. 8 000 students leave high school every year without being able to read, write and calculate properly. Many of these fall from high school, and we know that falling from high school is going to have greater consequences in the future. I also find it very difficult to meet these students and defend that we will spend billions of dollars on school food in the future. No one is against finding good local arrangements. The truth is that almost 97 pst. of the children in primary school bring school food. There are fewer in high school, but it is also because many in high school bring food money from home and go to the local store and buy food there. It may not be so healthy, I agree, but it's not that they're starving. I am because the schools where you can see that there are bigger challenges, even in the Right-steered municipalities, can have school lunch as a meeting place in the morning. You can have different school lunches, and you can have something after school. I'm very positive about that. But I'm not positive that you're going to spend billions on this alone. Yes, the school is going to smooth out social differences. But then you also have to ask yourself, what is most important to balance social differences? The truth is, most of what you do in school can make you learn a little bit more. The question is how to make those that we know work the most learn. How can we promise those students who are not being promised today? I believe that this is a small sign of the idea-dryness of social democracy, because instead of asking questions about what's most important at school, what's not working, what research says is most important to balance social differences, why there's so much difference between municipalities and between the A- and B-class, the Labour Party asks the question: What responsibility and what expenditures do the very most parents have today, can we take over? I think it's a very bad approach to politics. I understand that there may be a popular campaign case here and now, but I don't think it's getting to grips with the most important thing in school for those students who need it the most. That's what's most important to the Right. I am very pleased that there are right-wing municipalities that have implemented different local arrangements, and that there are Arbeiderpartit-steered municipalities that have done the same thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e2645	I understand very well that the red-green government did not give priority to spending the big money on hot school lunch. I think they also realized over the years that there were many other important, good measures that could be given priority, measures that I think we are all happy with today, when we see that things are going better in Norwegian school. We're supposed to be happy about that. The efforts we've had in the last few years after the promise of knowledge make things better in school. But we haven't gotten far enough, and then in the next few years we have to spend the big money on what's most important.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e2649	I'm starting to get a little low blood sugar -- sorry if I'm a little angry, grumpy and unfocused, but it's been a long time since lunch. I am an eternal optimist, and I am absolutely sure that the time is working for this matter, and that the matter is about to turn around. It has moved since Kristin Halvorsen served chicken and salmon. But while the other parties just laughed at us, we introduced free fruit to all high school students in Norway. This is not about local adaptations, of course. It is not about special education money either. This is about Norwegian municipalities not being left alone to make this important contribution to learning, well-being, public health and social development. SV believes that this should be prioritised and financed through the health budget, and that it should not be at the expense of other school bets, bets the schools need. Since this measure is very important for public health, we believe that it makes sense that the money is allocated from there. In addition, SV believes that the school meal should be free of charge for all and that an inclusive common school should be open to all. If you are offered school food, it should not depend on whether your parents can afford it or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e2661	The government parties have been at the heart of this whole matter. It's too expensive. They will not raise children and young people's health; they will not give priority to concentration and learning effects; they will not give priority to well-being. When I hear Minister of Knowledge Sanner say that this is too expensive, I am sure. But once again, I'm positive. This case is going to be the big school policy case for the next decade, and we're going to win it, true my words. Unfortunately, this is not happening today, but it is going to happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e2664	Many schools are running school food. How do they get them to the ones that's going on today? What are the assumptions? Who's doing the job? What's the cost? Who's paying? Which students are involved? And what resources can be used? There are many here who just see problems, while some of us just see opportunities. Locally, there are many possibilities. For professionals, those who can and understand how school food works, it is no longer a matter of whether school food is going to be part of Norwegian school, but when and how. According to the friends of Skolematen, the school food reform is already under way. The councils are knocking on the table with that bill of three to four billion. kr is not worth the dividends we get with school food. At the same time, the Health Directorate points out that it costs us 154 billion annually. Nordics do not follow national dietary councils. The schools can do something about this. The right-wing representatives use speaking time to set this against other school priorities. But then I would also like to highlight that school food benefits from other challenges in school. Elsewhere, the right tends to be concerned with secondary non-response. I encourage you to note now. The County of Trøndelag pointed out school food as a tool to reduce the drop-out in secondary education. There's been great efforts to raise this, and the experience is that it works. The OECD has argued that differences between girls and boys are greater in Norway than in many other countries. A resultant problem is just special education. When the Stoltenberg Committee draws out school food as one of many tools to do something about it, I think we need to listen. We have convincing facts on the table, we have great opportunities, some small challenges, but the bill is not near the gain we get if we make this investment. School food should be brought in.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e2671	The working party believes that all students should have access to a healthy Norwegian meal every day at school. In these debates there are some concepts, some statements that go back, which I am a little over. One is saying that there is a broad political consensus that proper diet is important, as was also said by the Right-wing Representatives today. It's hard to disagree with. It's kind of like saying it's nice with the sun in the summer. The question is not whether you agree that the students are wise to eat healthy. The question is what you want to do to make it a reality. When you talk about food packages, it's a food package that one of the seven students doesn't get to go to school. So the Norwegian tradition that the Minister of Knowledge is talking about, it's a tradition that doesn't include all students. It's a tradition that excludes someone, and I don't hold onto such traditions. If you want to give your son or daughter a lunch package at school, the Labour Party rapporteur will not stand by in the school gate and confiscate the food package. But we have to make sure that all the students have the same good offer. It's said that the most important thing is to contribute to knowledge about what a good and right meal is. Well, we've done that since the war and probably before that too. So it's not the information or the index finger that's important. The reality is that the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left leave an important factor in balancing social inequality with the municipalities, the schools and the teachers themselves. Every tenth grader in the sixth grade doesn't eat lunch. One out of seven doesn't bring food packages. And we know very much who the students are. It is those young people who come from home with little time and bad advice, i.e. with few resources, who do not get food packages from home. Research on school feeding programs shows that it is precisely those students who have the greatest benefit of having a single meal at school. I have no problem defending this priority. I'm sure many of us have met students like Daniel, as Tybring-Gjedde's representative pointed out. If it is that it is difficult to meet Daniel or other students who are concerned about, for example. Reading and writing training, and defending the use of money on school food to them over other measures, what does the Right say to all those students if they ask if any of the 25 billion could be used. are tax cuts used, for other measures, whether special educational services, health sisters or school meals? The answer is that this is a matter of priority. The working party spends the large amount of money in school on quality, teachers, teacher training, practical learning, digital tools. We use the health budget for school food, and that's a priority I don't have any problems with. We spend money on quality and on school food, not on big tax cuts. That's our priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e2681	I really didn't intend to sign up for posts today, but it seems like you're trying to argue against something that the government and the Right don't take up, and don't want to hear our main argument, which is also my main argument, because the state shouldn't take responsibility for school food. When 97 pst. Of the high school students bringing food, we're going to spend billions to reach 3 pst.? There are far more accurate measures, which many schools already have today, to help the 3 pst. that don't bring food. That's a lot of good examples. You bring forward a high school in Trøndelag that has found a good order – yes, they do, without the Storting saying they have to. This happens quite many places. As a mother, I have seen it as a matter of course that I am going to make sure that my children have both eaten lunch and have lunch, and I would be very happy to join in and decide what these children are going to bring with them in the lunch package at school. There are a few, three psts that don't get it, and of course we're going to help them. The right and government are not good nutrition for the children in school. We are not against well-being and measures that promote good learning, but I am at least very opposed to spending so much money on 3 pst. by students at school. I think it's quite rich when SV's representative is standing here and talking about this, they're going to spend so much money on – I think SV's solution is going to cost 12 billion. kr. They're making 500 million. Kr in continuing education for teachers – an action that is far higher on the list of what is actually important for Norwegian students to have good learning in school. It's nice that you want to do that, and in a non-profit world you might have had endless money, but you actually have to give priority. The fact that we have now received 3,000 more teachers in school and that almost 35,000 have received continuing education is important. And I have great faith that the municipalities and the counties – as they do today – are able to secure the students who actually need it the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e2694	On the contrary, I feel that there are no parallel discussions here. It's pretty clear what the right parties want or don't want. They don't want to be part of the promise that could equalize social differences in health. You're also a little bit confused about the statistics. We have several studies that show that 51 pst. Several times a week of primary school employees experience that students are unfocused because they have not eaten enough. In terms of health data, we know that the overweight problem is real – that 15 pst. by Norwegian 8-year-olds with overweight and 23 pst. by the 17-year-olds. Then it's too easy to push this over to the municipalities. This is something we could have done jointly – a promise that everyone could earn, regardless of their parents' background and their economy. And no, it's not like you just get this for free. We pay for this together through the tax slip. We're raising them in groups because we can even out health differences together. The municipalities take their responsibility, but I, who comes from a minimum income municipality in Eastfold, would then have more than gladly taken the state on board to get this very promise. We also know that in the municipalities to which it is referred in Trøndelag, the County has been in and contributed muscles. We could sort this out together, because we know that our children and young people need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e2701	To the last representative from Right, who argued that there should be no government funding to subsidize a school meal in the municipalities: I understand that the argument is that most people have food packages in the school, and that this must allow parents to do in the future as well. I think it's sad that we haven't come to the idea of how we're going to have a health-promoting society. I think it's sad that the plural, with the government, stands up and gives the impression that one doesn't see the value of raising everyone in a flock, because it's also like 14 pst. does not bring food in the school. That's actually quite a lot. One believes that one should reduce social health inequalities in Norway by having a policy for those in need, because that is what one suggests – a policy for those in need. Only those who are so unhappy that they don't have parents – or other circumstances – who bring them food at school, we're going to have a policy for. It leads to stigmatisation, and it won't work. It's a poor policy, and I can't understand that we haven't come anymore today. We were better in Norway after the war when we saw the value of doing universal action in school – just to promote popular greetings. We need a school food system that includes everyone. We don't need a policy for the worthy needy – and otherwise one should be his own success smith. This is not what public health policy is all about. I think the debate we've had here is quite revealing. I don't know the debate again based on the debate we had last week on public health. Then there were a lot of big, beautiful words, but now we get the reality. So there is no willingness to give priority to the prevention of public health. Here's a whole other thing that's being prioritised.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e2712	I don't think the representative Toppe needs to be so sad. This government has done a lot to raise public health. But when the state is going to lift, it's completely unnecessary to lift 97 pst. by high school students, who already get good food, to reach the 3 pst. Which actually needs this food. There is a constant reference to the tax relief granted by the government to ensure good Norwegian jobs. You might want to remind the Working Party that of those around 22 billion. kr which has been taxed, the Workers' Party has in fact agreed with 15 to 16 of the billions. In fact, most of that money has also been agreed by the Workers' Party to use to strengthen the Norwegian economy and Norwegian jobs. Again: I think you try to argue as if the government has a policy it doesn't have. We work a lot with public health, and if the representative of Toppe listened to me, I was also very concerned that the municipalities and county councils must be involved in securing the students who actually need that help. But it doesn't have to mean that the state will spend billions of dollars taking over the responsibility for the children's food when it's completely unnecessary. I've checked a little too. I'm very concerned about equalizing both the difference and the gender differences. I took a quick search into the Stoltenberg report and also checked with one of the members. They don't charge for free school food, so I'm a little uncertain about where it comes from. If both he and I are wrong, the representative who has pulled it out, please show me, because then I have to read a little more about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e2723	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e2739	At the request of the Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e2748	The last skills reform we had in Norway was a big message in 1997. Then I started school, and a lot of things have happened since then. Knowledge, technology and working life are changing at an ever faster pace. It makes us have to change the way we work, and many people have to learn something new more times in life. In the past, education was the ticket to a class trip; in the future, we need a rocking pass. I am therefore very pleased that the government is making a wide-ranging competence reform, in close cooperation with the educational institutions and the social partners, and that very many efforts have been made in recent years to revitalise the policy of competence, especially for those groups that we know are most likely to experience social changes on the body. It's basically about a support bar in our society -- that we have high trust, which depends on people feeling that they can contribute, and that they have skills that people need. It's an individual responsibility, but it's also a social responsibility to make sure people don't go out on date. The government and the Right have been very clear that there are in particular four challenges we need to solve. We need to ensure a better offer of short, flexible, tailor-made study programmes that people can carry out while they are at work, while they have housing loans, full employment and a family life. Then we'll have to deal with the UH sector and the colleges. The industry program, which the government has initiated this year, I think can be a very good model for it in the future, and I am happy to gain experience from it. Secondly, we need to ensure that more employers invest in the skills of their employees, for example: through various support schemes. We also need to ensure that the individual has the opportunity and motivation to take more training, and we can look, among other things, at various possible changes in the Loan Fund, as already announced. We need to do more to get those who have fallen out of high school to get a way back, for example. through the system of professional letters at work. It also needs to be easier for people who may experience that their letter is out of date, to get a two-letter. Last but not least, we must ensure that the county takes seriously its role as a competence policy actor. The needs are very different across sectors and sectors, and the counties can be a driving force in creating cooperation between business clusters and educational institutions. In the last six months, the Right has worked specifically to develop a new policy of competence, including: proposes many concrete measures to address the UH sector, to reform the Loan Fund and to give firms new incentives. After the publication of the report on the Right's proposal, it took just under a week before the Workers' Party promoted many, almost identical, proposals. I could use the opportunity to hustle that the Workers' Party is struggling to develop its own policy after six years in opposition, but I am simply choosing to take it as a joyous sign, because I think it is good that the opposition also supports the direction that the government has thrust out. It is good that the opposition wants the government to consider several proposals that the government is already assessing, and that the Minister of Knowledge has announced, because I hope it means that we can have a very good and thorough debate when the government presents its reform of competence, and that we might discuss a little more concrete proposals than what is in the proposal for a representative today. I don't see the need for the Storting to ask the government to investigate something they've already investigated or investigated, but I'm glad that there's been good cooperation and commitment in the committee, and that we've had an interesting hearing with good input from the social partners. According to a new Fafo report, it's only 15 pst. Of us who are afraid that our own competence will be out of date, we are very much the savior of everyone else's work than our own. I'm not shaman, but I think it can change in the near future, and then we need a broad competence reform with concrete proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e2771	You've traditionally talked about learning as something that happens in the first 18 years of life. Now we have to talk about learning happening all our lives, and there needs to be a paradigm shift about how we think about education. Work life is changing rapidly. Technology is making great progress. It gives us new opportunities, but many of the jobs that exist today can be completely changed or gone tomorrow. Many feel afraid that they may lose their job, or that it will be fundamentally altered, so that they are not able to hang out with them. The message of the Labour Party and the reason why we are promoting this proposal is that we should make the best use of the Norwegian model to meet this challenge, make sure that there is something we can solve together, and not that each one is left to himself. The challenge is that when the government pushes very much of the responsibility for e.g. financing to enterprises and workers, making it more difficult to achieve the necessary conversion. The Labour Party wants a wide range of skills reform in order to ensure that workers are safe and able to fill their skills. We need an obligating agreement. We want a partner-driven competence fund to ensure funding and the possibility for employees to develop their right to continuing training. First of all, the reason we've proposed this is because we're impatient. We agree with many of the proposals made by the government. It is also nice that the government has taken in some of the proposals the Workers' Party made four years ago. I just want to say to Mr Tybring-Gjedde that when we see good proposals, we support them, but an internal seminar, an internal report in the Right, which is being lost in nothing in the departments, has no value. That is why we are promoting some of the good proposals here today, which the Right is probably choosing to vote against. We believe the size of the challenge shows that much more effort is needed than what has been put on the table so far. We also believe that there is a need to take overall national responsibility. Competence reform shall respond to a change in society, not just to changes and needs in some sectors or sectors. Therefore, I believe that the authorities and the parties have to sit around the same table and find important measures in a binding framework. This has been made concrete by the Workers' Party through proposals for an obligatory agreement, the labour market competence agreement. We also promote this proposal because we have higher ambitions for a reform of competences than the government has. If you need concrete proposals to be in favour or against, you do not have to look beyond the proposal that is on the table today. Our ambitions are shown through our alternative budgets that we promote each harvest, where for 2019 we have a commitment to competence reform of over 1 billion. kr – much more offensive than government. But they are also reflected in the proposals we have made. Firstly, it is a proposal for workers to be entitled to continue their training. It is not just the needs of the company or management alone that should be crucial. We need systems to take care of employees' needs, to ensure their involvement, both within the company and if they are to lose their jobs. Otherwise, there's no point in talking about nobody going out on date. This is the government against. We want a new system of real-time competence assessment. There's a lot of learning going on in the world of work. The workers have the skills and knowledge they do not necessarily have a paper on, but we are concerned that the workers should be able to possess their own skills, even on the day they have to change jobs – or we should say – when they have to change jobs. It's important to us. That's what the government is against today. We propose a national partner-driven competence fund to press funding, to get pressure on the work to be unbureaucratic, based on best practice, adapted to the regional and local needs of the workplace – that is, it differs significantly from the Danish model. This is the government against. We also propose, following the input of several employee organisations, to introduce a long-term lifelong learning plan, as in other sectors where there is greater national pressure and coordination, simply to raise the policy of competence up to the policy of the A division. This is against the government. Finally, it says something about the level of ambition when the government parties write in the setting: ‘The majority agree with the government that the State should provide support if individuals or employers invest less in competence than is necessary from a social point of view.’ This is a wait-and-see attitude, to get into the back. We believe it is right to be proactive and to contribute to the ability of all sectors to take responsibility and that a need does not become a problem. There are higher ambitions. I will address the proposals put forward by the Labour Party either alone or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e2808	The representative Martin Henriksen has taken up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e2813	One of the most important jobs that politicians have is to make sure that more people are working, and that more people are working longer. The rapporteur said that no one should go out to date, and that is a vision I fully share. Some 400,000 adults have serious problems with reading, almost 500,000 have problems with billing, and almost 800,000 do not master simple digital tools. These are huge numbers and can affect people's opportunities in working life when technology and robotization are constantly shooting at speed. We need a strategy to make sure that as many people as possible are in work longer, and that those at risk of falling out are filled in. We know that there is a clear link between the level of education and participation in the labour market, and that most of the workers will need to fill knowledge in the course of their careers. That is why a reform of competence is necessary. Everyone agrees on the need for a reform of competences, and that is why the government has worked for a long time on precisely what the Workers' Party is dealing with in its proposal. Our competence reform should include, inter alia: ensure that no one should go out to date and that more people should be able to work any longer. I look forward to it being presented to the Stortinget in 2020. The proposal from the Workers' Party that we have discussed in the Committee is a good self-marking for them, and what is being addressed is, as I say, things that the government has already worked on for a long time. I'm prepared to take a bigger debate on this when the big news is available, but I'm still going to spend some time explaining the issue of why we need to have a reform. We're in the middle of a transition in the world of work. There is nothing new, but the pace of technological development and its changes is faster than before. Automation and robotization are positive advances for society, but then we must ensure that it leads to increased competitiveness and economic growth, not exclusion and unemployment. There are several reasons why there is a need to look at the opportunities we have for lifelong learning and whether the framework conditions for investment in new competences are sufficiently good. Firstly, the person who invests in new skills does not reap the full benefit. Investments in new competences have positive ring-fences in addition to the person or organisation making the investment. Secondly, in some sectors, learning opportunities are limited. Although migration requirements are increasing, the share of those participating in continuing training has fallen in recent years. Private sector employees, for example: less than public sector employees both in education and higher education. Thirdly, public universities and colleges are not equipped to respond to the need for continuing education now. There is a clear expectation that universities and colleges will develop market offers, but experience is limited. Fourthly, technological changes lead to an increased need for digital skills. There is today a high demand for different forms of digital competence, and demand is greater than that of newly educated people alone. Our goal is to create a more complete and flexible system that facilitates lifelong learning – ranging from primary, secondary, adult, post-secondary or university education to job empowerment. We're going to make flexible solutions that fit people's lives. We are therefore in the process of designing a reform of competences, and this work is to be based on the national strategy of competence that all the social partners have committed themselves to. We have great ambitions on behalf of competence policy. At least we look forward to the debate, but it is natural to wait until the keynote on the reform of competences is ready, so that we can have a debate and look at this in a broader sense.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e2836	First of all, it is a broad political consensus that we want a wide range of skills reform. The centre party believes we need competence and education across the country. Decentralised education services and higher education institutions locally provide people with a lower threshold in education and better access to education they can combine with other jobs. In addition, research and development must be close to people so that they can take into account the industries and the administration we have locally and that it is relevant to use. We need expertise and recruitment across the country to ensure that the machinery of Norway is maintained in industries and municipalities throughout the country. Competence takes us forward and helps people to live good lives. Changes are getting faster, both for business, work and family life. Competence must lubricate the machinery and secure us into the future. We've been talking about lifelong learning for a long time, but now something has to happen. Enterprises and workers must make their time available. Educational institutions – whether they are educational centres, study centres, educational associations, specialised schools, universities, universities or others – can contribute to the professional environment and professionals. Now the state must rig the arrangements and funding so that our eternal competence reform is brought to life. Competence reform is designed to ensure up-to-date knowledge and competence for a long-term working life, both at work and in the workplace, as well as for individual workers. Competence is a currency in which Norway will have a high price. Continuing education is not a given form, but has many variants. Several proposals have already been made for measures of competence in the organisation and business sectors. Among other things, the policy of competence between social partners is important. The Centre Party is in favour of cooperation between the authorities, social partners and educational institutions in order to promote and facilitate lifelong learning. We do not support giving political leadership to the negotiations between the parties. Several consultation approaches and those concerned also consider finding skills to be better than fund competences. The centre party believes that the vocational schools today are particularly important for a wide range of educational aspects for skilled workers. Vocational schools must be provided with continuing training for persons holding a vocational or bachelor's certificate and also with continuing training for those who do not have a natural place in secondary education or at universities and colleges. We will expand the vocational education sector with far more places of study in the years to come. We also need to facilitate the further development and dissemination of vocational schools that have already developed good services in areas where the national need for skills is high. Universities and colleges can also learn from vocational schools with a view to getting closer to work. The institution sector is also important for relevant research and knowledge. Furthermore, it is important that real competences can be acquired through paid or unpaid work, education, organisational experience or other relevant means, and that this can be demonstrated to the employee. Lifelong learning must be realised in an interaction between individual initiative, job organisation and public support. The Centre Party believes that better ways must be developed to enable workers to have their skills documented so that they can take them further into their professional and labour life. Moreover, the industry programme has proved to be successful, and there should be more. Industries are subject to conversion and rapid change for several reasons, including: digitisation, climate change and changing trends. Action here is good both for business and for work. Legislation, grants, loan schemes, taxes and taxes are among the instruments we need to look at. A review of the national qualifications framework is needed. It's healthy for Stortinget to have debates on competence policy, and I look forward to more in the time to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e2857	Today's work life is constantly changing. In order to be up-to-date, there is a need to fill knowledge and competence throughout the professional life. It is therefore important that people be given the opportunity to develop all their abilities throughout their lives. It is good for the individual and gives society more skilled labour. In the SV work programme, we propose to introduce a right of continuing training for all workers in Norway. Through a continuing training reform, all workers shall be entitled to a paid leave in order to take part in continuing training. This presupposes that funds are allocated to this in the wage bill to finance the reform. In addition, we will establish a life support service tailored to adults in education that ensures that no one has to take up loans to complete primary or secondary education, and secure adult training services that can be combined with care obligations and part-time jobs. In addition, it is important to stress the importance of strengthening vocational education and training programmes in municipalities. SV will facilitate the provision to adults of a broader range of training courses with a view to improving the measures of the qualification programme and becoming more individualised, so that it becomes a real entrance door to working life. Norway is a country rich in natural resources and knowledge. These advantages must be used to create new, sustainable jobs and to develop new climate-friendly technologies. The best experience from Norwegian oil and industrial policy and history shows that Norway can develop new jobs and values that benefit everyone. Climate-friendly industries have been a competitive advantage for many years, and this will become increasingly important. Norway can no longer rely on oil and gas revenues alone, but must switch to the green shift. Employment will change as a result, and we will need access to new and different skills. To clarify this change of pace, first of all, we need to stimulate the development of a broader provision of education and further education at universities and higher education institutions, which today depends on the payment of participants and on varying demand. Secondly, higher vocational education must play an important role in meeting the future needs of society. Today, vocational schools cover a wide range of educational aspects and are an independent alternative to university or higher education. In addition to continuing training for persons with professional or bachelor letters, continuing training which does not have a natural place in secondary education or at universities and colleges has found its place in the vocational schools. Thirdly, there is a need to adapt to study support and, in addition, to modify and adapt the rules for lifelong learning. We refer to previous proposals to open up the possibility of getting student support at less than 50 pst. study burden and an opportunity to receive study support for more than eight years in specific cases. SV will focus on the importance of investigating modification of the 50 pst requirement. studies in order to receive training aid, so that training of a lesser extent can also provide for training aid; extension of the maximum eight-year study aid ceiling in specific cases, increase of the age limit for reduced study aid from the current 45-year maximum limit own schemes for grants, supplementary loans and adult reimbursement. Norwegian working life changes rapidly. In the next decades, most of us will change both jobs and occupations several times. At the same time, employers need new skills and workers' skills need to be updated frequently. The government needs to take this as seriously as possible – and quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e2888	The jobs of today and the future are far more specialised and competence-based than before, and there are not many jobs to get for those who have not completed their education. Fortunately, there are far more people who both complete secondary education and take higher education now than in generations before us, but still there are many who fall away, and there are still many adults who do not have the skills they need to get the jobs that exist. And in the future it will also be that many of those who have actually managed to complete further and higher education, are not quite sure to have a job all their life. The transition we are going through, including: The transition to the zero-emission society means that we constantly need new skills, and that what some of us used to do is no longer as relevant. We need to facilitate the continued contribution of good people — and the development of their knowledge — even if what they've been doing is no longer profitable or relevant. We need to create a system that takes care of the individual's and society's need for continuing education, and a system that allows those who never got the chance to complete higher education or take higher education initially, also get it, even if they've passed 25 years. That is why I am very pleased that the government has announced that they will present the competence reform Learn Your Life in 2020. I'm excited about what it will contain, and I'm looking forward to the debate around it, but there's no doubt that we need tools that ensure a resilient and inclusive working life in the future, even if it becomes more knowledge-based. I thought that here today I would just briefly highlight some of the points and expectations that are important to the Left, but on the basis that this is a problem that we come into much more thoroughly at a later stage. The first is that it is very important that we stick to the free principle. If we are to continue to have a high proportion of the population taking higher education, this must be a good thing that is available to everyone, regardless of background and the economy of their parents. All shall be able to take higher education free of charge when knowledge is the main currency of a society. Secondly, it is important that we ensure that more people get a new chance. I hope we can take a look at, for example. the age limit for the right to secondary education, so that people who have the motivation to complete at a later stage of life have the opportunity to do so. Thirdly, I hope we can also think about how people can acquire competence throughout their lives. Although others have to specialize, it doesn't mean that everyone has to become a theoretical academic. We need to be better at making good practice and at having good transitions between the different education systems and levels of education, and perhaps also having several types of shorter courses or training for people who need very concrete refills. A good example of a reform of continuing training that has been very successful is the reform of continuing training for teachers called Quality Competence. It has reached out widely and has given very many teachers a professional boost, but it is also a very costly reform. It may be challenging to ensure equal funding for continuing education in all disciplines, but we also need to assess whether there are some subjects that are particularly important to raise in this type of bet. At least we have to make sure that there are more people who get good opportunities, as teachers have been given. The left will not vote for the proposals we are dealing with here today, because there is already more work going on in the government. But our welfare community depends on us finding good ways to include everyone in the working life, and then more knowledge for more people throughout their lives is crucial.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e2907	I would like to thank the representatives behind the proposal for putting competence reform on the agenda. This is an important work that I am pleased that the government is now, fortunately, in the process of – a reform of competence, learning throughout life, which will cover the entire working life. A historical commitment to work and business shall be developed and, in this context, the Cooperation Agreement National Strategy on Competences for 2017-2021, signed by the Government, the social partners, the Adult Education Association – VOFO – and the Sametinget, shall be central. I want to spend some of my time on the role that study associations can play in the reform of their competences. VOFO is currently making an important effort in this field by being a catalyst for knowledge and dialogue. It is a speaker for how the Norwegian volunteering is innovative and with a low threshold, central arenas for skills that are more sought after than before by the Norwegian industry. Knowledge and learning — yes, it also happens outside the school system. It is not just formal competence that will contribute to a good competence reform. A good skills reform also links volunteering, represented by the Adult Education Association, to working life. Training and work experience are important when entering the labour market or when changing jobs. But if you can show that you've been active in a volunteer organization, you're showing a commitment and a desire to contribute to something bigger than yourself. Employers today have begun to notice whether a jobseeker has experience from a voluntary organisation, because that experience often shows that one has good competence also at the interpersonal level. It is an important competence for working life and for being a good learning partner as well as a good colleague at work. Experience from a voluntary organisation provides at the same time a valuable competence when it comes to processes and governance. This is learning that takes place outside the formal education system, but it is equally vital knowledge that fits well into a forward-looking and innovative skills reform. Then, of course, it is absolutely essential that our formal education system can also have a listening attitude to the needs of the working and business life of the future. This means willingness to adapt and flexibility in order to make the necessary changes and adaptations to the needs of the future. Vocational schools appear to be a particularly exciting and important type of school. Their way of combining practical professional experience with theory, I think, gives them particularly good prerequisites for becoming an important player in this work of competence. Competence reform must use the resources that already exist, as we find them in the voluntary and formal education system, while at the same time ensuring the future's competence needs, which are not necessarily fully known today. The need for skills in working life is constantly changing. So it is important that we listen to those who wear the shoe. This is not least the case for young people and young workers. We in the Christian People's Party have high expectations for the reform of competences Learn all our lives, and we look forward to it being rolled out and becoming an important catalyst for building the necessary skills in the future, as both the formal education system and the public information organisations can play an important role.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e2925	In spring 2020, the government is presenting the reform of competence Learn all your life. The aim of the reform is that no one should go out to date when the technology and changes in working life require new or different competences. If we are to develop a sustainable welfare society, we need more jobs and more people to work longer. Competence reform is about all of us, but let me still draw up some examples: those who have dropped out of high school and who have worked as unskilled for 20 years and who see that they need a letter to be able to work at retirement age those who work in enterprises where new technologies require new skills those who work in businesses where the technology causes the job to fall away, and you need a different competence to take a different job Competence reform is also about highly educated people. They also experience changes that require professional replenishment. The work on reform is well under way. Several initiatives have been put before the Stortinget and have been endorsed by the Stortinget. In 2019, we have set aside 30 million. kr to sectoral programme, which is a cooperation project with the social partners. One of the sectoral programmes developed is for industry and construction, the other for health and care. One of Norway's competitive advantages is our ability to use new technologies. That's why we've done almost 60 million. SEK in 2019 for the development of more flexible continuing training provision in digital competence. These offers shall be developed in cooperation between specialised schools, colleges or universities and enterprises and businesses. They should be able to be combined with almost full-time jobs. Not all adults have completed primary or secondary school. We are now adapting training for them also through modular training at primary and vocational level. In this way, more people are better able to build a letter by combining training with work. We have also doubled the funds for the Competence plus scheme from 2013 to 2019. About 60000 workers have been participating in courses since 2013. We also look at the system of real-time competence assessment and how it can be improved. Learning is not limited to the education system, and evidence of skills acquired in the workplace is valuable both for individuals and for society. The Government also assesses different incentive schemes that can contribute to increased investment in skills development. It is important that we carefully evaluate such schemes. We need to avoid expensive schemes that simply shift labour costs to the state without increasing investment. I am concerned that the reform of skills plays a part in working life. Therefore, we cooperate with the social partners, and actions should not undermine the self-reliance of the labour force on the development of competences. On 4 June the Committee of Experts on Continuing Education delivered its report. The committee's general message is that the education system is too little adapted to modern working life. The committee points out that some parts of the education system are too rigid and too much based on the idea of training once. It's no longer like that, we have to go more in and out of education and training, and our system has to reflect this. The Committee proposes action at all levels of the education system. Many of the proposals are in line with government policy in the field and measures taken or under investigation. We will now examine the various proposals in the report. I have sent the sample report to the hearing and look forward, of course, to all the recordings we get in this process. The deadline is set in September. This will be an important basis for the communication to the Storting and for the further development of the reform of competences in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e2965	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e2970	I would like to thank the Council of State for the article. I'm very happy that everyone now says that you want a reform of competence. However, I am uncertain whether the entire government has understood that. They make several proposals that individually destroy the objectives of the reform of competences. Other conversion schemes are proposed for student support, which increasingly lock students and institutions to offer full degrees of Bachelor and Master, when the labour market demands something else – shorter and more flexible courses. The funding system for universities and colleges is being changed, so that it is more rewarding to the full. You remove the interest exemption from previous education, and we see that in many places in the country it is cut off in decentralised education. When we know that the reform of skills will require that more education be taken near the place of residence, the question is simply: how does this relate? Does the government talk about these issues together, and will the Minister of Knowledge take the initiative to clean up, so that there is one policy that contributes to the reform of competences, and not one that works for and one that works against?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e2979	The government is talking, the government has one policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e2984	Then I would like to ask about another part of the policy, although I do not necessarily include the assumption that the government has one policy that works for the same objectives, when we look at what has been proposed. A key element of the skills reform is funding. We have so few proposals for concrete financial instruments. The government has been very busy pointing to the responsibility of companies and employees themselves. We agree. They have a responsibility. But I also interpret it as opening up a larger share of self-payment. One of the proposals of the Markussen Committee, which has also been proposed by the Right, is that institutions should offer parts of their portfolio in return for payment by other actors. It means more self-payment for businesses and employees. I would like to clarify why we are skeptical about the starting point for the proposal to look into it. But the question is how the Right and Government have thought about funding schemes for their skills reform — about the contributions to both employers and employees to get this going.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e2991	There are several aspects we need to consider. I think it's important that we have more thoughts in our head at the same time. It is important that we get more students to complete their education in the normal time. At the same time, it is important that we combine the needs of the labour market and the provision made by educational institutions. Let me point to two programs that we've implemented. One is the sectoral programme, which has been implemented in agreement with the social partners. There the parties look at the needs of their industry. This is how programmes are developed in cooperation with, for example: The colleges. It's a program I have great faith in. The second is digital further training modules, which are also developed in cooperation between enterprises and educational institutions. This is the way we have to move forward – not just giving money to educational institutions, but developing it with companies and, for example, developing them. The colleges.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e3000	A reform of skills is a response to a change in society. It's a social reform. Many measures are needed. I should like to hear the Minister of Knowledge's thoughts on this: How much of the bill for continuing training does the Minister of Knowledge consider it reasonable that businesses and workers, and, if so, in what way?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e3005	It might also be interesting to hear the thoughts of the Workers' Party, but you might have spent the money on what we talked about in the debate instead, on school food. Spooky side: I believe that in developing this reform we need to look at a spice layer, where employees set up with time, where employers make investments in their employees, and where the state also contributes to the development of new training offers. The strategy we have now adopted, with both industry programmes and digital training modules, I believe is a strategy we should pursue further. For here we link the needs of companies to the development of new offers by educational institutions. I have little faith that we just place a few billions in a fund, and then it takes care of itself. We have to get to the connection, and we have given the counties an extended responsibility in this area. They can now take the space as well as a development of adult competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e3012	We have the Competence plus scheme, we have the Adult Education Association and other associations of interest, which again relate to Competence Norway. Councils of State have Councils of Competence Policy and, in addition, several measures in place. To me, it seems in many ways that the train has already left the platform, because of course there is a need for competence and change. In addition to all this, work will be carried out on a reform of skills where the Committee on Continuing Education, the Committee on Competences, the Employment Committee, the Committee on Living and Working Conditions and several other selections affect the field, policy and challenges. How do the Councils of State get at all coordinated and concluded in all this work in the reform of competences? Or does the reform of competences become just another temporary political project?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e3019	The reform of competence shall mean a difference. It shall mean a difference between employees, who shall be given the opportunity to build on or develop new competences. It will mean a difference for enterprises that we know today need more competence or a different kind of competence than they can access today. Then I fully agree with the representative that the train has left the platform. It is not that competence reform is something completely new. Fortunately, it has been working on lifelong learning and the development of offers over many years, but we see that the pace and pace of change in working life are now much higher than before. That is why we need to develop new policies. The Lifelong Management Committee is important, because we see that the Loan Fund is largely adapted to today's students, but not adapted to adults who may have children, who need to build on their skills to be able to work longer. Changes are needed in this field. That is why we have also been committed to getting a good knowledge base in different areas of the same reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e3028	When we talk about lifelong learning, it's been talking about it for decades, as I understand it. Given the question of what works, and what we need, we know that companies are looking for skills. They are not allowed to recruit and employ the skills they need. A tool in the toolbox is definitely the subject schools. Governments themselves point to the importance of vocational schools. Nevertheless, the Centre Party misses the commitment to development and more specialised school places from the government that the Centre Party itself has found space for in its alternative state budgets. What makes the Council of State demand knowledge of several measures that work when, among other things, knows that post-school places had worked? If the government had prioritised it, it would have made a difference.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e3038	We work very well with the technical schools. They have noticed a difference under new government, because there is now a stronger investment in the vocational schools, in good cooperation with the Stortinget. Let me point out one of the projects we are now implementing: industrial health and care programmes. The vocational schools – in cooperation with municipalities – are developing educational programmes. It may be linked to welfare technology or other education programmes that may not be developed if educational institutions are to think only of their own development. It is precisely the link between the needs of the labour market and the educational institutions that has been one of the main challenges. It is now very well documented by the Markussen Committee that the system is too rigid, and that there is too little link between the offer made by educational institutions and the need we see in the workplace. That's the connection we need to make. The programs we are now developing are just going to build that bridge.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e3047	40,000 persons added to the trade in goods are at risk of losing their job because of the change in the industry. This gets surprisingly little mention, although it's a very serious situation for those in it. The Minister of Labour's answer is she wants to renovate Nav. This reacts strongly to Trade and Office, and it is understandable. Trade and Office are calling for immediate action and expected a more proactive government. The manager of the Trade and Office, Trine Lise Sundnes, believes that there is a need for a reform of competence with government funding and development of skills in working time, and that educational institutions need to provide more flexible systems of continuing training. This is what the government parties are voting against today. What would the minister say to employees, not just in Trade and Office, who right now have a very uncertain job situation, and what is the government's response to them? Is that Nav?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e3052	Only this year we've spent 60 million. kr to develop new, modular, continuing training courses in digital competence. There are funds that have been made possible for enterprises to apply for in trade in goods, in cooperation with specialised schools, universities or colleges. So we now contribute quite significantly to the development of new offers. It is quite right for the representative to point out that the consequences of rapid technological development are seen in the trade in goods, and it underlines the need for the development of new offers. We have also received a letter of formal qualifications at work, which is a good opportunity for employees who either need a new letter, or who lack a letter of formal qualifications, to obtain a qualification that allows them to stand longer in the workplace.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e3057	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e3064	One of the most effective means of reducing the growing differences between people is to provide a fair and serious working life. Then we have to provide for a strong law and a work supervision that has enough capacity to defeat unprofessionalism, and not least we need more people to organize themselves and vows in flocks. In the future, we need to do even more, and we want working life to be a place to balance, not to reinforce, social and economic differences. Conversion, new industries, new technologies and new skills needs are not new in Norwegian working life. The new thing is that changes happen so much faster than before. Then we have to give people the opportunity to hang out with. People and businesses must be confident that the community will come forward when the need for new skills becomes apparent. That is why the Labour Party believes that a comprehensive skills reform to include more people in the job is one of the most important and largest investments Norway has to make over the next few years. Competence reform shall ensure that workers develop their skills in line with the requirements of the labour market, in order to prevent people from falling out of work. In addition, we need a strong commitment to competence to bring people who are currently out of work back to work. With this, we want to contribute to both of the two main objectives of the IA agreement – getting more people into work and preventing more people from falling out of work. Furthermore, we need to ensure that the large differences in continuing education and training are balanced. Today, a majority of academics are taking up formal competences during their professional life. These differences continue to flourish in the attractiveness of the professions, in the formation of wages and in some sectors of labour productivity. Therefore, the Labour Party believes that competence throughout life is also a Community matter. In the future, most people will switch jobs and occupations more times than today. Working life is becoming more and more technologically heavy, which can make our businesses more competitive, but at the same time makes greater demands on our skills. The reform of competence proposed by the Labour Party will help Norwegian workers to have the best skills in the future. We'll start now, for example. through a partner-driven competence fund and several customised study offers, and to organise the Loan Fund in order to provide support to adults who either need secondary or continuing education. We have no time to lose. If we want everyone in the big and fast transition we're going to undergo, we're going to have a real rush to get a wide range of skills reform going on for the world of work. That is the background to the proposal we are discussing here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e3081	Work life changes very quickly. There has to be a political responsibility for giving everyone the opportunity to learn all our lives, no matter who we are, no matter where we live – not least those with the least competence. Everyone's talking about automation, digitization, robotization, but no one knows exactly where this ends. But we know that the work tasks are going to change radically for most of us, and that we have to learn all of our lives. Even I'm a trained graphic writer. That profession does not exist today. The Labour Party's response to the challenges is a major and comprehensive competence reform based on the Norwegian model. High employment, welfare and tripartite cooperation have given us the advantage of many who envy us, and who equip us to deal with technological developments. Good managers and good parties understand that it is important to invest in employees. The government wants the company to pay. Unlike them, we ensure that ordinary workers are given the right to continuing training in the meeting with new needs in working and business life, and we provide government funding through our budgets. We will implement the reform in cooperation with the social partners. We set up a government, party-driven competence fund that invests in the people's competences. The most important resource we have is the employees. My good friend Nils Arne Egg got his statue at Lerkendal yesterday. He said that the best capital we have is human capital -- it has to be invested in every single day -- using the good idea of investing in top skills. And he showed results. We stimulate the education system to contribute more labour-related continuing education – not just universities and colleges, but all good forces have to do. Such an investment contributes to competitiveness and competitiveness, and such an investment contributes to the quality of our welfare society, in both kindergarten, school, elderly care and health. Not least in the case of vocational schools, the Workers' Party believes that higher vocational education will become even more important than today in order to meet the needs of society. We strengthen the vocational schools with places of study, and we propose measures to enable the vocational schools to further develop national modules for continuing education. In addition, we will review the funding of the vocational schools as a contribution to developing their role as providers of continuing education. If the Council of State has not received the Workers' Party's proposal for a reform of competence, he must read the seven proposals that lie here. I'm curious if the government will support this and ensure that we get real continuing training and a skills reform that invests in people's competences for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e3096	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox The President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. 11-31 is treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The cases are the second case of legal proceedings and concern legal decisions 85 to 105.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e3338	That applies to case No. 19th Law, 93th Law. Laws were thoroughly debated at first reading on Thursday of the previous week. The law prohibits the keeping of fur animals, which contravenes both commercial freedom and private property law. In addition, the legal compensation scheme is unclear. It is a short and well-known example of how policies should not be designed. On this basis, the Central Party has a note for the second reading and will suggest that the legislative decision is not accepted. I accept the proposal for a note that has been submitted, which states that the law decision is not accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e3345	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 11-31.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e3357	The size is then ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e3366	During the debate, Mr Andersen put forward two proposals on behalf of the Socialist Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to take the necessary steps to identify and retrieve all children who are Norwegian citizens from the war zones of Syria and Iraq to Norway.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to take the necessary steps to ensure good follow-up, rehabilitation and reintegration of returnees from Syria and Iraq.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e3390	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e3398	The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e3414	A total of 13 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-9, by Espen Barth Eide on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment proposal No 10, from Ole André Myhrvold on behalf of the Center Party the proposals No 11-13, by Lars Haltbrecken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 11-13, from the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government requests the submission of a national emission target to cut Norway’s emissions by 60 pst. by 2030 compared to 1990 emissions, and proposing to the Storting on a climate settlement that reaches this target through national emission cut during the spring of 2020.’.» Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘During 2020, the government is asked to bring a case to the UK on Norway’s fair share of the global emission reductions that need to be taken, as well as Norway’s fair contribution to global climate adaptation measures.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The Government is asked not to use the possibility of crediting forest and other land use emissions.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e3455	There is a vote on proposal No. Ten, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to postpone the processing and conclusion of an agreement on climate change with the EU until all the consequences related to Norwegian forestry and agriculture have been clarified.’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e3470	There is a vote on proposal No. 7, from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: «The government asks the government to include the species. 3 and species. [[Integrated national energy and climate plans]] [[Assessment of the integrated national energy and climate plans]] 13 in Norway’s inclusion of the management system regulation [[EU]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e3485	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1–6, 8 and 9, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked not to make use of the option to carry out the one-off transfer of approximately 6 million tonnes of allowances to the non-quota sector.’;» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to refrain from using bilateral agreements on the purchase of credits for the non-quota sector in EU countries as a substitute for emission reductions in Norway.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government requests the notification of an enhanced national emission target to be notified to the United Nations during the year.’; Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking that if they choose to enter into bilateral agreements on the purchase of credits for the non-quota sector in other EU countries, as a substitute for emission reductions in Norway, the government must demonstrate that these funds are used for new climate measures that actually cut emissions in those countries and ensure that double counting of emissions in those countries is avoided’. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The majority agrees to participate in a decision of the EEA Committee on the inclusion in the EEA Agreement of acts included in the joint fulfilment with the EU of the 2030 emission target and requires the government to provide for the reduction of Norway’s non-quota emissions through national measures and not through the use of the flexible mechanisms in the agreement and a plan to do so. The majority requests that the plan be promoted for Stortinget during the spring session 2020. ‘... Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to include the ETS sector in climate plans and reports’.» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that the targets and measures of a 10-year climate and energy plan up to 2030 are achieved with the 2050 target, so that decisions taken during the 10-year period remain for a longer period of time during which emissions are to decrease to zero.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with a case concerning the entire management system regulation [[EU]] Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e3540	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e3548	The central party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e3564	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e3581	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e3598	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e3615	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e3632	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e3649	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e3667	Three proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Torstein Tvedt Solberg on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 2 and 3, from Marit Knutsdatter Strand on behalf of the Center Party There is a vote on proposal No. Three, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to introduce a free fruit and green daily scheme for all primary school students.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e3694	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘During the autumn of 2019, the government is asked to present a plan for the gradual introduction of a school meal in primary school, with the following assumptions: a) The school owner shall design the offer in cooperation between home, students, school and municipality. b) Municipalities shall be compensated for their additional costs and shall be able to claim excess. c) Municipalities shall facilitate the inclusion of all pupils in the scheme.’;» The Greens have announced subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e3721	President! I voted wrong!
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e3726	That's okay, as the numbers are corrected to 88 votes against and 13 votes in favour of the proposal of the Central Party. The proposal has thus been rejected. There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit a plan during the autumn of 2019 for the gradual introduction of a free school meal in primary school. The school food system shall be financed from the budget of the Ministry of Health and Health as part of public health.» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e3745	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e3753	Behind the setting are the Right, Advance Party, Left and Christian People's Party. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e3771	All in all, seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-5, by Martin Henriksen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 6 and 7, from Martin Henriksen on behalf of the Workers' Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6 and 7 from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 6 sounds: «The government is asked to initiate an obligatory agreement with the social partners on the implementation of a wide range of labour competences reform.» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to propose a national, party-driven competence fund in order to enable the empowerment of individual workers.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e3804	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1–5, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to review the funding systems for colleges, universities and colleges and to assess adjustments to stimulate the development of several continuing education programmes.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide for a probationary system whereby on application, specialised schools may receive grants to develop national modules for continuing training in areas where the need for competence is high.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: «The government is asked to review the role and mandate of the Labour Council [[RSA]] Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government how the Loan Fund can be set up in order to provide better opportunities for training support for adults in need of secondary or continuing education in full-time or part-time. In this context, the Government is particularly encouraged to investigate: modification of the 50 pst requirement. studies in order to receive training support, so that training of a lesser extent can also provide for training aid; extension of the maximum eight-year study aid ceiling in specific cases; raising the age limit for reduced support from the current maximum age of 45 years; own schemes for scholarships, supplementary loans and adult reimbursement.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to implement a wide range of labour skills reform based on a framework that includes: promote proposals for a change in the legal and contractual framework to allow workers to develop the right to empower themselves through working life and to ensure that trustees are included in discussions on the development of their skills; establish a ‘long-term lifelong learning plan’, which is regularly revised; reform the education sector in order to adapt universities, colleges and specialised schools to lifelong learning, inter alia, through a closer link between education and working life and by facilitating more adapted training provision; review the system of real competence to enable workers to have documented competence so that they can take it further; establish a number of sectoral programmes for sectors particularly exposed to change and conversion, initially for the goods and transport industries, and in the long term extend to several industries.» The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e3873	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e3881	Behind the setting are the Right, Advance Party, Left and Christian People's Party. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e3899	Case No. 11–18 are the second time legal proceedings and concern legislative acts 85 to 92. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e3910	Case No. 19 is the second time the law is handled and applies to the Act 93. During the debate, the representative Geir Pollestad put forward a proposal on behalf of the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The legislative decision is not accepted. Note: The legislative proposal should be deposited.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e3931	President! I made a mistake!
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e3936	Then we're going to fix it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e3941	I also voted incorrectly!
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e3952	So let's do the voting again.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e3964	The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e3973	Case No. 20–31 are the second time legal proceedings and concern legal decisions 94 to 105. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e4041	Thus, today's map has been processed. Mr Haltbrecken has asked for the floor before the sitting was cancelled, in accordance with the second paragraph of Section 54 of the Rules of Procedure. The President agrees that the representative be given the floor, thus giving the floor to Mr Haltbrecken, who has a speaking time of up to 5 minutes, also under Section 54 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e4048	I would first like to thank you for having the opportunity to address this matter at the end of the meeting. Almost two years ago, I met Taibeh Abbasi for the first time in Trondheim. She was a happy girl who looked forward to completing high school and taking up studies. Her family has lived for many years under intense pressure after they were told that they were no longer in Norway. A little over a year ago, I met Taibeh again – Trondheim’s most beautiful Russian. She was in full swing with the exam period, but she was in a tumult, a disturbance no girl of 19 years had to feel. Saturday morning. Atefa Rezaie, and her three children, Yasin, Taibeh and Ehsan. They were taken to the airport at Røros, which is usually closed on Saturdays, and flew to Gardermoen and on to Istanbul. The police have said that it was an outrageous attack where no one was injured. In retrospect, it turns out that the attack was everything else an outrageous one. The police later admitted that the mother had already lost consciousness shortly after the apprehension. Nevertheless, they chose to proceed with the expulsion and to fly all the way to Istanbul. In Istanbul, it was decided that it was not medically sound to pass the mother on to Kabul. The mother’s birth was interrupted, and she is now back in Norway. The release of the three children has not been interrupted, and the latest messages I have received indicate that they will be flown by plane from Istanbul to Kabul already tonight. So we have a situation where three children, the youngest of 16 years, have been separated from their mother and sent to Kabul in Afghanistan, which has recently been ranked the world's most dangerous country. The two youngest children in this family have never been to Afghanistan, and the oldest brother of 22 years has not been there since he was a baby. Since the further transmission of the children to Kabul may be imminent, there is a urgent need to clarify the authorities’ practice of sending minors without caregivers. I would also like to point out that UNE's decision of 15 March 2019 on Ehsan, the youngest of the children, states that the family will return together, and the complainant will return with, besides mother, two adult siblings. This is no longer the case. The family is divided. I would therefore like to ask the Minister of Justice to explain which body has taken the formal decision to continue the expulsion of the minor child Ehsan, a child who has recognised health problems, and the other two children, Taibeh and Yasin Abbasi, to Afghanistan – when the mother, who is the main caregiver, is returned to Norway for health reasons. How is this decision to return without a caregiver, and is the best of the child taken into account in this situation, or will it be made? Summary: What is the practice of authorities in returning minors to Afghanistan if the responsible caregiver who is on the trip has to be returned to Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e4067	The President then gives the floor to the Council of State, Jøran Kallmyr, who also has a speaking time of up to 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e4072	Thank you for the floor, and thank you for the question. I want to start by saying that this is an ongoing action, and therefore I'm going to be a little careful to give too much detail about the action itself and the facts around it. In such actions, facts often tend to change along the way because you don't have the complete picture right now. I also want to say a little about the matter. So this was an Afghan family who stayed in Norway because they did not have a male network in their home country. Then the husband showed up, and they got their stay revoked. So this was years ago. Then there has been a process in which one has used the opportunity they have to complain about the decision. UNE has dealt with the complaint and has decided that the residence permit should be revoked. Then the case has ended in the court system. The General Court first dealt with the matter, then the Lawyer's Court dealt with the matter, and the case was also appealed to the Supreme Court of the family. The Supreme Court refused to consider the matter in substance, and thus the judgment of the Lawyers' Court is enforceable. This case has therefore been dealt with by administrative bodies in which the Ministry of Justice does not have an administrative authority. We cannot direct individual cases to either UDI or UNE, and of course there is no way to instruct the courts. The task of the Court of Justice here is precisely to examine the validity of the administrative and administrative decisions. So they have come to realize that it is. So the question is what happens then, and who makes the decisions as to when the return will be implemented. It is the Department of Foreign Affairs of the Police that takes decisions from the Directorate of Foreign Affairs and the Department of Foreign Affairs, which means that for a non-resident who does not have a legal residence in Norway, it will be carried out in accordance with Section 90 of the Foreign Affairs Act. Both UDI and UNE may instruct the police to postpone the implementation of their own decisions, and UNE may also instruct the police to postpone the implementation of a decision by the UDI in the UNE area where the decision requires the foreigner to leave the State. The reason for this is that the Ministry of Justice does not have the right to suspend the decision in this case. Paragraph 90 of the Foreign Affairs Act states that the Ministry may instruct the Directorate of Foreign Affairs and the Department of Foreign Affairs to postpone the implementation of a specific type of decision requiring the foreigner to leave the State, pending amendments to the law or regulation. Thus, the Ministry of Justice’s competence to grant deferred implementation of the return is limited to those cases where a group can be considered not to be returned, pending a concrete change to be made, in either regulation or law, and there are no such types of concrete legislative changes or regulatory changes on the road. Thus, the Ministry of Justice did not have the opportunity to provide instructions on this simple shipment. This is, as I said, an ongoing action, and therefore it is a bit difficult to provide much more detailed information about the actual return, because you do not have the complete picture. But what I have registered is that the police aliens' unit in this case had made sure that there were health professionals present during the shipment itself, on the basis of the information they provided in advance of the shipment.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e4087	The President will now open up the opportunity for the other party groups to have the word once every three minutes and then ask and the Council of State to have the word again for up to three minutes each.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e4092	As a result of this case, several discussions have arisen. Let me clarify the position of the Workers' Party. With regard to the part of today’s legislation relevant to this matter, a unanimous national meeting of the Workers’ Party has just adopted our overall immigration policy, and there are no proposals for changes in this part of the legislation. Then the Workers' Party, by individual representatives of the government parties, has been challenged on the renegotiation of the asylum settlement in the media. Let me remind the same representatives that we have a majority government in Norway. If the right-wing government wants to renegotiate the asylum agreement and is specific, we will, of course, talk to them if they make contact. The Labour Party has our policy ready. But now the situation is that the government disagrees with the government. This is not the first time and not the last time in terms of asylum and refugee policy. So to handle the return in this case: To the Council of State, I would like to say that I am responding. What emerges — the forced return of a unconscious mother out of Norway, who has to be returned to Norway while travelling, and where the family has to separate teams along the way — does not contribute to giving legitimacy or confidence in the management of the return policy and its importance in order to ensure a fair asylum policy, in order to return those who are not entitled to protection. Therefore, I ask the Council of State to be specific about how he will follow up the handling, whether he takes this seriously, and what the government will do.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e4103	I must first say that this is a matter that is thoroughly difficult, not to say impossible, for us in Stortinget to comment on. There's one thing we only know from the media. It is the government that is the executive, acting on behalf of the state in the situation that has now arisen. The majority has no choice but to assume that the government acts in line with the legislation and the final judgment available. It is assumed that the government exercises this responsibility and takes the necessary balances on an ongoing basis, including in the case of human considerations, which are always to be counted. The size does not deal with individual matters, but the Storting lays the framework. If the government finds that there is a need for political discussions about the framework within which the government works, the government is free to come to the Stortinget to discuss it. On the part of the Centre Party, we will be prepared to conduct such talks and address the issues without prejudging what will come out of any negotiations. But we must expect that the Prime Minister or the Council of State may take that initiative, and that has not happened at this time.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e4110	First, I would like to thank the representative, Mr Haltbrecken, for raising this issue. What is challenging is that these are really a lot of debates in one, that most people have very little information, and that it is also very difficult to demand clear answers when there is a matter that – as the Minister of Justice explained – is in the middle of an action. The left has long had an involvement with the long-term asylum children, and we got an important impact in the asylum agreement in 2015, which now has a lot more of the long-term children to become. The general rule is that children who have been here for more than four and a half years will stay in the country unless there are very special considerations. I record that there are many politicians who have been deeply involved in the Abbasi family case, and also in other heartbreaking issues, especially when it comes to children and young people who have turned their roots and who have a strong connection with the community in which they live. Among other things in Trondheim: the rapporteur, Rita Ottervik, has gone a long way. She challenged the councils of Ropstad and Grande to agree to talk if it is possible to get a new code. They both accepted that invitation. But I am now recording that the representative from Ottervik's own party is actually helping to make that invitation quite little topical. For the government's policy is based on a broad agreement here on the Storting, and if the Storting is dissatisfied with the legislation, it is also the Storing that needs to change the legislation. I still hope that it is possible to have conversations about this at Stortinget. We believe that this case shows that there is still a need for further decorations in relation to the long-term asylum children. This case also raises a number of questions regarding the practice of the Police Foreign Unit. Without having to debate this single matter too much, I think it's a principle perspective here that's about how we treat children when we have an adult caregiver who is obviously unable to care for the child. We have been informed that the caregiver was unconscious when transporting them, and I would like the Minister of Justice to have replied about sending out children when the caregiver is not really able to care for the children, is a practice that is in line with the legislation. Is that a proper practice? There has obviously had to be a new assessment when you leave your mother in Istanbul to return to Norway, while the children are to be forwarded to Kabul. Is it that we have a practice where a child, a minor, could risk being sent to Afghanistan without his caregiver? There are questions I would like answers from the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e4125	As big business politicians, we should not go into and deal with individual matters. But individual matters are an excellent opportunity to raise our eyes a little bit and see if we can discuss both principles, laws and regulations, and how they work according to their purpose. If you find out that they obviously work against their purpose, or they seem like they weren't supposed to work, we have a responsibility to do something about these laws and regulations. What does this case show us? It shows us a tension between the human interests and the immigration regulatory measures. There's got to be a scale on whether that's true. In some cases the pendulum goes one way, in other cases the pendulum can go the other way. We have to ask ourselves again whether it is right to return children without caregivers to a country that is considered the most dangerous in the world. I cannot give a complete answer to that either. But it's our responsibility to ask these questions, and it's also our responsibility to do something about it if the answers to these questions clearly become the character that we have to do something. The principle that children are separated from caregivers, and the information that emerges from this particular case, sounds violent, and one should almost wish it was not true that they were transporting out a person who was unconscious. Then it's easy to ask: is this true in several cases? Is this something that tends to be done? The Christian People's Party, on the same line as many other parties, reacted when this matter came up. In our channels in the government fraction, we've asked a question that we're going to take on, and it goes like this: Recently, the Abbasi family in Trondheim was forced to return to Afghanistan. The return was stopped for the mother's part, who got sick during the flight, but the children of 16, 20 and 22 were sent on. It is strongly reacted to the return of a 16-year-old without parents. It is also reacting to the conclusion that several expert reports have concluded that the 16-year-old in doubt is best placed to stay in Norway. This is, as I said, a case that puts immigration-regulating considerations to the test in the population. What is possible to do? It is our task as big business politicians in such matters to look at: What is possible to do?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e4141	I don't have a god. But last night I folded my hands and bent my head, filled with an intense shame. This is about a well-integrated family, where all three siblings were children when they came to Norway, and have been minor refugees for three to seven years. Two out of three siblings have never put their legs on Afghan soil before. They were born in Iran, where they have been discriminated against and barely had rights. The third, older brother, was two to three years when he left Afghanistan. This is not a return matter. It's the deportation of three siblings, including a child, to an unknown country with bombing and war-like conditions, where they don't have networks. The foreign subject has always been clear that the best thing for the child is that they are allowed to stay, but that so-called immigration-regulating considerations trump. Obviously, it's drumming everything. The security situation in Afghanistan is such that no one should be sent there, but Norway is at the top of Europe on emigration there. When one in addition finds forcing children there, it's not just against international obligations, it's freezing. Afghanistan is unstable and fatal. Freedom of expression and women's rights can be seen far behind. There is a country where there is extensive use of torture. That's why the world's most dangerous number was recently identified in the Global Peace Index, and therefore the UN High Commissioner for Refugees warns all countries against returning there. Kabul is one of the most dangerous provinces, with more than two million internally displaced. The Afghan authorities themselves say that they do not have the power to accept more rejected asylum seekers from other countries. They insist that you leave it alone. But so-called immigration policy considerations led the police to enter the home of the well-integrated Abbasi family in Trondheim by Saturday night. Mother and her three children were crying, desperation and howling forced into police cars after seven years in Norway. When I met the daughter in the family in 2017, she was open that she was from a few years back in time with fear and trauma, when the Norwegian police broke the route in her home and got in. And so now there was a fear. The mother of the family was unconscious from before the plane lighted on Røros, and on through the Gardermoen and all the way to Istanbul. And then she was returned to Norway. Flying a unconscious person all the way to Istanbul because there's been so much political prestige in getting this family out is in itself irresponsible. The question of which permit a minor to be sent to Kabul who is now without a caregiver is in place. But another question that this room has to ask is how could this happen initially. Among other things, it happens because the Stortinget in 2016, in some sort of collective panic, removed the reasonableness condition for returns. This is a political tragedy, and it must be settled in political order. The Council of State must start by stopping the transport of the Abbasi lakes in the evening.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e4158	In January 2018, the Stortinget examined a proposal from SV, the Environmental Party of the Greens and Reds to stop the transport of asylum seekers to Afghanistan. We got with us the Left and Christian People's Party on an external review of the legislation and practice of returning to Afghanistan, including whether Norway's legislation and exercise of authority are in line with our obligations and with international law. This was the same day that the Minister of Justice and Immigration Sylvi Listhaug had his first day in Stortinget in that role. She said, ‘I am very pleased that almost all the proposals are being voted down and that the comments are clear that they support the need for restrictive asylum policies and effective return policies.’ Unfortunately, she had both the Workers' Party and the Centre's party in this matter. The fate of the Abbasi family now shows the consequences of the policies of the bourgeois and the Workers' Party and the Central Party. It upsets people all over the country. I would quote from what is on the government's own website with travel information to Norwegian citizens. It says about Afghanistan: ‘The Ministry of Foreign Affairs advises against all journeys to or stays in the country.’ It goes on to say: ‘The risk of being hit by terrorist attacks and fighting is considerable in most places in Afghanistan.’ They also write: ‘There is a significant risk of suicide bombing and the use of road bombing.’ It is this country that people are now being forced to be deported to. I wonder how the Christian People's Party and the Left can stand behind such a policy. They protest to all the world while they're on this path. I want to ask the government to cut through and ensure that the Abbasi family stays in Norway. It's not safe in Afghanistan. It's crystal clear to the government in its own travel council. The family is related to Norway, and the three children are now separated from their mother, from their caregiver. In our view, deporting the family to Afghanistan is inhuman. Here, in our view, the government must intervene and take responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e4187	In the Right we think that we need a careful policy in the field of immigration and refugees – and we do. We're going to treat people the same way. It's an important principle. We must not treat people differently based on media lookups, and we must be consistent in the enforcement of our policies. But then, of course, we experience things that are very demanding, and this is such a case. The Christian People's Party mentions this with the pendulum, that one can experience being a witness that there is immigration-regulating care and sometimes abstinence on a humanitarian basis. But when people behave illegally in Norway, the police are forced to return. It is important that we trust the administration, that they follow this principle. This case has been tried in all possible courts – I would say – and all the possibilities in the Norwegian judiciary have been exhausted. The family had a leave time one year ago, and it's no wonder that there could be a forced release. So it's obviously heartbreaking to listen that people get sick along the way. At the same time, I must also give tribute to the administrator, who saw the possibility that it might happen. It was a game, and there were nurses with it. Can administrators do better than that? What should we do to get this done well? I think you've done it one way, in such a case as this. It turned out that the mother was ill, the doctor did his job and said she would be sent home again to Norway. Yes, we've done what we can, and then we'll follow through with the things we can do. I have great confidence in the government and the Minister of Justice, that they follow the case and keep us informed about how both the mother and the 16-year-old son, who are left in Afghanistan, are not part of it. Luckily he's got older siblings with him, so it's not really bad now. But of course we want to be informed about the outcome of this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e4198	I think this case shows how incredibly important it is that we get a voluntary return. We work a lot to get voluntary returns because we don't have such things like this. In this case, we have known for five years that there is no residence permit. Parents have a significant responsibility for the choices they make on behalf of their children. Therefore, many families choose to travel on a voluntary basis. That's what we want to do, but we can't always do it. Out of respect for those who actually follow Norwegian legislation and travel voluntarily, we must also send out those who do not travel voluntarily. In the past, I have received a wide range of information about all the work being done in preparing for such a forced release. There is considerable work to be done, and there is a great deal of concern and consideration in the decisions taken – as much care as possible in such a situation, because it will in any case feel terrible to those concerned. We've been told that there have also been health professionals, both nurses and doctors. But I think for the time being we only have the information we read in the media, and very often the story is a little bit different when we get all the facts on the table. I look forward to getting the whole picture in retrospect. If there's something we can learn from this, we're going to do it, but I trust that those who work with this to daily, have done the grips that are necessary to do this in the most correct way possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e4207	There is no doubt that this case shows the darkest side of Norwegian asylum policy. Ehsan Abbasi is 16 years old and legally a child. His mental health has been serious for a long time. Now he sits, along with his older siblings, in Istanbul, while his mother, his caregiver, has been sent back to Norway in a hurry. Norway does not send out minors if they do not have caregivers in their home country. The eighth paragraph of Section 90 of the Foreign Affairs Act provides that: ‘The compulsory dispatch of a single minor shall be made only to a family member, appointed representative or to another sound provision of care.’ It is the mother of the family who has care and parental responsibility for Ehsan. None of his siblings, who are 20 years old and 22 years old, have this responsibility, and it's a practice to keep their mother and children together in such a situation. The Foreign Affairs Department of the police has written in its recently published child-disciplinary counsellor: ‘Prevention and emigration are those of the asylum chain where the potential for both parents and children to apply traumatic stress is at their highest’.» Furthermore, it is explicitly stated that a ‘child-sensitive perspective’ should be provided for both when apprehended and throughout the journey out. Police officers are obliged to ensure that the rights of children are respected as long as they remain in the custody of the police. Diverging a minor from a mother who has acute health problems, and completing the return, the broadcast, to the world's most dangerous country, can in no way be said to be child-sensitive. We therefore ask again for the practice of the authorities in carrying out the best judgements of the child when such a situation arises during a waste management operation. In the decision of February 2018, the Foreign Affairs Department states that the long-term care of the mother will be improved when she is dispatched to Afghanistan. But what about when the mother is in Norway? And then this whole argument goes away. My question to the Minister of Justice is again: Is what is happening now, within the framework of the legislation – transporting lone minors without a caregiver?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e4230	This matter arouses feelings, and I understand that, but it is that the Foreign Affairs Unit of the police carries out quite a number of transports every year. In most of those transports, the transport is emotional, but not all of the transports are coming to the media. Most of the transport out of Norway by coercion is just because foreigners do not want to leave the kingdom voluntarily. Since 2013, 36 000 such shipments have been carried out. Questions have been asked about this with single minor asylum seekers, about how it can be done. As the representative Haltbrecken has just quoted the law, it is possible for someone under the age of 18 to be returned to their home country if you have known family members. Here it is that you are with two siblings in 22 years and 20 years. Of course, the police have to make a concrete assessment, and I assume that they have done so, as far as the child's needs are concerned. Some other representatives have called for the family to stay. That means that we have to make a legislative change. This Council of State has no opportunity to instruct the Foreign Affairs Department to allow this family to stay. This Council of State does not even have the opportunity to instruct the PU that they should not carry out the shipment – as a result of a law that this House has decreed. If you are to leave such things as this family, it means massive liberalisation of the asylum rules, which means that very many others also have the opportunity to stay. I therefore think it is wise that you now get a little more facts in the matter, before you draw far too great conclusions. We'll make sure that we get hold of it, and then we'll inform Storting properly about the matter when we have the whole picture.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-17.ana.ud326e4241	Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? I don't think so. - The meeting's been cancelled.
