ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e28	The called alternate of the Nordland County, Kjell-Idar Juvik, now takes the seat. From the meeting alternate representative of Akershus County, Sheida Sangtarash, there is an application for an exemption from meeting under the permission of the representative Nicholas Wilkinson from 22 May until further notice, due to illness. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. Other alternates of Akershus County, Torleif Hamre, are invited to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e56	Torleif Hamre is present and will take the seat. The request for welfare leave by the representative of Guri Melby is submitted from 22 May until further notice by the Group of the Left. That application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first and second alternate representatives of Oslo, Tina Shagufta Munir Kornmo and Hans Kristian Voldstad respectively, there are applications for exemptions from meeting in the Stortinge under the authority of the representative Guri Melby, for reasons of well-being. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The third alternate of Oslo, Naomi Ichihara Røkkum, is called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e88	Naomi Ichihara Smokem is present and will take the seat. The representative, Siri Gåsemyr Staalesen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e95	On behalf of Espen Barth Eide, Eirik Sivertsen, Stein Erik Lauvås, Masud Gharahkhani and myself I promote a proposal to stop the sale of the islands in the inner Oslofjord. We also ask that the matter be dealt with before the summer, as the process of selling the eyepieces at market prices is already underway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e100	The representative, Emilie Enger Mehl, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e105	On behalf of the representatives of Geir Inge Lien, Ole André Myhrvold, Liv Signe Navarsete, Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen, Sandra Borch and myself, I would like to promote a proposal to stop the centralization of the courts.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e110	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e118	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Kari Kjenaas Kjos. – Other proposals are not available, and Kari Kjønaas Kjos is considered unanimously elected president of the current meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e138	On Monday the Stortinge received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State Bent Höie, Nikolai Astrup and Ingvil Smines Tybring-Gjedde will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We start with the first main questions, from the representative of Ingvild Kjerkol.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e147	My question goes to Minister of Health Bent Höie. On Monday this week, all the rapporteurs in Trom's letter sent the Minister of Health because the ambulance service in their area is under strong pressure. Bilambulance bases are lowered while the mission volume goes up. Preparedness is weakened by cutting in the number of ambulances, and this occurs not only in the northern part of the country, but in several districts, in Trøndelag and in the western part of the country. In the case of ambulance services, this is about the security of people's everyday lives, and you know that you can get help from a service of high quality. For the Workers' Party, it is important that there should not be a residence address and urge hospital economy to decide whether or not to receive life-saving help. We believe that both the hospitals and the municipalities need more money, as well as strengthening the municipal medical service and the municipal emergency services are absolutely necessary, but there will never be an alternative to an emergency medical specialist service when the seconds count. In many municipalities it is the municipal fire and rescue service that is only on site when someone needs emergency health care. My question to the Council of State is: how does he ensure emergency medical preparedness in a way that prevents the local fire and rescue services from remaining under the responsibility of the health services?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e158	We have a good emergency medical response and a well-developed ambulance service in Norway, and we still need that. This is also very clear on the government platform, and it is also a clear guide for health regions. Fortunately, when we look at the development in response time and compare it with 2016, it is a positive development, and where development is better in districts than in densely built districts. There has been a significant increase in activity in the ambulance service, and there have also been several ambulances. When the government took over in 2013, there were 515 ambulances, and in 2017 there were 526. I have also introduced response time as a national quality indicator, in line with the Committee's recommendation, so that health regions are measured as they actually follow the quality objectives in this area. Then there will always be local discussions related to the location of ambulance stations and how this should be organised. What is my very clear approach to health businesses in these matters is that they should involve the municipalities in the work, because, as the representative is involved, it is the entire emergency medical chain that is crucial for the safety of the population. The services of the specialist health service and the municipality must then be well connected. We also see that in several cases this type of decision has been postponed, and one has started new processes in cases where hospitals have not been good enough to involve the municipalities in their plans and discussions. There is also a requirement from me that hospitals should involve municipalities in making changes to the emergency response.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e165	It doesn't help much that there are more ambulances nationally, if there's fewer where you live and get sick. In the West Sea, where I was recently, local firemen are encouraged to take emergency training to better manage medical emergencies, while at the same time the ambulance base was changed from having daily standby to being a day-care centre. More medical competence for the firefighters, I think we can agree on is good for everyone, but there is therefore a transfer of responsibility that local firefighters do not feel safe that they can carry and that does not replace the competence of the ambulancemen or the equipment they have in their cars. This happens on the government's watch. What does the Council of State think that the security of some municipalities will be a blackmail between different budgets, and that with less competence than that of the Stortinget has given individuals the right to, namely specialise in emergency medical assistance?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e170	As I said in my first answer, I don't accept that kind of service should be a blackmail game. That is why we have called for changes and developments in the prehospital service by the specialist health services to take place in close cooperation with the municipalities. This does not mean that a person always agrees, but the municipalities should be involved in this work. So, of course, it's hard to imagine that there will be more ambulances nationally, but less locally. When there are more ambulances nationally, there are also more ambulances locally, where people live. It is also the case that other types of cars used for the transport of patients are increasingly in place, releasing ambulance time for urgent tasks and increasing the safety of the population. Therefore, it is gratifying that when we start measuring response time as a national quality indicator, it shows that we have a right development, and development is better in districts than in cities.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e177	It opens for follow-up questions – first Ingvild Kjerkol.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e182	I follow the Council of State that there has been a change and development in the prehospital service. In fact, there has been a tearing professional development, and we can do a lot more before people get to hospitals now than we could just a short time ago. The previous call for proposals for prehospital services came in 2000. It's been a long time, it's almost 20 years. The last health minister Jonas Gahr Støre did before he left the staf stick to Bent Höie, was to put down the emergency committee. They delivered their NOU in 2015. It's not followed up by the government, just broken and divided. Last autumn, the majority of the population decided that we wanted a new big message about prehospital services. It negotiated the Christian People's Party away on Granavolden. Obviously, acute medicine wasn't important enough. What will the Council of State do to ensure an equally good prehospital service across the country, when he rejects this systematic work from the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e189	Firstly, there are a number of the recommendations of the NOU that have been followed up, among others. this with response time as a national quality indicator. So I've been most concerned with implementing the recommendations that have come, instead of making groceries. However, prehospital services become one of the main themes of a wholesale report that the Stortinget receives before Christmas, namely the next national health and hospital plan. It was an important breakthrough for the Christian People's Party in the Granavolden negotiations, so this will be a topic in the next big bang message about the national health and hospital plan. In this way, all the other assessments carried out in relation to the prehospital services are also validated and lead to the future development of this service, for it is, as the representative has said, a service that has experienced a very strong positive development – good quality, better response times, higher competence – and that development must continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e194	Ingvild Kjerkol – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e199	If the Council of State wants to avoid a blackmail, I think he must listen to the rapporteurs from Troms, who have now written letters. They remained responsible for local preparedness through fire and rescue, while the government is responsible for a police reform that shifts preparedness away from people, and a desperate hospital economy that also changes prehospital services. How do you take care of the overall preparedness of each community in Norway, when there is so much dissonance with regard to local responsibility, and in more and more cases it is felt that fire and rescue are the first people on the scene in the event of emergency medical incidents?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e205	I think the representative has to deal with the fact that we have introduced response time as a national quality indicator, and that the national image is different from the one the representative is trying to make. Response times have improved, and there has been a better development in districts than in cities. I am also very concerned that the municipalities now contribute very positively to increasing the preparedness of their communities, in addition to what the specialist health service is responsible for. Among other things, several have established their own response teams. There is a positive development that helps to secure the population. It shall not replace the responsibilities of the specialist health service, but in addition. This is why we make national quality requirements for the response teams in municipalities, so that there are some standards to deal with that contribute to increasing the safety of the population. Some of the municipalities that have done so experience that it contributes to more stable staffing and increased recruitment to municipal health and care services, and that is positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e210	Lene Vågslid – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e215	My question goes to the Minister of Emergency. As Ingvild Kjerkol refers to in his main question, there is a task shift from the health service to the fire and rescue service. The Labour Party believes that there is a need for a fundamental clarification of the roles, duties and responsibilities of the Fire and Rescue Service in the future. Twice the Workers' Party has made a proposal for a separate report on fire and rescue. It won't work in the right direction. So my question to the Minister of Emergency Response in this context is, how will she actually follow up the Granavolden platform, which says that the government will review the preparedness capacity of the municipalities, including the role distribution between the fire department, the police and the health services?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e223	The fire and rescue service is an important and highly sought-after resource, which is present where people live, and it provides rapid assistance when people need help, regardless of when a fire or other accident occurs in the daytime. The Fire and Rescue Service is a municipal responsibility, and the State governs the municipalities through laws and regulations. The duties of the fire and rescue services are governed by the Fire and Explosion Protection Act and the municipalities give authority to assign other duties to the fire service, as long as this does not impair the statutory duties of the fire service. Therefore, the municipalities themselves are assessing the other tasks they have to perform. No changes have been made to the statutory tasks since 2002. There are considerable differences between municipalities in terms of preparedness. Some municipalities have expressed their desire for more tasks for the fire and rescue service because they believe that it provides an emergency benefit in the community. [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e231	Lene Vågslid – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e235	I register that the Council of State does not respond to what I am asking for. The question was how the Council of State will follow up the point in the Granavolden platform where it says that one should go through the preparedness capacity of the municipalities, including the role distribution between the fire department, police and health services. It is a fact that the task portfolio of the fire and rescue service has changed considerably in the last ten years. We've asked for a crash message twice. That's not what the government wants. Then the question is, what does the government do with the problem? How will the Minister of Emergency in Norway follow up on his own government statement at this point?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e240	I am pleased that the representative is keen in this area. I am also, as a completely new Minister of Social Security. I have to finish my answer, which I didn't get last, because I didn't get to the point. I'm sorry I took a long time. Some municipalities believe that providing more tasks to the fire service in the community is of emergency benefit, while other municipalities have expressed that they are critical of the financial burden, such as: may result in the cooling water of a turn in the task portfolio. To the representative's very specific questions, I would like to engage in dialogue with both the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Immigration and the Minister of Health, in examining the preparedness capacity of the municipalities, including the division of roles, such as the representative's demand, between the fire and rescue services, the police and the health services. This will be done in the context of the forthcoming Communication to the European Council on Social Security, which we are planning to present in 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e249	Kjersti Top – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e254	My follow-up question goes to Minister of Health Höie. It is worrying that we have a health minister who does not take care of the situation, who allows health care professionals to run the ambulance service so that the response time is not followed up in any of our counties, who does not respond when health care agencies want to shut down food departments – which gives women three to four hours of travel at birth – who accept a centralisation of medical services and longer travel routes to emergency facilities, and who are behind a policy that makes it more unsafe to live in the districts when accidents are out. Several and more parties are with the Centre Party that health care must be given priority, and that there is a need for legislation on the response time for ambulances, as is currently the law on the response time for fire services. The question is whether the Minister of Health thinks it is more important to fear buildings than human beings, or will the Minister of Health legislate for ambulance response time so that people can have security to get health care when they need it?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e263	All the premises in the representative's question were wrong, so I have to start with that. Firstly, I take responsibility for preparedness and response time very seriously. I am therefore pleased that there have been more and not fewer ambulances while I have been a health minister. I am pleased that the response time has declined and not increased while I have been Minister of Health, and that it has decreased more in the districts than in the cities, which also indicates that we are prioritizing precisely those areas that have large distances. Nor is it true that I am not responsible for the discussion on food services, emergency services and hospital structures in Norway. Unlike my predecessors, I have presented a national health and hospital plan that has drawn the hospital map for Norway. That means that people don't wake up to read, for example. in Narvik, that there are plans to lay down their hospital. We're going to have a hospital in Narvik, and we're going to build a new hospital in Narvik. The same applies to Lofoten and very many other places where they lived continuously with this threat under the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e270	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e275	According to the principle of responsibility in the Health Protection Act, the person responsible for a service is also responsible for the planned crisis and war for those services. The Minister of Health is then responsible for ensuring that Norway is banned if we come in difficult situations. Jon Mathisen, who is the head of the Acute Medical Clinic at the University Hospital in North Norway, recently said: "This is the situation today, we have no medical preparedness for war." It is a rather prudent announcement that should get the alarm to go to the Stortinget, but of course also to the government. He points out that there is hardly any training in Norwegian hospitals and that there is no equipment to train in situations of crisis and war. My question is: Is it true that there is hardly any training or equipment for crisis and war in Norwegian hospitals?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e285	That's not true. Norway has a model where ordinary health services are also health services in a crisis and war situation. This model became, among other things, training in connection with the joint venture. The experience from there is some of the things that are summarised in these days. My impression is that the international participants in that training were actually impressed by the way we handled this, although, of course, through such a training, the relationship you can always find is even better. An overall agreement has now been reached between the health services and the defence sector, which will also ensure better predictability and planning, including: related to training, responsibilities and equipment — a type of agreement that you have not previously had and that will make us even better prepared for such situations.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e292	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e297	It is very special that the Minister of Health claims that we have a model where we are forbidden to do this, while those who are working on this say that we have no medical preparedness for war in Norway. Here, there's a big difference between what you see in the perspective of the government, and what's real on the floor, so that's the basis for the Storting to go further into this matter. My next question goes to the Minister of Social Security. There are very alarming messages we have received from the Civil Defense Department, because in the past, a field hospital had deployed around the country in case of problematic situations. The situation today is more international than just a few years ago. My question to the Minister for Social Security, who is responsible for, among other things. the total defence: Is it true that the field hospitals around the country have now either expired or have been removed, and that there is not a single field hospital in Norway today?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e304	The task of civil protection is to plan and implement measures for the protection of the civilian population, the environment and material values. It is also a strengthening resource linked to the emergency and emergency seats in a wide range of events. As indicated in the Ministry of Justice and Defence's budget for 2019, civil protection has challenges related to the aftermath on the material side. It has therefore been invested large, 43.5 million. NOK in new equipment in the period 2014-2018, and I refer to the fact that, on a proposal from the government, the Storting granted a further SEK 13.3 million. kr to new equipment in 2019. The DSB has the task of ensuring that the Civil Protection Agency has operational and administrative capacity to resolve its primary tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e313	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e318	My question goes to the Minister of Emergency. The government has been heading towards a serious centralisation of the police through the police reform. New SSB figures show that almost half of the country's municipalities have had fewer police officers in the last three years, and in 180 municipalities it is not a single policeman or politician. This has had disastrous consequences for national preparedness. The response time to the police is increasing, which is contrary to all the government's promises of visibility, presence and availability. The police have got a higher threshold to move out, and when the police don't get there, it's more and more often the fire department that's first on site. In 2018, the fire department first came to the scene in case of serious incidents in over half of all calls, and even the ambulances come first much more often than the police. In the case of serious and dangerous situations involving ongoing life-threatening violence, the fire service shall consider whether to intervene, even if it is concerned, for example. an ongoing knee attack and an unbridled situation. But the fire department doesn't have police training – this isn't their job. Nevertheless, they meet the expectations of all teams that they will do the police's tasks when the police do not reach them. Now, when we see an ever-increasing tendency for local fire services to come first to situations where the police should have been, and where the police are responsible, I will ask the Council of State: who is responsible if the fire service does not intervene in a life-threatening situation? And who is responsible if the fire department intervenes, and it goes wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e331	Each State Council is responsible for social security in its own sector. But it is a significant point that as Minister of Social Security, I am responsible both for seeing the total preparedness as a whole and for following up on individual issues. I must also point out to the representative that the police department is under the Minister of Justice, not under the Minister of Social Security. In the case of the fire and rescue services, they are under municipal responsibility. It is therefore up to the municipalities themselves to assess the other tasks they have been able to perform, and no changes have been made to the statutory tasks since 2002. I will, as I mentioned in the answer to the previous question, work to go through the preparedness capacity of the municipalities, and I will do this in the context of the presentation of the big message on social security in 2020. But I refer the representative's questions about the near-police reform to the current Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e340	In particular, I believe that a Minister for Social Security and Security cannot respond to clarifications about responsibilities between the local municipal fire department and the police, which are the responsibility of the Minister of Justice. I thought the point of having your own emergency minister was that you should see the whole thing. Firefighters and ambulance workers are put under extreme pressure when they have to consider intervening in situations that can be fatal, and it can be about saving lives by risking one's own. In fact, the police first came to the scene in only 15 pst. of all calls in 2018. This is as simple as that when the police don't show up, fire and ambulance people must increasingly go into situations where they absolutely shouldn't be, and I think the Minister of Emergency Service should be able to answer the following questions: Is it acceptable for the Council of State that the police are on site only in 15 p.m. first. of the riots? And does the Council of State think it's okay that the fire department should also be the police in the districts?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e347	I have to mention it again: I have answered the question. The Minister for Social Security is responsible for overall preparedness, but each State Council is responsible for social security in its own sector. It is therefore not difficult at all: the fire and rescue service is a municipal responsibility, and it is the municipality itself that assesses what other tasks these then have the capacity to perform. As a private remark, I have to say that I can be quite happy that someone is coming, that the fire and rescue services are the first to arrive at the accident site. They're well prepared, and they're well trained on their assignments.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e354	There will be follow-up questions – first Geir Inge Lien.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e359	When the police are not in place, the fire and rescue services must make assessments of whether or not they should enter the police station. Firefighters are not sure if they receive the information they need at any given time. Is there more than one perpetrator? Does the perp really have only one knife? Is the crew sure that they are being sent in? There are questions a fireman has to ask himself. Firefighters are not supposed to be required to make police assessments. At the same time as these assessments, there will always be expectations from both the police and the public that they will avert the situation. Does the Minister think it is a sustainable situation that firemen have to make such demanding assessments that the police should actually make?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e367	I thank you for the question from the representative. That's all possible reason to repeat my answer. Once again, I want to review the preparedness capacity of the municipalities, including the role-sharing between the fire and rescue services, the police and the health services. I also want to engage in dialogue with the Minister of Justice and Immigration and the Minister of Health and Care in this work. This will be done in the context of the work we are now working on, and the forthcoming Social Security Communication, presented in 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e374	Bengt Fasterøne – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e379	This is not about law and role-sharing, it is about the absence of operational preparedness from the police and people's expectation of security where they live. And it's worth noting that it's not just in pig-grown strips. The daily lives of municipal fire and rescue crews have turned their heads after the police, who are to have operational management, are largely absent when serious incidents occur. I could refer to several specific events, but I choose to describe this in general: the alarm goes, the emergency situations go out, the fire and rescue teams are first on site, the police can at the earliest be at the damage and scene one hour after the alarm has passed. The situation is unclear and critical, and there is a danger that innocent people may be harmed or that lives may be lost. I have heard what the Minister of Emergency Response has said before, but what expectations does the Council of State have as a Minister of Preparedness as to what the municipal fire and rescue teams are going to do in such a situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e388	I expect the fire and rescue department to do its job. And I have to mention once again that the tasks of the fire and rescue department are below the municipality, it is a municipal responsibility, and it is the municipalities that assess what tasks they have the capacity to perform. I must also – once again – mention that these questions should be addressed to the Minister for Justice and Immigration and not to the Minister for Social Security.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e395	Lene Vågslid – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e400	If not, the Minister of Emergency shall speak the fire and rescue services' case, then I will fool who shall do it. I'm quite surprised by the response the emergency minister gave to Stortinget today. Is it really the case that we have to wait until 2020 before the Minister for Social Security and Emergency Response will actually engage in matters of local social security, which are about preparedness? It's going to be in dialogue with the Minister of Justice, I expect that when a worker works in the same department, but what will the Minister of Emergency actually do now with the situation being described by several parties here now? What kind of liability portfolio does the Council of State have that makes it better to answer the questions that come here, and not just shift responsibility to municipalities and everyone else?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e407	Again: I thank you for the interest and eagerness to make Norway safer. So do I. Of course, I work every day to point out and point out to other government councils, but the fire and rescue services and the police are not under my responsibility. Fire and rescue services are a municipal responsibility. The police are the Minister of Justice's responsibility. Of course, we're working all the time to increase preparedness in Norway, and we've done that since we took power in 2013. And I want to work on this to do a good job and to present a good big message about social security, along with the Minister of Defence, in 2020. We want to see this as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e412	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e417	My question goes to the Minister of Health. In the year that has passed, we have first seen apostatism and then a birth rebellion. Women throughout the country, doctors and midwives all point to the same thing: we do not have the maternity care we expect and deserve in Norway. At Oslo University Hospital, the Enterprise Council of the European Union today warns that child nurses and midwives describe the situation in the major food departments, such as Ullevål, as irresponsible. It is serious when professionals themselves say that they are far from filling the guidelines in the quality regulations for births. Food departments throughout the country have strong demands for tightening up, and crews are weakened. In Bergen, the situation has been so precarious that employees have notified it both to the Health Inspectorate and to the Labour Inspectorate. At St. Olav’s hospital in Trondheim, there are women who are pregnant in the hall after seven beatings were laid down last autumn. So all this is before the summer season comes in – and more children are still born in the summer. It's not the first time it's news that the maternity wards are understaffed in the summer. The same news we saw last year. This is familiar knowledge. We now also see cases where midwives move away because of the work pressure. In Bergen there are not enough midwives employed until the summer. Will the Council of State do anything to ensure a basic crew to ensure that we are able to follow the country's own guidelines? And what action does the Council of State plan to take now before the summer season starts too fully?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e430	In recent years, I have just called for health regions to plan the summer resolution of food departments in a better way than has been done in the past. It's also followed up. The return message that came after that is that they have become better at planning the holiday settlement and thus ensure that a good and safe offer is made during the summer as well. Fortunately, the big food peaks that we saw in the summer before have evened out a little bit more. Those who work in the maternity wards also want to have their summer vacation in the summer. That means that one has to plan for it, and also plan in such a way that one avoids excessive use of temporary workers, temporary workers, which we know also present quality challenges. This means, among other things: that some people choose to close their maternity wards and collect their births in one place, just to have a crew with the permanent staff, who know each other, who are used to working together and working in the same system. It provides safer food for women. Then we have – fortunately – managed to achieve a formidable increase in the number of midwives in the municipalities. It also provides safer planning and follow-up before and after birth. We have also ensured that we need a decentralised food supply in Norway. If it is that employees in a maternity ward are alerting that conditions are irresponsible, the management of the individual hospitals as well as the supervisory authorities are being taken seriously and it must be followed up immediately. With regard to the situation in Bergen, employees have previously notified the same thing. As a result, the County went through all the conditions. It was not found that the offer was irresponsible. On the contrary – it was concluded that it was sound. But if it's notified again, I'm assuming there's going to be a new review.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e441	I believe in listening to those who can do this. In this case, they're the ones who can, the ones who work in these maternity wards. You can and you should plan for staffing in the summer. It's a little bit harder to plan for the number of births, and we still see that there's an increase in the number of births in the summer. That's why they're so worried about the message we're getting from both Bergen and Oslo, where you're worried about the crew there. The council stated that some departments are not only struggling with low staffing, but they are closing the departments for the summer. We see examples of this being true of hundreds of women in Harstad and Narvik, hundreds in Gjøvik, 74 women in Mo in Rana, Brønnøysund and Sandnessjøen. We also see that parallel to that, the follow-up service is weakened, something that both the Earth’s Mother’s Association and the Earth’s Mother’s Association are noticing. Does the Council of State agree that this is a weakening of the offer, and what action will the Council of State now take to improve the follow-up service in meeting the summer-bound departments?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e453	The most important thing we've done is to get a formidable increase in the number of midwives in the municipalities, with over 46.2 pst. since I became Minister of Health. And since, unfortunately, there have also been fewer births in the same period, we have not only had a significant increase in the number of midwives, but the capacity of each midwife has also increased. It could also contribute to a better follow-up service. There has been a voice of concern from the Federation of Midwives to me about a slight change that has been made at a rate associated with the follow-up service, and we take it most seriously. We have asked for feedback from the health regions on whether it has turned off negative, and in case it has, it is going to be addressed. I believe that having some summer-related food departments is just a measure to ensure the quality of the alternatives. As long as we accept that those who work in the maternity ward must be allowed to take a summer vacation, there would be a large amount of hired temporary workers and short-term employees, and it would have gone beyond quality. It's much better to do this planned, with a crew that's known on site.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e460	There will be follow-up questions – first Kari Elisabeth Kaski.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e465	The last numbers we're sitting on show that 20 pst. by the municipalities do not follow the guidelines when it comes to accompanying services, so it is important that the Council of State continues to follow up. I record that there are several midwives employed, but it does not automatically result in improved follow-up services, so it is important that they continue to be closely followed up by the department. The guidelines for maternity care also define that women in active birth should have one-to-one follow-up from midwifery. We know that it gives safer births, and that it becomes a more manageable birth experience for the woman. Health authorities have surveyed the country's food institutions, but there are very few institutions that even record whether midwives provide one-to-one follow-up to women. Can the Council of State respond to how this is being followed up today and whether it is being followed up in line with the guidelines? How will the Council of States follow this up further, so that it is in line with the guidelines?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e474	Already in 2017, I asked health regions to document deviations from the recommendation that a midwife be present in the active phase of birth. In 2018 they were asked to provide a joint report on 3rd tertial 2018 on this matter. I believe that the feedback from health regions shows that they documented these deviations differently. That makes it difficult for us to compare the numbers, and that's why I asked them to do this in such a way that we have comparable numbers that we can follow over time, so that we have the opportunity to follow that they actually contribute to this quality requirement being followed up. It is also part of the story — and this is important to be told — that food supply in Norway has become safer. There are fewer injuries, and those who give birth in our hospitals are more satisfied with the food supply now than they were in 2011.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e481	Kari Elisabeth Kaski – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e486	Governments have also previously referred to that study, but there are also other concerns. In a supervisory case at the Hospital in Vestfold from October to November 2018, the Health Inspectorate concluded that several offences had been committed. Among other things, they concluded that there was no proper observation of the mother and the child, and that there was no exit call. I have previously referred to the employees of the Haukeland Hospital, who have sent a message of concern to the County and Labour Inspectorate. Let me also remind you that today, the enterprise elected by Oslo University Hospital is going out and describing the situation in the major food departments in the Oslo area as irresponsible. These are very serious words. A nationwide surveillance of maternity care has not been carried out in Norway since 2004. My last question is whether the Council of State will take the initiative to get an overview of the state of the country’s food departments.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e493	We have a very good birth register in Norway, with many quality indicators. So we have a good overview in Norway of the quality of food supply. As I said, the quality indicators show that the quality of food supply – the safety of mother and child – has improved, and that is good. This does not mean that there can be no challenges in individual hospitals and individual departments to be addressed. The term ‘indefensible’ is very strong in healthcare, and if something is warned as unwarrantable, it means that management has to consider in concrete terms whether to close the offer, because there should not be unwarranted offers in healthcare. So I expect that if you have notified that a service is irresponsible, it is taken seriously by the management, because it is a strong concept to use in the Norwegian healthcare system. This is an important area, but fortunately, the offer has improved, and those who give birth are more satisfied now than before.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e500	Elise Björnebeck-Waaagen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e505	The main question was about the follow-up service, but I want to follow it up. The accompanying service, the possibility of being accompanied by a midwife or qualified maternity care, is essential for women who have a long journey. The Ministry of Health and Health has transferred the funding from Helfo to the regional health companies, and the amendments entered into force on 1 October 2018. But now we see that the follow-up service, the opportunity to be accompanied by a midwife, is being laid down in several places. Soon, an entire pregnancy has passed since chaos began. Then I wonder when we can expect the Council of State to have control of the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e510	The responsibility for the transfer of accompanying services from public health to health regions has to be almost borne by the Workers' Party, because it was those who carried it out in 2010. We've made a small adjustment that includes an amount of 1 million. kr, relating to one tariff paid to midwives. I have taken the letter I received from the Federation of Midwives about this, in the greatest seriousness and have asked the health regions to report back to me whether it has had negative consequences for the follow-up service. Those who have long travel time – i.e. travel time over 90 minutes – are to be accompanied by a midwife to the food supply. It is clear that when we have had a sharp increase in the number of midwives, where in 2013 we had 279 midwives in Kommune-Norge, and by the end of 2017, we had 408, and when we have now facilitated the recruitment of more – also more in 2018 – we are in a completely different situation with a view to providing a better food service.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e515	Elise Björnebeck-Waaagen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e521	It is mildly said a little special to point six years back in time when we now see the consequences and a serious situation for pregnant women with a long journey. We have heard stories about midwives who extend longer than we can expect, midwives who have not been paid and who sleep with the phone at the night table, even if they are not on duty. This is a fundamental security for pregnant women and their newborns. I am aware that the Council of State has sent a letter, to which he himself refers, to the health care companies about the situation in the follow-up service. But this isn't a new situation. This occurred with the conversion in October. Then I wonder: Are there any clear signals from the Council of State, or is it slow mail?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e530	The conversion of the accompanying service took place in 2010. Then it became a responsibility for the health regions. What it's about now is a tariff related to intervention in the follow-up service. This I'm going to follow up. It is also, with all due respect, so that I think the Workers' Party takes a little high and dark-position in a matter in which they left us a situation with a severe midwife deficiency in the municipalities. The Workers' Party's own answer to this was to remove the legal requirement that municipalities have a midwife. We have reintroduced the requirement that municipalities have a midwife, the Workers' Party voted against. And not least, we have had a historically strong commitment to midwives in the municipalities, which means that pregnant women and those who have been born in Norway get a completely different follow-up in the municipalities now. I'm not saying that everything is good, it's going to get better and better, but I think the Workers' Party should hack down a couple of heels in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e537	Elise Björnebeck-Waaagen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e542	I find it inappropriate to stand and point my finger when pregnant women now feel that they do not get the help they need when they have a long journey. We can agree that it is necessary to increase the midwife's capacity outside the municipalities, but unfortunately that does not mean that the follow-up service is getting better. This is precisely about the conversion of tariffs — which means that women do not receive the accompanying service they require. Instead of pointing to the Workers' Party, I wonder what the responsible State Council intends to do to ensure women this necessary security.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e551	As I have said before, women who have more than 90 minutes of travel to the food service should have a good follow-up service. The prerequisite for success is better now than before. I will also check the status of the accompanying service, if it has actually been weakened. If it's weakened, it's not acceptable. In that case, health regions will have a clear obligation to ensure that they follow up the mission they have to provide an accompanying service. There should be no doubt about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e556	Kjersti Top – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e561	For the last three years, more than a thousand children were born outside hospitals, because Mother did not arrive. Born is born in a car, in a bath home or in an ambulance on a stretcher. This is done not only in long-distance districts, but also in cities because of blasted capacity at the large women's clinics, such as Oslo, Bergen and Trondheim. Women at birth are told to wait longer at home, they hear about the lack of free birth beds, they are told that they will be sent home if they are not in active birth when they arrive, and some are even denied ambulances, and it ends with home birth for that reason. We know that such unplanned births outside the institution give rise to an increased risk of serious complications. My question is whether the Minister of Health has an answer to women who every year involuntarily have to be born during transport or home without a midwife, or whether he will be thought of as the Minister of Health as thinking that this is an insecurity that Norwegian women only have to find themselves in.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e570	My answer to that is that of course we want to avoid as many unplanned births as possible outside the hospital. That's why I'm glad we haven't had any increase in this area either. It's been stable. Of course, that's not good enough. Of course, our goal is also to reduce the number. I hope I am remembered as the Minister of Health who got the strong commitment to the midwife services that has now taken place, which will help make it even safer in one of the safest countries in the world to be a mother – both being pregnant, being born, being followed. I am very proud that we have now committed to a doubling of the number of midwives in the municipalities as long as I have been a health minister. It's going to mean a significant quality difference related to being pregnant, born and followed-up, which I'm proud of.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e577	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e582	The guerrilla grows every day that goes. They are now over 85 000 people on Facebook and have spread from North-Møre to Helgeland and to the whole of Norway. In Northern Ireland, women are now at risk of travel for up to three hours if the Kristiansund maternity ward is laid down. These women have the research on their side. According to the obstetrician and researcher Hilde Engjom, it is not primarily the size of the department that determines how it goes with mother and child, but the distance. In the case of unplanned births outside the institution, there is three times the risk of the child dying. These are hard facts. It should be a wake-up call for politicians from all parties. Last week, however, when we discussed proposals in the Grand Duchy that could prevent the closure of the Kristiansund maternity ward, the government parties voted against these proposals. The next day, the board of Health Moor and Romesdal decided to postpone the closure of the maternity ward in the city. I think that's what we're primarily going to give the bow guerrilla for, which won the first battle, but the uncertainty is still very great. Both the Nordmøre population and hospital staff deserve a clear answer to what will happen to the maternity ward in the future, and Bent Höie has the political responsibility for health care. I would therefore ask for a clear response from the Council of State on whether this department will be closed in one year, two years, or whether it will continue to live until a new hospital is ready, which is the clear demand of those who are committed to the supply of food in the North Moravia.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e593	As I said when we had this matter up in Stortinget, I naturally follow all the assessments made, and the decisions taken by the Boards of Hospitals-Norway, and have the opportunity to intervene in essential matters if I believe that the conclusions drawn are incorrect. Make a change such as: setting up a maternity ward, it is a significant matter that I will always assess whether I should intervene. Now the board of Health Møre and Romesdal came to the conclusion that they were not to leave the department in August of this year, as they had originally decided. I think that is a wise decision. The new constituent director of Health More and Romsdal said that he needed more time to make a schedule, among other things. due to the fact that there is now a tendering process linked to the construction of the new hospital. We do not now have a specific date for the construction start of the new hospital. It is also a work, to which the board has joined, which is about to create a more comprehensive plan for the work towards the new hospital. It must also be possible for the new management to work with. I think it would be very unwise if I – without having the basis that is now being created with the employees, the trusted ones, those who live in the health region of More and Romesdal – were to set a date now, almost by sticking their finger in the air. That would be very unwise. Now I think it is wise to look at the decisions and assessments to be made by the management, the board of directors and the trustees in Health More and Romesdal. Then, of course, I'm going to assess whether the decisions they make are good and right and in line with national health policy. If they're not, I have the opportunity to intervene.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e603	The requirement is not to put your finger in the air exactly, but to get a guarantee that the department will not be laid down until a new hospital is ready. What has now been done is described as a fatigue tactic on the part of the board, where they may hope that the resistance will lie down if you just push the defeat month by month – that you think the resistance will lie down. The reverse is likely to happen, but this will only lead to further concern, further concern and further mobilisation to ensure that the department continues until a new hospital is ready. This is a question of principle which you can decide on, whether you think it is right or not that Health Møre and Romsdal are waiting to lay down the department in Kristiansund until a new hospital is ready. That's what people want an answer to. I believe that Höie should also be able to give a clear answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e612	No, it's not a question of principle, it's a question of safety and quality for the inhabitants and the natives of the North Moravia and in the valley of Rome. Therefore, this will depend on your ability to ensure safe and good staffing of the two maternity wards during the period leading to the completion of a new hospital. It is about the type of follow-up service established by a company, the type of offer it has in each municipality, the preparedness it has. It is also about the relationship with the other departments, both hospitals, that are affected by this. It is the kind of question that I think the representative makes sense to let people who work there, who are close to it, who have professional competence, and do not make this a general political principle issue, which could lead to a worse offer for the inhabitants of this region – until the new hospital is completed – than what you expect otherwise in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e619	Bears Moxnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e624	It's not the professionals who want to shut down the maternity ward. This is the government that will, for economic reasons, as we see elsewhere in the country, that it is the bottom line that governs hospitals, rather than that it is primarily the health service for patients. I record that the Council of State does not take on board the research that is quite unambiguous, namely that the travel distance to the food institution has a lot to say, and that the risk of the child dying is three times higher at birth outside the institution than in the institution, and that it is far heavier than the size of the food department. That's why people don't want more so-called blue light babies, but they want to be born in an institution, in a safe environment with professionals, rather than the reverse, which is the consequence if you put down more food departments. It's just sad to say that the Council of State is not able to answer this question, which is crucial for people in the North Sea, namely that you want a guarantee for the department until a new hospital is ready.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e633	I am absolutely able to answer the question, and the representative got a good and clear answer. We don't agree, but that doesn't mean I don't answer the question. So that's a new way to evaluate an answer. It's clear that distance is important. That is why I have submitted a national health and hospital plan that establishes it. This means that one should continue to have a decentralised hospital and food supply in Norway. It has been decided that when the new hospital is finished, we will have a joint maternity ward for North-Møre and Romesdal. A prerequisite for that is, among other things, improved follow-up service, the assurance that such a change does not affect the quality and follow-up of those who are born. That was one of the reasons why the board decided not to make a merger in August this year. They believed that the prerequisites for ensuring safety, security, for the absence of citizens, as the situation had evolved. I think that was a wise decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e642	Kjersti Top – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e647	The dissatisfaction with the fact that hospitals are driven as if they were businesses is large and increasing. Current processes in several health care establishments have very low confidence, both among professionals and among the population. This applies to the closure of Ullevål hospitals, the closure of the maternity wards in Kristiansund and the aggregation of hospitals in Helgeland. Representatives from the Government Party have expressed themselves strongly critical of, among other things. the plans for closure of Ullevål and Kristiansund. Nevertheless, they do not dare to thwart the businessmen and vote in line with their own over-intelligence as to what hospital services we are going to have in this country. So strong are health professionals say power over this government. Can the Minister of Health further defend a system that increases mistrust among both the people and professionals, and where elected representatives hide behind the executive board rather than allow the Stortinge to take control and responsibility for one of our most important welfare services?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e656	The size is responsible for one of our most important health services through the fact that the state is responsible for the hospitals. It is the Stortinget that determines the framework for hospital activities, both through the State budget and – not least – through a variety of professional and political leadership. The strongest leadership is in the National Health and Hospital Plan, which has just determined that we should have the smaller hospitals in Norway; we should have a decentralised hospital structure. In Helgeland, a local initiative was taken as early as 2014/2015 to want a discussion on what was most appropriate for Helgeland to have as a structure. When they themselves asked to make changes to the hospital structure in Helgeland, I traveled around and visited all the hospitals and municipalities concerned, prior to receiving a mandate from me. The mandate is to investigate either the structure of the day, a structure with two hospitals or a structure with a large emergency hospital. Those decisions are not yet taken, but all shall be involved in the basis of such a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e663	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e668	My question goes to Astrup, so the Minister of Health can take a break, and the Minister of Digitalisation can come up. Many of us have been excited about what it means to get a Minister of Digitalisation. The most pessimistic have perhaps feared that the Minister of Digitalisation will be the new shaman of government, with many great words and promises, but get concrete results. The more optimistic have hoped that the new Council of State will become a pioneer who will provide new policy responses to the challenges of digitisation. That is why I have followed with great interest the debate that has now gone on about ownership of data. From the answers of the Council of State so far, he is now closer to being a pioneer, but he will now have an opportunity to change this. Developments in artificial intelligence and big data are fast and provide enormous opportunities for creating a better society and new industries. The possibilities for Norway are enormous. We're well positioned. But that requires that we set the right political frameworks. We now see that the rest of the world is speeding up, and our advantage here in Norway is at risk of going out on date. We don't have much time. We already see that the policy is late and that the shadows are growing larger. Power is concentrated on the few, powerful global technology giants, such as Facebook, Google and Amazon, and in the ultimate sense, power is now shifted over social development away from democracy and beyond to a few. So my question to the Minister for Digitalisation is: What is the strategy of the Council of State to ensure that Norwegian data, both those in public ownership and those owned by each of us, is not only used to strengthen the power of the international technology giants, but can also be used to create new business in Norway, so that we can ensure that the community can take its share of the value created by digitisation?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e681	Let me first say that I am very pleased that there was a question of digitisation, because I was afraid that the National Assembly was not concerned about what opportunities the digital revolution can give us – because they are great. Then I am glad that the Workers' Party has turned around in its view of how we should manage data. It's not that long since the Labour Party leader, Jonas Gahr Støre, traveled to Silicon Valley and said we should give away our health data to Google and see what they're doing with them. Now I hear that the pipe has got a different song, and that's good. Yes, data is important, and there are two slightly different issues the representative addresses. One question is about all the data that you and I and everyone else in this society give from us every single day using our applications on mobile phones, PCs and other places, to, among other things. international technology companies, but also Norwegian technology companies. The second issue concerns public data, and there is a completely different issue. In the public sector, we, as the representative, have enormous amounts of data that can be of great value if we use them correctly, but it requires that the data be shared, that it be reused and that it be processed. This is the basis for, for example: making use of artificial intelligence in general government and to improve the provision of public services. If we are to get seamless public services – it is a goal that services are perceived as seamless to users – we also need to share data across a completely different way from what we do. All of this is possible while ensuring privacy and security in a good way. I believe that when we are about to create a public sector digitalisation strategy, attention must be paid to this: we need to make available and share more public sector data, not least across the public sector, but also facilitate private sector innovation and value creation at the back of public data.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e695	Yes, they're different, the two directions described, but both have to be managed, and I don't think there's any disagreement that it has to be shared. But my question is how to jointly manage this. Many have said that data is the new oil. It might be a cliché, but I think it's important to look at the management of data a little bit the same way we looked at the management of natural resources, like oil, but also the hydropower and the forest. I also think there are similarities in the Council's response now, because it reminds me a little of the attitude you had in the 1960s, when one was about to give up hope of oil in the North Sea and the management of it. But I agree with the Council of State that there is a difference, too much of the data that we now have, it's each of us as individuals who own, and that we give Facebook permission to use. But I don't think this makes the question less relevant, rather the opposite, and it also makes it more complicated to solve, as the debate has shown. Who owns the data, and that they are managed in a way that benefits the community, is what I think is crucial. I would ask the Council of State to clarify: is it right to understand that the Council of State does not think it should be managed in order to safeguard the interests of the community?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e704	It is possible that the representative and I have a slightly different view of Norwegian oil history when he draws the parallel between what I just said, and that it was thought that there was no oil on the Norwegian base at the beginning of the 1960s, but that we later found that oil and managed it in a reasonable way. I believe that data management is a big and important question. I'm glad the representative is taking it up, and it's not going to be the last time we're discussing this. But I think the European starting point is good. In China, the country owns the data in the United States – a bit of a diabolical way – the companies own the data; in Europe, the population owns the data. I think that also has to be our starting point. The GDPR is a starting point, and then we have to work on it with additional data management in the future. There are a number of important issues that will arise, not least when we are going to use data to develop artificial intelligence and new public services. Time doesn't go by, but we're going to talk more about this – I'm sure.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e713	There will be follow-up questions – Torstein Tvedt Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e718	I'm assuming we'll talk more about this. I think the Council of State has a good description, but what I am asking for is the concrete response of the Council of State responsible to how we will meet the developments described here, now that data is becoming increasingly crucial to social development. It will only be a more important and important issue that will also address more and more areas for which this room is responsible – from health, transport and energy to justice. Again, as I have described, the concentration of power is now much greater in the few large international companies. What I want is that, in the absence of a strategy and a principle approach from the government, digitisation is now steered in the wrong direction, so that the interests of the technology giants are in the driver's seat. Let me give a concrete example: the Council of State emphasises – and we agree – that the public must make available and share more data. It's working on it. But let's now say that public cooperation with private individuals and that the private actor, as a result of access to public data, is developing better services, for example. an algorithm or product that they can sell on the global market. Does the Council of State mean that the public should not take part in the creation of value that has come from this cooperation?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e725	The representative asks many questions, but does not provide any answers. It's worth noting. I am concerned that we need to facilitate value creation and innovation by making data available, including public data. It is an ambition — of course — that this data should benefit Norwegian business, and that it should help create new jobs, new innovative services that can benefit the population, and not least tax revenues, which, after all, finance our well-being in Norway. So there's some issues here, there's no doubt about it. We've seen examples from the United Kingdom, where the NHS gave patient data to a company that was already purchased by Google, and so they actually gave their data their right to Google. It is not relevant for Norway, as I see it, to provide sensitive personal data to someone. We're still going to have a consent-based approach to data sharing, but there's also a lot of data that can be shared without consent.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e734	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e739	My question goes to the Minister of Health. Throughout the country there are planned to be cut in important patient services in health care, such as in More and Romesdal. Food departments shall be closed down, it shall be cut during laying time, ambulances and rehabilitation services shall disappear in order to save the health care provider’s money. At the same time, a document on the NRK, in Focus, shows that health services use large resources on treatments that are at best unnecessary and that are, in worst cases, harmful. Studies carried out by the Medical Association show that nine out of ten people believe that over-treatment and over-diagnosis are taking place in the Norwegian health care system. This is a very big problem, both for patient safety and for the fair prioritisation of our health resources. The way health services are funded, with unit prices and tariffs, is a powerful driver of just overdiagnosis and overtreatment. According to NRK, a pediatrician in Arendal had 14 million. Last year’s reimbursement, and the NRK has demonstrated that this contract specialist has performed asthma nurses, given allergy vaccines and prescribed an asthma medicine for children who do not need it. The fact that the NRK has to document and put the search light on such cases shows that the supervisory authorities and healthcare professionals do not have control. Overtreatment costs Norwegian society expensive, and there is a great need for money in health services, but the most important thing is that it hurts Norwegian patients. The Norheim Committee considered that there is a need for more knowledge of the funding arrangements – whether they affect specialists and general in their referral practices and priorities. This is something the government has not followed up on. The question is what the government is doing to prevent the financing system from leading to over-treatment and mistreatment, and what the government will do to remedy the lack of control over money use.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e754	Firstly, there were some references to things that the representative said about Health More and Romesdal that are not right, because the board has not adopted the changes to which the representative referred. On the part of Health Møre and Romsdal, it's about running in line with the money they get from Stortinget; it's not about saving money. Then it is that the Medical Association has launched an initiative that I am very pleased with, namely the ‘Make wise choices’ campaign, in which you are just going to give colleagues good support in making right, wise choices based on good medicine. This is from and inspired by, among others. Great Britain. The study referred to by the representative, also mentioned in the NRC today, shows that very many doctors believe that they are over-treating and that it is over-treatment of patients. We also look at this from the national health atlases, with the considerable variation it is in treatment. A question in the same study doctors about what is the reason for this. There they say very strongly and clearly that it is not least about the patient's expectation, the fear of making mistakes, etc. The economy comes at the bottom of the list, and it therefore does not support the representative’s input into this case. I am also very concerned about this, and that is also one of the reasons why I have commissioned the health regions in 2019 to undergo 17 interventions that are being carried out on a large scale in the Norwegian healthcare system, but which have little or no documented effect. We are taking action to reduce and phase out the type of treatment that the representative is also involved in. There are too many patients in Norway who wait unnecessarily long for a treatment they should never have had, and when they receive it, they are exposed to a medical risk instead of receiving the treatment they should have had. So this is something we're systematically working on to improve, and not least the knowledge that comes out through the health atlas is a tool in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e767	First of all, my view is not incorrect. I said that the company planned for important cuts in patient supply in Health More and Romesdal. I think it is sad that we have a health minister who has to show a campaign that the Medical Association is launching, about such an important issue in our healthcare system as over-treatment and abuse of health resources, and that puts patient safety at risk. I expected a health minister himself to take the initiative, even to launch a campaign – together with the Medical Association and others – and to ensure that we got rid of the unculture, the crazy practice that is. I also expected a health minister to take seriously a NOU, what a public selection has said, that funding can actually lead to error priorities. I have to ask again: will not the Minister of Health himself do systematic work to prevent overdiagnosis and overtreatment in the Norwegian health care system?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e776	If I don't remember completely wrong, the representative Toppe has listened to my hospital speeches, the five speeches I have given, and if she has listened to those speeches, she has come to realize that this has been a review theme in the assignments I have given to the health regions since I became Minister of Health. The fact that one in Norway has such a wide variation in treatment levels for Norwegian patients, I mentioned in the hospital speech in 2017 as a failure in Norwegian healthcare. I also mentioned some of the initiatives I have taken in this area, in my first response. I've had conversations with the Lege Association about their campaign. They are very concerned that there is a campaign run by the Medical Association as a colleague-based campaign, that some of the legitimacy of the campaign is just about it, and that one therefore does not want this to be a joint project between us and the Medical Association.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e783	There will be follow-up questions – first Kjersti Toppe.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e789	I have been in the hospital, and I have noticed one thing – that the Minister of Health will not take the word ‘overtreatment’ in his mouth, but rather talk about unwarranted variation. I thought that was wrong. A spade must be called a spade and over-treatment must be used for over-treatment. We have a government that has introduced free treatment options, which means increasing privatisation, and we also know that there is even less control over whether an actual priority is right. The 17 measures taken by the Council of State in their hospital address are well and good, but how many hundreds of thousands of treatments do we not have in the Norwegian healthcare system? What do we do to support the general public in their priorities, and what do we do to support the contract specialists in their priorities – to prevent over-treatment? And what does the Council of State do to prevent us from having an economy and funding that is a driver of over-treatment?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e796	The representative will then have all the measures in place in this area. This is an important systematic work that is not least dependent on the fact that there is an upsurge of attention among doctors in hospitals. That's why we have, among other things, facilitated more transparency around these variations. The reason why we consistently use the term ‘variation’ is that if a user takes away the concept of ‘overtreatment’ from another major problem, namely that patients do not receive the treatment they should have. It's not just about over-treatment, it's about unwarranted variation. It's just by using that term, going into this and actually dealing with the variation that an actually gets a professional realization that this is a problem that one has to work with. I record that there has become a completely different attention around it now, under me as Minister of Health, than it has been before. Then we also work with the funding system, including: to see if we can get more coherence in treatment processes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e803	Let's go to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e808	My question goes to the Minister of Social Security. I believe that, in the field of preparedness, we need to be more concerned with protecting the civilian population, because we know that the threat has changed, that we have certain states, terrorist organisations, etc. addressing their weapons and threats to the civilian population in order to create panics and sufferings that bring down countries. The weapons we're talking about are chemical weapons, poison gas, biological weapons, nuclear weapons, etc. The measures we have taken to protect the civilian population against this have been shelters, sirens, etc. It was confirmed by the Civil Protection Act at the latest, which was dealt with at Stortinget in 2010. But when there was a draft investigation on shelter from the Directorate of Social Security and Preparedness, DSB, which was handed over to the government in June 2016, i.e. almost three years ago, it turned out that the situation with regard to the country's refuge room is very ominous. Most of the private people who run or should run shelters do not know that they are responsible for it, etc. I brought this up with former State Council Per-Willy Amundsen the summer of 2017, and I brought it up with Tor Mikkel Wara a year ago here in Stortinget. Every time I have received a very vague response to what the government is doing to follow up the three-year-old very serious report. So my question to the new Minister of Social Security is, what does the government do to follow up the very alarming concept investigation on shelters from spring 2016?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e821	The task of civil defence is to plan and implement measures to protect the civilian population in war and in peacetime. It is also a strengthening resource for the emergency and emergency seat and for a wide range of events. The DSB has made a recommendation – as the representative points out – on what kind of civil defence and what kind of civil protection measures Norway should have in the future. The proposal has been widely consulted, and many useful input has been made. The Ministry of Justice has commissioned the DSB to prepare an impact and cost analysis of the proposals submitted in the investigation by the end of June of this year. This applies, inter alia, to: proposals for the civil protection measures on which the representative is concerned: warning, evacuation and shelter. The protection measures are also of great importance for the overall defence, and this work must therefore come first. It is therefore also appropriate to await changes in the rural structure until experience has been gained with the new regions and county offices.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e832	I thank you for your answer. When I asked the previous Minister of Justice and Security, Tor Mikkel Wara, about this, he said that the department had given DSB the task of compiling the answers to the hearing, which was completed in June 2017, by 1 December 2017 and sending a recommendation to the Ministry of Justice. My question is: it has been three years since this report came. Is not the Council of State concerned about the lack of follow-up — if you are still waiting for a recommendation on what to do with this report? This has been a big topic. The NRK team e.g. The report “The Forgotten Rooms” in December 2018, and we have had reports on TV 2 and the Evening Post. You have known about this for three years now – and the time is running out.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e839	The Ministry of Justice has commissioned the DSB to prepare an impact assessment and a cost analysis of the proposals submitted in the investigation by June this year. It is good that the representative is also concerned with the security of the civilian population, and so am I, and shelter is a place of protection for the population, primarily in the event of armed conflict. For many decades, the upgrading and maintenance of shelters has not been a high priority. The current security policy situation has changed the risk and vulnerability profile and implies that we need to change our priorities in relation to just the shelters. Unlike a traditional armed conflict, any terrorist attack involving the use of toxic gases, as the representative also pointed out, viruses, radioactive radiation and other things, is unlikely to be notified in advance.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e846	Thank you for that too. It has also been in the response of the other Ministers for Justice and Security that it will not be notified in advance, but it will not apply to all kinds of situations. For example, a poison gas cloud can drift around here in the Oslo area or elsewhere, and you could achieve something by having available shelters. A free-buying scheme was put in place in 1998 to enable non-hidden builders to dispose of it by providing funds in a locked fund to rehabilitate or build new shelters. This is called free-buying. In a TV 2 report in June 2018 it turned out that it is now 130 million. kr in open-ended funds in that fund. My question is, does the government have any plans for using the money that actually stands there that you can put in to upgrade the shelters, and do you have a system to charge them by the builders? Or is there something that is translated into practice?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e855	I have to go on where I left off: Refuge space is a protection intended to protect the population primarily in armed conflict, but we also see that the development of society and the environment around us has changed somewhat from when the shelters were established. There is a need for civil protection measures with warning, evacuation and shelter, and as I said, these shelters are established with a different starting point from what we see today in the need for civil protection measures. Socio-economic assessments must be put in place, but I can assure the representative that the recordings of a safe everyday life – and not least of the population – are something I am working on.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e862	Then the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e876	There will be some changes to the questionnaire, and the President will refer to the electronic question list in this section. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Sigbjørn Gülsvik to the Minister for Finance, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Finance, who has been removed. Question 2, from the representative of Torstein Tvedt Solberg to the Minister for Knowledge and Integration, must be postponed until the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 3, from the representative Jan Bøhler to the Minister for Knowledge and Integration, will be answered by the Minister for Children and Family, who will direct him. Question 4, from the representative of Masud Gharahkhani to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, must be postponed until the next Question Time when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e894	This question, from the representative Sigbjørn Gülsvik to the Minister for Finance, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Finance, who has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e899	‘In the State budget, rail staff received a real tax bomb from the Council of State. The free ticket was now to be taxed. I think we'll have a cold shower. Because of the government’s railway reform, former NSB employees in companies such as Bane NOR and Baneservice are now informed that they are not receiving the tax rebate of NOK 8 000 that other employees receive. They are suddenly very hard taxed for a right they have had throughout their professional life. Will the Council of State correct this unfairness?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e912	The change the representative of Gülsvik is talking about is a consequence of the changed rules that Stortinget deals with in connection with the revised national budget last year. These changes had several objectives, all in line with the latest tax reforms that have been implemented. The changes were intended to make the legislation simpler, with fewer specific rules and exceptions. This contributes to fiscal non-discrimination between industry-wide and addition-level additions. But the changes were also meant to clean up in cases where practice had slipped out, and where there were significant values that had been transferred to add, without taxing, and without adding light to social security rights, etc. of these values. So it has proved that before passenger transport it has our systems that have been demanding to handle in accordance with the legislation. The government listens to the concerns of the winter sector and postponed until July 1st this year to adapt the schemes and the system. In the meantime, the liberal practice of tax-free free tickets could be passed on to the same date. At the end of April, Specter contacted the Ministry of Finance and took care of the concerns of members of the railway sector. Specter met with the Ministry of Finance earlier in May. It was found that the companies need some more time to adapt and put in place good ticketing and system solutions that make it possible to comply with the legislation in a good way, without unnecessary manual procedures. I'm, of course, busy complying with the tax rules in a good way, and it's as effective as possible. We have therefore decided to provide the transport sector with an additional postponement until 1 January 2020. This means that the sector can use the summer and the cottage to put in place good solutions so that, from January 2020, they can comply with the rules in the best possible way, which also means that they add social security rights to them.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e923	It is quite right, as the Council of State says, that the background is a decision in relation to the treatment of the revised national budget last year, for which a majority on the Stortinget unfortunately agreed. The centre party voted against this at the time, and on two occasions we have later proposed that the new rules be withdrawn, so that a better process is achieved, with both the employer and the employee sides well maintained. These are rules that have contributed to more bureaucracy in addition to increased taxes on many employees. What I specifically ask on my question is the consequence for former NSB employees who are now working in other companies. First split one up, and then a split-up uses as a argument that one of the companies that are divorced should not have a right that other employees should have. Why does the government think it's wise?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e930	In principle, income-replaced benefits must be taxed. This means that we can have a fair tax system, which means that there are equal conditions of competition between companies, which means that there are equal conditions for adding to the sector, and which means that a non-favourable provision of benefits over wages, which means that the pension and social security rights they add have been established, are lower than those they would otherwise have been. It is important for them to add that the benefits you actually get are a contribution to a pension and social security allowance. Therefore, it is necessary that the added benefits are subject to taxation. So we do one thing, unlike the Center Party, simply reduces instead of tightening up the tax base. This makes ordinary workers feel better, but it also makes them feel better about pension and social security rights when they receive benefits from employers.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e937	With the Central Party's alternative government budget, everyone with income below NOK 700000 would receive a lower tax than with the government's plans. In our eyes, there are ordinary workers. In addition, we have significantly lower charges than the government has. Now, the principle one uses here is that those who work hard, day and night on the railway, making sure that the train lines and trains are clear, so they shouldn't benefit from the same rights as for example. a director of the Vy does. Why does one do this delimitation? Why does one ensure that employees who work in Baneservice and Bane NOR, who have earned rights – and the Council of State has not provided these increased salaries as compensation for it – who are in heavy conversion processes, and who are in hard work, lose the rights they have had for generations?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e946	What you're going to do is you're going to add a tax on the benefits that are taxable. It's a foundation in the whole tax system, that's the basis for people thinking up social security rights, which means that they don't only have good arrangements when they're healthy and on doing an important job for society -- which we're all a few of them about doing -- but that they have the benefits they need if they're going out of work one day, get out of retirement, or in a period of working life, they're out of work. Thus, tax also means the processing of rights. There are rights they won't get with the Center Party, which they'll get with us – simply because employee benefits are taxed so that a tendon up such rights. And then we do everything we can to reduce rather than tighten the taxes, as opposed to the tax sharpening party of the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e960	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e968	This question, from the representative Jan Bøhler to the Minister for Knowledge and Integration, will be answered by the Minister for Child and Family Affairs who directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e973	I would like to ask the Minister for Children and Family Affairs the following questions: ‘In a decision taken on 29 May 2018, the Government was asked to ‘provide supervision and transparency of the arrangements in the schools of Quran and other religious communities as part of the conditions for obtaining State aid. Important factors here should be the use of Norwegian language and the absence of extreme attitudes and gender segregation from childhood. What has the government done to follow up the decision until now, and what will be done in the future?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e982	The training of children and young people is a central part of the activities of the Norwegian Church and many other religious communities in Norway. It is important that faith training takes place in a safe framework and is adapted to the level of maturity of young people. Quran schools, Sunday schools and other religious education in religious communities are not subject to the applicable law of public oversight, as schools recognised by the Law of the Free School. Faith training is not a task of the faith community on behalf of the public, or which requires official approval. It is a leisure activity for children and young people under the direction of non-governmental organisations. Of course, religious communities must comply with Norwegian law, in line with everyone else in Norwegian society. Thus, the training of children and young people cannot be conducted in breach of general legislation. I assume that the request decision that the representative of Bohemia addresses his question applies to the conditions for receiving grants as a religious community. As the representative of Bøhler is probably familiar with, the grant scheme for religious communities other than the Norwegian Church is a legal and rights-based scheme. Thus, new conditions for grants cannot be introduced without a legislative amendment. I Prop. 1 S for 2018–2019 from the Ministry of Culture, Stortinget was briefed on the follow-up to the request decision. Here it says: «The decision will be followed up in the work of a new law for religious and life views.» The government aims to present a proposal for a new law on religious and life views as soon as possible. The conditions and requirements applicable to the grant-receiving religious and life-viewing communities will be part of that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e989	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It's important to see that this concerns a lot of the issues we're dealing with here on the Storting, which concerns social control in the minority communities, which is whether we're going to succeed in integrating, as I mentioned in the question. That's why a majority took the decision that I referred to. When I hear the argument of the Council of State, I am a little in doubt whether he agrees with the decision, or whether he has an opinion that is not in line with that decision. I was at a debate meeting yesterday that Born Free and the organisation LIM arranged. There the police said – among other things, With reference to a very serious case in the Drammen mosque, where children had stayed at a Quran school for five days a week – that they lacked rules on supervision in Norway, as they have in Denmark. I am concerned about the state council's attitude to this when he goes into the work he refers to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e998	I can reassure the representative that I too am very concerned about these issues. Fight against child abuse, fight against extremism, ensure that no negative social control is carried out – this is important to me, and it is an important part of the work. There are several request decisions that will be followed up in the work we want to deliver to Stortinget as soon as possible. At the same time, I would like to stress that interference in the inner life of religious communities, whether it be training or preaching, shall be done on a safe basis and with intelligence if it is necessary to do so. Unfortunately, I can't go any further into a concrete follow-up, because that will give Stortinget the opportunity to both see and discuss when the new law is presented in a short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e1007	I thank you for the additional reply. I believe that there is a great difference between interfering in things that affect freedom of religion and the autonomy of one's faith, and interfering in relationships that have a significant impact on our growing-up environments – for all the growing-up environments here in Norway, also for children who do not attend it and the Qur'an school or other types of schools: Is there gender segregation from the childhood of – do boys and girls be separated in the teaching of the offers that receive state aid? Is it necessary to wear certain garments, e.g. hijab, to participate there? Is the Norwegian language used, or is there any other language in which the teaching takes place? There are very important factors for Norwegian society to take an interest in and follow up on if you also care for children and young people participating in these offers. I believe that has nothing to do with freedom of faith.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e1014	Yesterday I visited the Catholic Church. Every weekend, they arrange 152 fairs. Now I don't remember the number, but the fairs are in a large number of different languages. So it's going to be demanding with language, because it could be a Polish people who want there to be some teaching in Polish. I understand what is the starting point of the representative, namely to fight oppression, extremism and negative social control. I'll do that in full. Just who's going to perform any supervision, how it's going to be done, what's going to be consequences, what conditions it might be, I can't get into now, but I share the commitment to protect children. But I am also concerned about ensuring freedom of belief, which I think we are fully agreed to be prevailing in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e1030	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e1038	‘On-going social and health work in Norway celebrates 50 years in 2019. The outreach work is early work in practice and reaches out in about 100 municipalities to young people with a need for help, to groups and individuals who do not otherwise reach the auxiliaries. In order to continue and strengthen this work, a plan for the field, national professional development, standards and quality criteria is needed. How will the Council of State ensure a national effort and coordination of the outreach field in the municipalities? [[outline contacts]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e1045	There is every reason to congratulate all dedicated social and health professionals who can celebrate this year's anniversary, with an important effort for the most vulnerable in society. Outreach social work is not a statutory health and care service, but, as the representative refers to, well over 100 municipalities have that kind of offer. Health promotion and the security of assistance and care when needed are the pillars of our welfare society. This includes, inter alia: ensuring equivalent conditions for children growing up in vulnerable environments or coming from families with drug problems and mental health challenges. Outreach work is one of several key ways of reaching out to, among others. young people in need of help. Early interventions are referred to as work that helps to identify and address a problem at an early stage. Outreach and early intervention are methods that can help as well as those with early drug problems as well as the group of established drug problems. Health and care services for children and young people and their families are an important area of government activity. Outreach work is also central to the government’s work on coordinated and multidisciplinary assistance for vulnerable children and young people under the age of 24, otherwise referred to as 0-24 cooperation. Early intervention in the field of drugs affects and involves sectors other than the social and health sectors. It is therefore important to have a broad anchoring at both department and directorate level. The guide ‘From concern to action’, developed in cooperation between the Directorate of Health, Buffdir, the Directorate of Police and the Directorate of Education, has been widely used. In this context, the competence needed to address the problems and the competence to act on a matter of concern is central to the issue. I can assure the representative that the government's policy in this area works, and that there is a wide range of services we build to reach particularly vulnerable groups. In this, outreach work is an important element. The action plan for the drug field is now in its fourth year, and the follow-up evaluation shows that the proportion of municipalities carrying out out out out outreach social work targeting young people, such as young people, is now within their fourth year. external contacts, have increased from 25 pst. to 41 pst. This Regulation shall enter into force on the That's an increase of almost 70 pst. and a clear indication that this gives effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e1058	I thank you for the answer, and I think the Council of State well describes the important work that the outreach services do. I've been out in Oslo myself, and it's amazing to see how close they get to special young people who may not otherwise be caught up in the ordinary auxiliaries. I am also aware that the outreach contacts in the largest cities sent a letter to the Ministry of Health and Health at the late harvest last year, where they deal with some of the issues that the Minister of Health also has to deal with. This is not a statutory service and therefore they also feel that the field is left to themselves in practice, that there are no national guidelines or quality criteria, and that there is a lack of a national centre of competence to ensure professional development. They request a national strategy or a government plan for the further development of outreach services and outreach contacts and a set of quality criteria that can further stimulate the field. Will this be relevant to the Minister of Health?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e1065	I would first like to say that I believe that developments show that the municipalities are taking this issue very seriously, and that the growth of outreach work also shows that the policy that has been pursued is now working. I am also concerned that we should not break down local initiatives and solutions with too much centralised coordination or bureaucracy, and that precisely this is an area that is very dependent on it being adapted to local conditions, because Norway is very different, and this type of work is naturally very locally anchored. Making one template to be used for everyone, I don't think that's necessarily the solution. We have also recently presented a national strategy against overdose deaths, which will apply in 2020. In addition, outreach work is an important element of harm-reduction measures. Then, as said, we have a supervisor in this area, «From concern to action», and that kind of material is of course something that we can always develop for the better.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e1076	As I perceive these professional environments and out-of-office contacts as, among other things. have signed the letter sent to the Ministry of Health and Health, they are concerned that this is a subject in itself, and they are calling for a bet on this subject alone. They show, among other things: the need for a national professional lift and a national coordinating professional hub for outreach work. This does not mean that there should be one template for the implementation of outreach work in all municipalities, but that attention should be paid to professional development, that it should be central and that there should be some quality criteria for it. In the past, KoRus had such a function here in Oslo, it was a national competence center. Would it be appropriate for the Minister of Health to listen to the advice of those outbound contacts who have sent this letter and restore such a professional centre of competence?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e1083	We're always open to listening to recordings. Now we have a general review of the different national competence centres and the distribution of work and tasks there, so something like that might have to be looked at in such a context.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e1091	My question to the Minister for Health is as follows: ‘The Agderpost has recently raised concerns about the setting of limited requirements for the content of patient consultation by medical specialists. Some consultations may have a duration of 15 to 40 seconds, without HELFO having had the opportunity to address such a practice. Does the Council of State consider that the current reimbursement and control system for medical specialists needs to be improved and should a minimum time requirement be considered for a medical/patient meeting to be defined as a consultation entitled to full reimbursement?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e1100	The answer is that the control systems should be continuously improved. This is done through the conversion we have in Helfo, where, among other things, The competence environment working with control is now being gathered in Fredrikstad. The fact that we also get a much more digitized service in this area involves greater control possibilities. Medical specialists may require social security disbursement in accordance with a regulatory framework. Most doctors follow the code we've created. We want to have a trust-based system in Norway, which works well, but where we have good control procedures to capture those who are trying to exploit a trust-based system. My impression is that there are a few who exploit the scheme, and that Helfo has good control procedures to detect fraud, but will be even better in this area. They are developing continuous systems and procedures to capture even more juxtapositions and those exploiting the system. We are in the department's continuous dialogue with Helfo to see if there is a need to make regulatory adjustments along the way, to make them even better able to detect this kind of jux. I believe Helfo is implementing good control measures. They find deviations and it shows that the control mechanisms are working. There is always room for improvement in a system that is so much based on trust between health professionals and authorities. Most doctors are conscientious and just, and they use the fare system as they should. The alternative to this would be a very bureaucratic system, in which, in my opinion, we had to use many health resources in the wrong way. In addition to Helfo, other actors have a role to play. The health regions agree with the contract specialists and shall follow up the activity, opening hours, equipment and device in practice. The county may carry out supervision. A medical consultation is not a strictly defined concept, either in terms of content or duration. In the reimbursement system for medical specialists, the fare is called ‘specialist consultation’ and it is a condition that the patient has been referred to a medical specialist. I would be careful to be too bastant about whether a minimum time requirement should be considered. Of course, 15–40 seconds seem short-lived, but at the same time one must assume that other health professionals have also treated the patient in connection with this kind of short-lived consultation. We want a development where more team-based health services are available, where another type of healthcare professional — including a medical specialist — can participate in such a team and contribute to the patient’s better follow-up. But it is the individual medical specialist who is being financed. However, most medical consultations are longer than what is presented as an example in the representative’s questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e1117	I thank you for your answer. I agree that we must have a system based on both trust and discretion. At the same time, the control procedures must be in place so that those who deserve trust do not feel suspicious. We should be careful to address the specific matter that the Agederpost has raised, but in my view it still reveals some fundamental questions. I perceive that the Council of State is rather vague when it comes to the issue of time use. For me, it is a bit alarming if a time use of 15-40 seconds should trigger the same reimbursement tariff as a consultation of perhaps 15-20 minutes. It'll give you a very different kind of practice, and in my view, you'll then open up to make use of the system. It also comments on Helfo in the case. Does not the Council of State Höie find it problematic that some medical specialists can charge large amounts of money for many consultations that have a duration of less than one minute?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e1124	As I had in my answer: In terms of time use, you should be careful to say that there should be absolute demands. It is not necessarily the use of time, when you look at the contract specialist in your eyes, which describes the same healthcare as the patient receives, for example. in cases where other healthcare professionals are part of a patient’s treatment regimen. But it is the contact of contract specialists with patients that is what we fund, and they must, of course, pay other health professionals through these tariffs. I am also concerned that we should have a healthcare service that has a funding system that facilitates innovation and new ways of working, for example. through digital aids, video consultations, etc. If the legislation becomes rigid, it will prevent innovation and new ways of working that are in line with what the patient wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e1131	Of course, I am also concerned that we should have an effective healthcare system, but we should also have a healthcare system where we spend money in a good way, and prevent over-treatment and over-diagnosis. In the case of Agderposten, Helfo himself says that they are skeptical that a consultation triggers the consultation tariff when the doctor-patient meeting is less than a minute. However, they cannot do anything when the definition of consultation does not contain a requirement for time use, as seen. You can discuss whether there should be absolute demands, but I think this kind of thing illustrates a challenge that should be addressed when it comes to a system that manages tens of billions of dollars. In its first response, the Council of State said that the control systems should be continuously improved. My question is this: what concrete action will the Minister of Health take to improve Helfo’s control tools, and that owner’s control procedures can be even better, rather than simply responding to continuous improvement.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e1140	The concrete steps I have taken are the conversion of Helfo by bringing together the environment of competence in fewer places, so that there is a strong environment of competence for control activities, which is now located in Fredrikstad. It is based on the good environment that is there, but it is further strengthened by the change that is now taking place in Helfo. With this conversion, we contribute to the financing of a greater degree of digitisation of this type of service in Helfo. The digital solutions also offer completely different opportunities for control activities, such as: can identify whether someone has a practice that differs significantly from that of others. It is likely that the use of artificial intelligence in the future, as well as entirely other new digital tools, will also reveal whether someone should be followed up and checked because one has a practice that differs from another's.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e1148	‘What is the opinion of the Council of State on leakages from the State budget?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e1153	Both the individual parts and the whole of the revised national budget, which was put before the Storting last week, show that this government is pursuing an economic policy that facilitates value creation and a sustainable welfare society. As Minister of Industry, I am particularly concerned that the government announced better conditions for entrepreneurs, more focus on climate investment, better follow-up to competition in the food industry and measures for green shipping. The content of some of the government's proposals was also known through the media before the presentation of the budget. The State budget gives an overview of all state activities and shows the government’s political priorities. Many are involved in the preparation of a State budget, including the revised national budget. Of course, we have a good framework for how the information is handled in such processes. Furthermore, the government attaches great importance to pursuing a comprehensive policy. That is why we are also concerned that the government's draft government budget is presented in full to the Stortinget. However, it is a long practice for the government to find it appropriate to inform at all times of the content of individual draft budgets prior to the overall presentation, within the framework of the protection directive, the internal legislation and other relevant legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e1164	In the newspaper on October 10, 2012, we read that the representative Torbjørn Røe Isaksen had an excitation. He thought it was getting less and less respect for what's happening in the main hall. ‘We see a confusion of the whole political formation around the presentation of the budget,’ says Isaac of the Newspaper.’ Further: ‘This case considers that things have run smoothly and indicates that much of the budget was already known in advance after a flood of budgetary leakages.’ And on the other hand, ‘I think it’s also a democratic problem, he continues. – First, there is an undermining of the Storting as the popular arena. A few leaks can be forgiven, but the Stortinget will get the budget on behalf of the voters who sent us here. We're going to get the whole presentation. There is also an undermining of the voters, for they also have the right to see the whole, the good with the bad." What is Councillor Røe Isaksen's comment on the criticism of former representative Torbjørn Røe Isaksen?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e1186	Firstly, I am pleased – I guess so too – that the representative reads the 2012 Newspaper and earlier good recordings and recordings from the undersigned. The extent of so-called pre-profiling or, to say a little more popular, budgetary leakages increased in a large way during the previous government. It was in that budget year about 20 budget leaks. I think that was pretty good, and I think we should have a lively debate on the relationship between big business and government. But now that I'm the Council of State, it's probably others who have to take that discussion on behalf of the Storting. I would also like to add that this is a development that has come and been there under several governments. As the Council of State, it is no longer my role to take that discussion on behalf of the Storting; it must be the Storting itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e1193	Before the presentation of the revised national budget, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries had leaked all its news. The Minister of Industry’s predecessor presented the paper on industry to the press not only before it was available to the Storting, but the day before it had gone to the Council of State. Now the Council of State says that this is not his role as Council of State, but if he thinks it was a good play, I wonder whether the Council of State will nevertheless listen to the former representative of the council of Great Britain Røe Isaacen and make sure that the Stortinget is seen, and I quote again the former representative of Great Britain Røe Isaacen, ‘the whole thing, the good with the bad’. I think that is particularly important at a time when differences in Norway are increasing. Three out of ten families have become poorer under Erna Solberg, and we need to have a debate about the whole of our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e1200	I do not at all agree that the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries had presented all its news from the revised budget. As far as I remember, there were three things that had been mentioned in advance. That being said, it is also true that when there is a big message coming, they will first go to the King and then to the Storing and the public. It is also common for some general features to be presented to the public in advance, but the whole and the notification are presented to the Stortinget. I have to repeat what I said in my previous answer. It is important that we constantly have a lively debate in Norwegian democracy about the relationship between big business and government. The things that are referred to here are probably not something that has arisen in 2013, rather on the contrary. But as a government council, it is no longer my job to take that debate on behalf of the Storting; the Storting must do it on its own.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e1210	‘The road authorities of the Member States have now sent the municipality of Lier their proposal for the E134 Dagslett planning programme – E18 for policy treatment and consultation. The programme only proposes to explore the Jensvoll, White Bank and Husby Corridor, with significant implications for national and local culture, agriculture and nutrition. The curfew corridor that Lier City Council has adopted is not included. The Swedish Road Administration threatens to go directly to the Department for a decision on the municipality of Lier not to publish the Swedish Road Authority's planning programme. Can the Council of State accept its position on local decision-making?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e1217	Last year the Storting decided to further plan and develop the dwindling rv. 23, No E134, on the section Dagslett–Kreuz E18, was to be carried out as a single project. On the basis of the Stortinget’s decision, the Ministry of Transport asked the State Road Administration to draw up a revised proposal for a planning programme for the local authority plan for the section where all relevant options are provided. The Road Administration of the State has then developed proposals for the E134 Dagslett-E18 plan programme. In accordance with the rules on consistency, the proposer shall, in this case the Road Administration of the State, normally draw up draft programmes and publish them for public consideration. There is no requirement for the municipality to consider the draft planning programme before public oversight. In this case, however, proposals for planning programmes have been sent to the municipality for such treatment. In the transmission, the State Road Service has done some good for what kind of alternative the agency proposes to deal with further, and what kind of alternative one does not intend to go on with. This does not prevent the municipality from taking alternatives to the planning programme other than those proposed by the State Road Administration. After listening to the programme, it is usually the administrative authority responsible for the programme, in this case the municipality, as defined in the programme. In the event of a disagreement as to the options to be taken into account, the proposer may ask the department to clarify the issue, which is the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation. An important objective of the Programme is to clarify which options should be further addressed. It is known that there is a disagreement between local authorities and the state authorities about this. Local politicians, including from the government party, have repeatedly met with the ministry, pointing to the same option that the representative Kolberg now does, the Folder option, as an option that should be applied in the same way as other options. There is an assessment I agree with when the local authorities have made the decisions they have made. I believe that the Swedish Road Administration should stick to the municipalities, which at the end of the seventh and the last in this case will define the planning program and with it also sort out the Viking option as one of several options that will provide the basis for future choices. However, I have to add that there is a risk that the progress of the project will be affected by such a distribution. But I think the establishment has to base the local decisions and figure out the option as one of several alternatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e1234	I sincerely thank the Council of State for that answer, for it was a necessary and very important clarification in a very important matter for the municipality of Lier. This is really about the central interests of a municipality, where the state road system has not been sufficiently responsive — i.e. in fact, they have opposed the decisions taken in the local government for quite a number of years. The case goes back twelve years in time, when the Vegvesen wanted the so-called Strandvegen, which was totally unrealistic – everyone saw it. The road authorities also said at the time that if you did not adopt it, there would be a significant delay. Now 12 years have passed, and nothing has happened. So there was the tunnel, Dagslett – Linnes, from which the Vegvesen went away after the Storting had been invited to adopt it. And now we're here, where the Vegvesen almost threatens the municipality again: if you don't do as we say, there will be considerable delays.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e1241	I only need, when I get the question I'm asking from the representative of Kolberg today, to be honest about what kind of professional advice I've been given, so that one is familiar with it when a decision is taken locally. I'm busy at the fact that the state road authority, like all other agencies, actually adheres to the planning authorities that are responsible at any time. Then it is that in individual cases we assess whether we need a government plan to ensure implementation. I mean that at present is not the basis for initiating a state plan on this. We have also had regular meetings with the spokesperson in Lier and representatives from the government party who have said that the Viker option is the best option for local interests. Then I think, in the light of the fact that it has been agreed that the State Road Service should engage in dialogue with the Lier Municipality, which is still a planning authority, in order to find solutions that will allow one to work out the alternative in conjunction with the others. But I also need to be honest about what kind of professional advice we get to progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e1248	I respect what the Council of State says here. We have to do that, because we've been involved in adding such a pattern, so there's no disagreement about this. What it's about is what the Council of State pointed to in its first answer, whether the Vegvesen is going to investigate this as one of the alternatives. That's what's going on. And then I just have to ask the Council of State, so that we are completely safe when we end this question: will the Council of State now make sure that the State Road Service does this without going the way of state plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e1253	I hope I don't instruct anyone in it. It's Lier Municipality that's planning authority. The state road authority must have its planning programme approved there. When I've said that I don't want to initiate a state plan at this point in time, I assume that the state authorities and the local authorities are going to find out that the best they can do is to sit down, find a solution where a deal is made with the Viking alternative in addition to the already proposed alternatives from the State Road Service, and then we'll draw the conclusion when that work is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e1267	This question falls away.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e1276	«In the Drammens region, Buskerudbypakte 2 is negotiated as an agreement between municipalities, counties and state agencies on all necessary collective and road actions, ready for decisions in Stortinget on the part provided for by the State by tolls. The drama Right has now withdrawn from the agreement, based on assurances from the Right parliamentary leader that the package can be implemented without tolls. Governments have expressed themselves in the same direction. Can the Council of State confirm that this is now the government's policy?'
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e1283	It is almost a privilege to be allowed to answer this question the day after the Workers' Party's leaders have been out and said that one will abolish all tolls – so I will be able to answer a question from the representative about getting one to start charging tolls as quickly as possible. I stick to local policy decisions. But I've also been very clear to all these urban areas, and to all other projects, that the government's intention to propose a toll proposition for the Storting is that it's local politics plurality. This means that if there is no longer a local political plurality for Buskerbypak 2 in one of the municipalities, there is no basis for me to go to Stortinget with a toll bill. I know that, for example: Lower Eiker is re-treating the matter today. If there are several against a toll proposition in one of the municipalities that have taken a local political initiative for it, there will also be no toll proposition to Stortinget on that basis. We've been clear about that all along, and there's nothing new about it. Local and plural initiatives have been taken if the government is to go to the Storting with a toll bill. So there's nothing new under the sun. What is new, on the other hand, is that toll resistance is also growing in some of these urban areas. Therefore, as late as this week, I have sent a letter to the State Road Service – which is the one that negotiates urban growth agreements with the four major cities, and which possibly negotiates with the following cities – that we should rather look at cost reductions in the projects to reduce the toll tax. In contrast to the Workers' Party, the government is taking concrete steps to mitigate the toll tax. But I appreciate it so much that the representative Christoffersen – unlike the leader of the Labour Party – is honest about what is the real position of the Labour Party in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e1296	Now I know very well what the Workers' Party stands for in these matters. But what's the big mystery is what the government and the state council stand for, because now the state council says that if there's no local policy decision on tolls, there won't be any of it either. In the case of two of the projects in Buskerudbypack 2, the new Holmenbru to Drammen port is expected to be ready in 2023 with construction start in 2020. The heavy goods transport is now running on an exemption. And E134 through the Power Station does not meet the EU's requirements for tunnel safety and needs to be expanded. The planned start-up period is from 2024 to 2029 and shall be ready by 2029. Both are state highways, and if there are no tolls without local decisions, my question to the Council of State is: how will he cover the costs of the two national road projects? Will he take it entirely over the state budget, or will he cut the cost by half?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e1303	I am always looking to cut costs on all projects. We don't need to build more expensive solutions than we need. It also applies in these cases. After implementing the road reform and establishing New Roads, we can see for example. that they have reduced the cost of the agreed deployments by about 10 %. 20 pst. from estimates. It also provides the basis for lower toll rates. So the answer to that is yes, I'm always looking to cut costs, simply because it reduces the tax on the car list – and for the state budget, which is getting more money released to invest more in the infrastructure we need in the years to come. Then we are now in the process of revising the national transport plan. If the political plurality – what has so far been in all the municipalities of the Buskerudbypack 2 area – comes to a different conclusion than they have so far reached, the discussion on the funding base will be reopened in the context of the next national transport plan. I'm going to stick to the decisions one makes in the selected municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e1312	I thank you for your answer. Then I found out that the council had planned to build a new Holmenbru to Drammen port and extend the E134 as planned, financed by the state budget, and that he would manage it by cutting costs. Then I have another follow-up question. The right rapporteur’s candidate in Drammen has stated that he has received signals from politicians on the Stortinget and in the government that Drammen will retain the reward for public transport of 1.5 billion. kr, even without local co-financing. Who in the government is the one who has given such signals – when perhaps the Minister for Transport will not fully acknowledge those promises? And what about that part of the escalation of public transport in the Drammens region that was initially provided for by tolls - is the Council of State willing to cover it also above the State budget, so that we have the opportunity to achieve the zero growth target in our region as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e1319	When the representative asked questions, it would have been an advantage for everyone if she also listened to me for what answer I gave. The summary of the previous question suggests that the representative of Christoffersen was not as busy as formulating the next question. I don't have any reason to say that the candidate to the Right is in the government apparatus. But what I've been very clear about is that I don't intend to punish the cities if they're very different from what the Labour Party has taken local political initiative, even in these areas. We've got a break-in agreement with the region of today around the Drammen, without the Busker sub-package 2 being signed. In other words, these are the criteria that are in today's arrangement, which is the basis of the average average average of the average average averages. This isn't so much new either. What's new is that the Workers' Party is now terrified that the tolls in and around the Drammen can be reduced.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e1331	«The Municipality of Tromsø and the County of Tromsø have taken all the necessary decisions to start negotiations with the State on an urban index for Tromsø. This was done in December 2017 and January 2018. There have been repeated requests for the start of the negotiations, and pending the start of the negotiations, the municipality of Tromsø has also had to apply for an extension to continue to charge local fuel tax. What is the reason why the negotiations are not yet underway, and when can one expect a start?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e1338	There are actually two simple reasons why the negotiations have not started. The only explanation is that it is natural to see the urban capital talks in conjunction with the city package that is attached. He has been through external quality assurance and is in the department for treatment. I mean, it's natural that we see, for example, that there is a balance between revenue and expenditure in the package before we start urban exchange negotiations. The second explanation is that the state has just completed the renegotiation of the agreement in Trondheim. We are in renegotiation with Oslo, Bergen and Stavanger, and we have prioritised the effort to complete the contract negotiations in these areas before we enter into new ones. I know that one is very impatient in Tromsø after getting started with toll collection as quickly as possible, and that it also has considerable support in Stortinget. However, I have assumed that when they ask for fuel charges to be extended locally while waiting for city-level negotiations, they will be able to do so. From Tromsø's side, they have applied to get support funds in 2019, and I am prepared to allocate it for the current year, while waiting for the start of the contract negotiations. This means that we both make sure that Tromsø doesn't get lost, and that we give priority to our efforts around the areas where we already have contract negotiations going on to get them finished. We are now going through the proposal for a city package for Tromsø. Is there a balance between income and expenditure? Is there sufficient basis for cost management, etc.? Once that work is done, we should look at these two processes gathering.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e1345	The minister does not answer my question about when to expect a start, but indicates that quality assurance is required. Then you can ask yourself if there is anything about the work that has been done over very many years, which does not keep the goal in order to get started. Based on what I know, it's not really that. Then is my question to the Council of State: is there an upper limit on how long should these cities have to wait? There is a reason why it is now necessary to ask for an extension of the fuel tax, because it needs to be lifted in order to get more rewards in place. It's about not seeing the needs of a city that's growing so fast, and not getting done any of the urban development needed to bring down city emissions. So the question is whether there is an upper limit on how long these other cities have to wait.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e1350	I don't have any plans to train progress on these issues, but I have a plan to go through the toll proposition, which they've been working with locally, which has been through external quality assurance, and which is now in the department. I demand, when the Storting has intended to hold me constitutionally responsible for the proposals I make, that the Storting also respect that we must be allowed to review the documents that come to me from local authorities, which are based on the local political desire for tolls, so that I know what we are actually delivering to the Storing. The next question is, how does this affect the economy in Tromsø? It's precisely because the state still – I've signaled it today – is embezzlement. It will remedy the situation in Tromsø in a way that these urban areas never saw the turn of when the Workers' Party was running. Therefore, we have opened up to start city-spelling negotiations when we are ready and have completed the agreements that are already under renegotiation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e1359	The problems in Tromsø now are that the minister does not act, he does not follow up local decisions. That makes you have the problems you have. Tromsø is a city with nearly 80,000 people, it grows by over 1,000 people a year, and it will have an estimated annual growth in travel by 2030 at 8.1 pst. By 2030 there will be over 2.5 million tourists in Tromsø. It goes without saying that, in addition to population growth, there will be major challenges in this small island town. That is why I ask again: what are the Council's solutions to bring down the driving in this city, as long as you do not want to reach the agreement that is ready for negotiation?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e1364	I would once again encourage the representative to hear what the answer I gave to the previous question was. We're going to start city-spelling negotiations with Tromsø. But we are completing the agreement negotiations we are already in, because there are demanding negotiations – billions of dollars are involved – and we have to deal with it well. So I'm going through the toll proposition, on which a local has spent a lot of time, because I'm going to know that the quality of what I'm proposing for the Storting stands. There's nothing new in it. But I'm going to record once again that the eagerness of Stortinget to get the tolls out is enormous. Of course, I will include that in my assessments. But we have to assume that the government will be allowed to make thorough assessments of the proposals that come from local government, when, after all, to print tolls for hundreds of millions of dollars a year.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e1374	I ask the Minister for Research and Higher Education the following questions: ‘Why has the government not provided the necessary funds for the new Viking Ship Museum and Viking Age Collections in the revised national budget?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e1381	I will begin by stating that the ships and collections at the Viking Age Museum in Bygdøy are unique treasures and among our most important world heritage. We must and must take care of that world heritage. Therefore, the government of the Granavolden platform has determined that the government will start the construction of a new Viking Age museum. That's why the government has also spent 140 million. kr on the Viking ships and their gatherings in the last few years. Many activities are being undertaken to develop and research methods for the safe conservation and preservation of collections. This has been largely funded by the State budget since 2012. The main hazards associated with the ships themselves are building conditions and the indoor climate of today's museum. The construction project for the new Viking Age Museum on Bygdøy has been planned, developed and designed since 2012. It's spent 85 million. kr for the design of the construction project and an additional 15 mill. kr to the hedged project that is part of this. The main reason why the rest of the collection is in great danger is that the items are broken down from the inside. The collections are preserved with alum, which was a recognised method at the time the ships were excavated, but as we now know, the wood material is weathering. Research on new methods of preservation and damage reduction is important. The research project Saving Oseberg has been awarded 40 million. kr since 2015 – and 5 million. kr in 2019. The process around this construction project has progressed as quickly as is sound in this type of project, from the design selection in 2013 to quality assurance in the autumn of 2018. An additional design and construction period for the project is estimated at 3 to 4 years. The ongoing responsibility for securing the collection is that of the University of Oslo, and I assume that they take this responsibility in a good way until the new building comes into place. State Building, Oslo University, Cultural History Museum and External Quality Assurers have carried out important preparatory work that has now been completed. It gives us a solid basis to decide on further progress. The construction project has an expected cost of up to 2 billion. kr. This is a significant investment, which it is natural to decide in the ordinary state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e1396	I thank you for the answer and understand that this is the Council of State concerned, but I wonder if she is serious enough. I remember a case in the evening post after the Granavolden platform was presented, where the Council of State, together with the Vice-Chancellor of the University of Oslo and the Director of the Cultural History Museum, cheered for the fact that they had finally decided to build – because it meant that hopefully they were able to get the extension built in place before the Viking ships, like Oseberg and Gokstad, collapsed. They believe that it is built that is the very central part of it. Therefore, the disappointment was very great as there was no money in the revised national budget. I have to ask the Council of State: does she believe in all the reports and statements from the professional institutions that it is a matter of putting in place, that it is actually insensitive to the Viking ships? Does she believe in that situational description – or does she not?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e1403	Let me first start by saying that the joy was great when the Viking Museum was lifted up in the Granavolden platform as one of the few buildings there. However, nothing was said about when or in which budget money was to be allocated. But it's clear that this is a situation that we're following, and that there's reason to take it seriously. As the representative says, securing the ships is about getting a new building in place. Today's construction is calculated for 40000 visitors per year, but it accepts approx. 500,000. And in the summer months that we now go into, it's about. 100,000 a month, after what I understand. It is clear that our ships are characterized by the shaking, the temperature fluctuations and the dust that all these visitors carry. A new building will make the ships completely different, and we will also be able to increase the number of visitors this year to approx. 800,000.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e1410	Thanks for the answer. I record that the Council of State is as busy as I am that the rest of the world is occupied with our Viking ships. Now we're actually in a situation where we're at risk of being nominated in a embarrassing nomination for Europe's seven most vulnerable cultural memories. The ancient memory association, Norway's Cultural Heritage, Norwegian Association for the Protection of Vessels, Norwegian Archaeological Society and many other organisations support it because they are afraid of the Viking ships. They believe that the government and we politicians do not understand the seriousness. That's why they want the world community on track. Now that we have a government that spends a lot of our oil money on record, but is unable to find money in the revised national budget for something as important to the Nordics and the world as the Viking ships, can we expect that it will take many years before construction starts on this potty project – or can we be sure that construction will start at least in 2020?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e1415	Our Viking ships are a fantastic cultural heritage, and Viking times are an important part of our history. It's also part of our history that gets a lot of attention — not only nationally, but also internationally. You have an enormous interest in that period in our history, and the museum also experiences it through all the visits they get. I think it's only positive that so many are committed to our common heritage, that so many are on the path, and that so many are concerned that we should preserve that heritage in a good way, and I credit on every good initiative. As I said in my previous post, the government has lifted it up in the Granavolden platform. We have said that we should start the construction of a new weighting time museum, but we haven't fixed the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e1425	‘In 2015, it was decided to establish a specialised school at the Norwegian Fire School in the municipality of Tjeldsund. More than four years after the promise of establishment, we do not know when the school can accept students, educational buildings are missing, and the furniture is impossible for local and local businesses to plan. The frustration among many firefighters in Norway that vocational school education is not going on is great, and was recently expressed in TV2. What is due to the lack of progress, and who is responsible for the fact that start-up is in the blue?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e1432	The government will strengthen fire education, and in the state budgets for 2017, 2018 and 2019, funds are provided for the establishment of a new two-year vocational school for the training of fire and rescue personnel at the Norwegian Fire School at Fjelldal in the municipality of Tjeldsund. The Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness, in its work of setting up a new vocational school, has had a goal of starting up a vocational school in the autumn of 2019. As the representative was briefed in 2018, it has not been possible because the necessary infrastructure cannot be in place by that time. When the vocational school is fully operational, it is planned to take 160 students annually. There will be 240 students present in Teldsund at the same time, while 80 students will at any time be out in practice in a fire and rescue service. It is necessary to ensure that educational establishments have educational buildings and facilities adapted to the future number of students and employees at school. Appropriate premises and infrastructure are also important prerequisites for the recognition of the training of NOCUT, the national body for quality in education. The vocational school will use existing premises and infrastructure in Norway's fire school. In addition, there are, among other things: the need to build a new educational building, a new fire station and a new canteen. There is also a need to upgrade today's training fields and associated training objects at the fire department. The work on infrastructure will follow the guidelines for state-owned construction projects and State Building was commissioned in 2018 to implement a project clearance phase. This phase ended in February this year. State buildings are now in the process of implementing a so-called pre-project, the further establishment of which will depend on the annual budgetary processes. This means that the exact progress plan and start-up time for new post-secondary schools cannot be fixed at this stage. I would also like to stress here that the consideration of good cost control and a qualitatively good technical school must be heavier than the consideration of the time of start-up. I would also like to remind the representative that, in the context of the re-balancing of the 2018 budget, the government briefed the Stortinget that the costs of implementing new infrastructure projects will not be incurred until 2019. The Government therefore proposed to reduce the allocation to DSB by 13.3 million. kr in 2018, and the Stortinget agreed to this. On 14 May 2019, the Government submitted proposals for the revised national budget for 2019 and proposes to re-finance the 13.3 million. kr for the implementation of the pilot project.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e1449	The need for vocational training for firefighters was made clear in a 2012 NOU from a government-appointed selection. In February 2015, the decision to start the post-secondary vocational education programme was taken by the government of Solberg I, and the same year, the DSB received a letter of assignment asking them to draw up a progress plan with dates for milestones and budgets for implementation. It was delivered in July 2015, and the planning was due early in 2017. The municipality of Tjeldsund and the country's fire crew have been suggested to start only in 2018, so in 2019. The municipality has tried to start planning for the construction of furniture for these 240 students, among others. together with private providers. Can the Minister explain why it took as long as 2018 before Statsbygg was commissioned to plan the need for the infrastructure needed to open the technical school in Tjeldsund?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e1458	The Stortinget was informed for the first time in November 2015 that the exact starting time for the vocational school could not be fixed. There was an answer to Question No 184 to a written answer from Eirik Sivertsen. This was last repeated in April 2018, in response to question No. 1302 for a written answer, from the Grandfather Åsunn Lyngedal. Funds for the establishment of new technical schools were first set aside in the State budget for 2017, and funds were also earmarked for establishment in the state budgets for 2018 and 2019. The work on new infrastructure will follow the guidelines for state construction projects, and State Building, as I mentioned earlier, was commissioned in 2018 to implement a project clearance phase.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e1465	Yes, the fire school in Teldsund has been the topic many times. In November 2015, Anna Ljunggren called for progress and received a response from Anundsen that the project was under way and that it was to end in the autumn of 2016. I asked for a progress plan in April last year, and got a response on 18 April 2018 that a pre-project was under way, but it was not possible to fix the time. Teldsund municipality is a relatively small municipality, and many people need clarification. We record that funds earmarked for 2018 will be remitted to 2019. Does the Minister understand that there are doubts about the genuine desire of the government and whether this is the necessary progress to establish a technical school for firefighters in Teldensund?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e1474	I am very pleased with the questions, and I am pleased that the representative is also eager to operate a professional training course for fire and rescue personnel in Norway. As Minister of Social Security, I can promise the representative that I work for that as well. It is important to note that on 14 May 2019 we presented proposals for the revised national budget and therefore proposed re-allocation of funds that we did not spend in previous years, exactly the same amount, 13.3 million. kr. I would also like to inform you that in the phase when we were working on the new infrastructure, there was a survey of contaminated land. We're busy doing this in a good way. I think it's important that we get a good technical school that's properly composed with the content we actually need, rather than quickly finishing.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e1492	This question must be removed, as I cannot see that the representative is present.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-22.ana.ud283e1506	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
