ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-15.ana.ud433e44	The representatives of Himanshu Gulati, Karin Andersen, Espen Barth Eide, Petter Eide, Arild Grande, Linda C. Hofstad Helleland and Ingerd Schou, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. The following called alternates are now taking their seat: For Akershus: Mani Hussaini For Hordaland: Sigurd Hille and Toril Selsvold Nyborg For Nord-Trøndelag: Bjørn Arild Gram Two permit applications are available: by the Green Group in the Greens/European Parliament on sick leave for the representative of Une Bastholm from 14 to 15. October by the Workers' Group on the Permit of the Representative Eirik Sivertsen on 15 and 16 October in charge of the Delegation for Arctic Parliamentary Cooperation, to attend a conference in Moscow under the direction of the Northern Region Centre These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The following alternates are proposed to meet during the leave period: For Northern Ireland: Kjell-Idar Juvik For Oslo: Per Espen Stoknes – It is also considered to be adopted. Kjell-Idar Juvik is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-15.ana.ud433e126	The President will state that there will be voting immediately after the cases. 1-3, and that case no. 5, Unit, moved and dealt with after voting in case No. 1 to 3. The President therefore asks the representatives to remain in office after the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-15.ana.ud433e144	The matter being dealt with here has not been outside the regulatory period, i.e. 48 hours. On the basis of Rule 46 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the Stortinget should nevertheless deal with this matter now. No objection has been raised against the President's proposal. – It is then deemed to have been adopted. No one has asked to speak on the matter either.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-15.ana.ud433e165	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-15.ana.ud433e182	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-15.ana.ud433e8093	The Presidency had set the Storting to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-15.ana.ud433e8113	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-15.ana.ud433e8314	The size is then ready to move forward on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-15.ana.ud433e8332	In 2015, the last migration crisis started, when the whole of Europe, including us in Norway, got the refugee problem close. Only from the eastern Mediterranean route, from Turkey to Greece, increased the number of people coming from 85 000 to 885,000 in just one year. Europe and the world were not prepared. Norway was not prepared. Those who believe that the world's refugee problem is over have to think about it. The number of refugees is increasing – there are over 70 million in the world, and 29.4 million of them are recognised as refugees. What's now happening in northern Syria makes us all worried. The security policy situation is serious. Syria has unfortunately become a melting pot where the whole world's power struggle is taken out. Those who suffer are the Syrian people, regardless of ethnicity. The situation in northern Syria and Turkey also shows that the refugee problem is still real. A president threatens Europe with 3.6 million acids – that is the world we live in. I am not going to turn this interpellation into a security policy debate as a result of recent developments. The purpose of this interpellation, which was delivered several months ago, is that we have to understand the time we are in. This is about our shared international responsibility for people on the run, but also about the interests of Europe and Norway. It's about setting up a comprehensive refugee policy. It's about how we use resources so that we have the best refugee policy. Almost 90 pst. of the refugees in the world live in the neighbourhoods of the conflicts from which they have fled, in the country of destination. It's in these countries the great majority is going to live. This year the Municipal and Administrative Committee visited Jordan and Lebanon. We can talk about the refugee crisis in Europe, but it is in these countries that the actual crisis is. Lebanon and Jordan have accepted over 2 million Syrian refugees, Turkey 3.6 million Syrian refugees. Irrespective of the debate here at home on how many we are going to accept, no one can underestimate the following reality: The most important effort we can make if we want to give more refugees a decent life is to set up for these countries. Nor is it the case that everyone wants to go to Europe. Many will return to their homeland; many will be in the vicinity. During our visit to Lebanon, we visited the Bekaa Valley – small tents, lack of sanitary facilities, flooding and dams everywhere. Here we got into a family with mother and three children. The father had been killed in the war in Syria. They had been given the opportunity to become quota refugees, but accepted no in the beginning. Their dream was to travel back. It's hard to live in the Bekaa Valley, and it was obvious that the oldest son had to work to help mother instead of taking education. It's about roofing over the head, food, water, health and education — yes, in many ways emergency help. I know that Norway has historically contributed there. But we also have to think bigger. We must actively seek projects that give refugees the opportunity to work, to be able to support themselves and their families. It's about giving hundreds of thousands of refugees hope for the future. These countries need help. We are talking about countries with major economic challenges and little natural resources, and they are asking for help from countries like Norway. If they collapse, the most stable countries collapse in a region with too many conflicts from before. It means disaster for the world and also for millions of refugees. The whole of Europe was shaken by a wave of migration resulting from the collapse of stable countries. We all saw in 2015 that the asylum and refugee policy of both Europe and Norway is not sustainable or fair: the death route across the Mediterranean, the world's deadliest border crossing and many countries that spent great financial resources returning those who did not really need protection, at the expense of helping the real refugees in the world. This means that refugee policy is also aid and development work, long-term work, creating jobs and giving refugees the opportunity to work in beneficiary countries. This means that refugee policy must also be given greater attention to development. It's not about buying out, it's about seeing the realities and actually would help the most possible refugees in the world. Then some countries have to show their way. Trygve Bratteli in his time launched the propriety goal, and I am proud to belong to a party that has been at the forefront of Norway being a humanitarian act. Norway can show the way. Should that be possible, it must be obligatory. It is not difficult to understand that recipient countries which themselves face major economic challenges and face unemployment do not automatically open up local labour markets. But if they know that we provide resources for both the individual country, the inhabitants and the refugees, that will be possible. It is about contributing to economic growth in these countries and providing local jobs both for their own inhabitants and for the refugees they live in. That is why my question to the Council of State is: what does the government do, and what initiative will it take to ensure that we do more for the beneficiary countries than we do today?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-15.ana.ud433e8355	I would like to thank the representative of Gharahkhani for a good and timely response. As the Storting suspended its treatment from the spring session to the harvest session, we have also received updated figures from UNHCR. It's not a nice reading. Globally, a total of 70.8 million have been displaced from their homes. 25.9 million of them are refugees who have fled across borders, 3.5 million are asylum seekers, and 41.3 million are internally displaced in their own country. It is important to promote protection and sustainable solutions also for internally displaced persons. Norway has a leading role in this area in the United Nations, and now, using 56 other countries, we have initiated a high-level panel on internal displacement, and it will be appointed by the Secretary-General of the United Nations in the near future. If we look at the numbers, we have 84 pst. of the world's refugees today in developing countries. 80 pst. is in neighbouring country. More than two thirds, 67 p.m., of the world’s refugees come from five countries – Syria, Afghanistan, South Sudan, Myanmar and Somalia. The representative of Gharakhani asks: What is Norway doing, and what initiatives are we taking? Let me draw out four areas of action. Firstly, we are implementing the new humanitarian strategy that the government put in place last autumn. Overall priority is given to dealing with refugee situations. A comprehensive effort in this area means, among other things. that we contribute to the protection and humanitarian assistance of both refugees and the population of the often very poor host communities to which the refugees come. This could be done, for example, by: are measures to protect against sexualised and gender-based violence and protection against land mines and other explosives, which are two key Norwegian initiatives. There may also be measures to meet basic humanitarian needs, such as access to water, food, shelter and healthcare. An overall refugee response also means that, where possible, we contribute to an interaction between humanitarian efforts and more long-term support for development. In particular, education has an important priority in this context. When we announced in 2016 that Norway would contribute 10 billion. Four years to the international response to the Syria crisis, we put access to training for refugees in the region high on the agenda. We've switched off 15 pst. of this amount of education, and it is, as far as I know, higher than any other country has done in its response. By the end of the year, we've fulfilled our 10 billion pledge. kr. The Norwegian leadership of education has maintained and is to be continued. Support for the host countries of Lebanon and Jordan is important in this way, and I will come back to it. In long-term crises, such as: The Syria crisis, we also support employment measures. The employment of refugees in Syria’s neighbouring country has been a central theme in the last few years of the international Syria conferences, where Norway has been the co-organizer of several. It has also been important in the dialogue with the host country’s authorities on, inter alia, work permits. Refugee response is a central part of Norway’s humanitarian budget, and that budget has now increased to 5.5 billion. kr. That's an increase of 68 pst. Since 2013, and it says something about the fact that the humanitarian needs of the world are unfortunately only increasing. Refugee responses apply not only in Syria’s neighbouring country, but also in neighbouring countries to other major humanitarian crises that have forced people to flee, for example. the crisis in South Sudan and for the rowingya as refugees to Bangladesh. Fortunately, the UN High Commissioner for Refugees is an important humanitarian partner in this area, and the UNHCR is leading the international effort to protect and seek lasting solutions for refugees in the form of return, resettlement or integration. Norway is supporting the global refugee platform adopted by the UN General Assembly last year. It acknowledges the great efforts made by host countries to support refugees and their need to support the management of large refugee populations while at the same time succeeding in achieving the sustainability goals. We're a great giver to UNHCR. We're going to get 380 million. This year's core support is proposed for the next year's budget. In addition, the earmarked support comes in different countries’ situations. Overall, we supported UNHCR in 2018 with 786 million. kr. Refugee aid is another major partner in this area, and many of the other humanitarian organisations we support are also working to protect and assist those who are displaced in their own country or across national borders, and the local population who receive it. Secondly, Norway contributes stabilisation funds to support local and national authorities in vulnerable countries hosting large refugee populations. The government has proposed to grant more than 835 million in the budget. to stabilisation of countries in crisis and conflict. That's an increase of almost 130 million. Compared to last year and in line with one of the main priorities of the government strategic framework for Norwegian efforts in vulnerable countries and regions. Support above this item is directed towards measures to promote stability, prevent conflict, reduce vulnerability and build local resilience. In addition, part of the aid is used to counteract migratory conditions. In 2017, the government launched a strategic framework for Norwegian efforts in vulnerable countries and regions, and the aim is to contribute to the ability of countries and regions to provide their own security and development. Two concrete examples of our efforts in vulnerable countries are the launch of a separate strategy for Norwegian action in Sahel, and the adoption of a separate partner country initiative in 2018, one of the partner countries being partners for stabilisation and conflict prevention. There are examples of Afghanistan, Palestine, Mali, Niger, Somalia and South Sudan. By 2030, according to World Bank forecasts, half of the world's poorest will live in vulnerable countries and regions. They are often characterised by weak state institutions, widespread discrimination and marginalisation of population groups, abuses by both state and non-state actors and lack of legal protection for the population. There may be actors, regional and local, who are countering stability — either because of corruption or crime. Better governance and respect for human rights prevent conflict and are important for long-term stability, but it takes time to put in place. Cross-border threats such as organised crime and violent extremism exploit the lack of territorial control, undermine attempts to build a legal state and reinforce corruption. The civilian population is hit hardest. The increase in the post this year will mainly go to Syrian refugees and their host communities in Lebanon and Jordan. The initiative shall contribute to meeting the need for longer-term support. The support will be gradually turned from humanitarian aid to stabilisation and will strengthen the capacity of the Lebanese and Jordanian authorities to deal with the long-term presence of Syrian refugees. The government also continues to give priority to measures that strengthen stabilisation in Iraq in previously under IS. This is done to allow several internal refugees to return gradually, and it is to prevent IS from recovering footholds. A third area is Norway’s participation in international cooperation to address the global migration challenges. The large number of refugees and migrants travelling across the Mediterranean to Europe in 2015 was behind the establishment of an EU Multi-stakeholder Fund for Stability and Response to Irregular Migration in Africa – the EUTF. This happened at the Valletta Summit with European and African countries, where the Prime Minister also took part. Since the creation of the MIF, Norway has contributed 200 million. kr. Here, we work closely with other European countries to reduce the underlying causes of migration, such as climate change, poverty, poor governance and lack of income. Job creation, vocational training and conflict prevention and stabilisation measures are among the main priorities of the Fund. Actions that strengthen the African country’s own ability to manage migration and refugees are also a priority, and the Fund has contributed to increased cooperation with countries of origin and transit in the management of migration and refugee crises. The funds are allocated to the Sahel and Chad Sea regions, North Africa and the Horn of Africa. The Government wants Norway to continue to contribute if this type of fund continues after the phase-out in 2020. In this respect, I would also like to stress that we are providing core support to the IOM, the International Organization for Migration. Finally, I would like to highlight more generally the government's development policy and the pursuit of sustainability objectives as a fourth priority. It is of great importance to developing countries that are home to many refugees. And again, I want to mention education. With the sustainability objectives, we have committed ourselves to ensuring access to quality education for all. Of course, this also applies to children and young people who are on the run. Half of the world's refugees are under 18 years of age, and for refugees, schooling can provide protection, knowledge and hope for a better future. Government is stepping up this year's support for the Fund for Education in Crisis, Education Cannot Wait, significantly. Over four years, we will contribute 0.5 billion. to this fund, to which Norway was among the initiators. Education Cannot Wait has so far contributed education to more than 1.4 million children and young people, and many of them are refugees and internally displaced.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-15.ana.ud433e8397	I want to thank you for the answer and for the foreign minister's commitment – I see it is sincere. The Labour Party is the only party that has actually gone through Norway's asylum and refugee policy, and I believe that that policy also makes Norway equipped to manage new migratory and refugee flows that will come. Unfortunately, we live in a world where we see changes coming quite quickly, and therefore our policy is based on two important foundations. One is that the most important thing we have to do is set up for the recipient countries and the neighbourhoods, and that it is the line of work that should apply. The other concerns fewer asylum seekers at the border and the relief of countries of destination by accepting some quota refugees. It is possible to take some radical steps here at home, but if we are to succeed in general, we need more international cooperation – therefore this interpellation. What worries me is whether we actually have a government going in the same direction. I believe that more than many other areas of refugee policy require as much cross-political agreement as possible. While the Workers' Party has been engaged in putting in place a solidarity pot that is committed to the recipient country, with a device and with the recording and contact with the renowned expert Collier, who worked with the Jordan Compact, who has made sure that hundreds of thousands of acids have received a work permit in Jordan, we unfortunately see that the government is arguing widely about everything in refugee policy. It peaked when the Progress Party believed that they had been able to enforce the demand for return agreements in the aid policy, which the Minister for Development rejected minutes later, and we are not entering into international cooperation with threatening other countries. If we are to succeed in helping more people, controlling the border and making refugee policy fairer, we are dependent on international agreements based on trust and desire to contribute. Then they all have to go in the same direction. We then need a proactive government working with our Nordic friends, joint efforts for beneficiary countries where the work line is at the head, and with Europe and the transit countries to be prepared to deal with new inflows that may occur. What concerns me, too, is that it is very good to do, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs has also been involved, but when I talk to the development actors who are working on job creation, nutrition growth, economic growth, they say that this is one of the weakest development aid budgets of the time, because it is precisely cut off in the projects that are going to create local jobs, which are important for the inhabitants of those areas, important for the refugees who live there, and important also in order to prevent new migratory flows that may occur.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-15.ana.ud433e8406	Towards the end of the second round here, we were over to something that really wasn't part of the interpellation, but I'm still going to give some input into it. Firstly, the representative of Gharahkhani is quite right that the changes are coming quickly. I think we need to be prepared for the fact that, as the humanitarian situation looks many places in the world now, we will be able to experience new flows of migrants, both because political and humanitarian conditions change rapidly and negatively, and because we are increasingly seeing that, among other things. climate change is an important driver of both conflict and migration. It is crucial to address countries of destination, and so does Norway. That's why we have the strong effort we have in humanitarian action – a budget that has increased by 68 pst. Since 2013 – and that is also why we are, of course, increasing our budgets to particularly vulnerable countries and regions, which are in the middle of managing large refugee populations. But we can't be satisfied with just working there; we also have to work normatively, especially in the case of internally displaced people, which is the largest proportion of those who are on the run. They never cross borders, but there is also one reason why they lack many of the rights of refugees. It is a challenge we have to deal with in cooperation with other countries, which means that this group of refugees too can get a better life. The government has been very clear on the need for pan-European solutions and cooperation. That's also why we've been actively involved in all forums where we've either been invited or already have a place to find pan-European solutions to the migration challenge. It is too complex and too large to allow any European country — or any other country — to solve it alone. At the same time, we need to be aware that very much of the migration in the world is going to the immediate neighbouring countries, which also need stabilisation, and which also need to be able to handle a large refugee population. Focusing on, for example: job creation and economic development are at the heart of Norwegian development policy. There is an overall need for us to take on board the fact that driving business development and job creation is an important aid to self-help for many countries, and that is also a very crucial point to be able to accept refugees from neighbouring countries. The fact that many countries have opened their borders to refugees from their neighbouring countries in different large or smaller situations is something that also deserves attention from us, and that is also why it is a great priority for the government to support countries and regions where refugee flows are large and where we can contribute in different ways together with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-15.ana.ud433e8421	It is essential to give more refugees a decent life. As the representative Gharakhani writes in the interview, it's about the roof over the head, food, water, health and education of the most vulnerable among us, but also projects that give refugees the opportunity to work – being able to support themselves and their families. It's about giving people hope for the future. Countries with huge refugee camps are asking for more help from countries such as Norway. If they collapse, the most stable countries collapse in a region with too many conflicts. It means disaster for the world and for millions of refugees. In February, the municipal committee was traveling in the Middle East. Travel made impressions, many of us put back with violent impressions and feelings like powerlessness – how can we help millions flee without hope of a future for themselves and theirs? The journey also made an impression on the Progress Party and the representative Kari Kjöna Kjos. She proposed in the media after the trip to make it easier for refugees in Lebanon to return to their homeland Syria by giving them initial capital. She proposed in the media to take money from the aid budget to finance the action, and she said: ‘Today, we use a lot of help to keep people alive in refugee camps. Instead, we could spend more money taking them back to our home country." Where did this measure come from? The Progress Party boasts that they are leading the government's policy development in this field. I wonder if they will be able to take advantage of their own proposals in the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-15.ana.ud433e8435	I would like to thank the interpellant for the opportunity to discuss this important and big question. It is also time for us to start discussing refugees, both the humanitarian situation, which is acute for many who are in refugee camps, which is maritime when refugees are on the move, and also the way Norway assesses the security policy challenges associated with the fact that neighbourhoods and poor countries are facing as great a burden as they actually are today. We're discussing that very little. We also discuss this very little when we discuss our own return policy, for example. within Schengen, when Norway returns asylum seekers to Greece, which is clearly on its knees economically, and where the situation of refugees in the refugee camps in Greece – in Europe – is critical, both humanitarian and in terms of security in the camps and conditions around it. Nor is it certain that it is best for Afghanistan that Norway returns as much as possible involuntarily when it is in crisis. The Committee was in Lebanon and Jordan in winter, several mentioned. The situation is precarious not only for the Syrians but also for the Palestinians. For generations, they have been refugees in Jordan and Lebanon, with the heavy burdens on neighbouring countries. I wonder sometimes a little about the Norwegian debate when we saw clearly in 2015 that we were not offered the relatively limited number that came to Norway then, when we see what kind of burdens we put on land, and clearly also believe that they should accept even more than they do today. It is not particularly easier in Lebanon or Jordan to explain why, for example: shall grant work permits to refugees when their own population is unemployed. We have to understand that there are huge conflicts there too. The mixture of aid and aid and return agreements with which the Norwegian Government is carrying out – because they do, it says in this budget as well – believes that we must conclude, also because we provide assistance to countries to which the Minister for Foreign Affairs has correctly referred, lack of internal security, lack of legal certainty and lack of protection of the people we return. That is why we are giving them assistance, and then we cannot take them as a hostage to the policy that they must accept people whom we return to them. We can then just undermine the safety of these agreements. The Minister of Foreign Affairs also mentioned the UNHCR, which is the United Nations organization, where we are going to try to solve these problems together. Here we are totally dependent on all countries cooperating. Then the first thing Norway should do, to respect what the United Nations and UNHCR say to us. And what they're saying to us is clear speech: give more help in the neighbourhoods. – I guess that's in the area where the government delivers the best. The second is: accept more quota refugees. The reality of the camps is that many people lack fundamental security. It could be converts, it could be gay, it could be women, and it could be political refugees. There is zero security in the camps, and one is totally dependent on taking them out, both for the load in the neighbourhoods and for the actual security situation of those concerned. Norway could have done more. We could at least accept the 5,000 that UNHCR has asked of us. The second is that we should resume our cooperation with Greece to accept some of the asylum seekers who are now sitting there, in camps where conditions are terrible, and I am absolutely sure that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is aware of that. In addition, we should reintroduce the reasonableness condition for internal returns. The UN has also asked us to do so. It is important that Norway supports what the United Nations and UNHCR ask us to do. That is what can strengthen this cooperation: that countries are actually dealing with the requests that come from the multilateral system.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-15.ana.ud433e8452	For the Christian People's Party, it has always been important for Norway to be a nation that stands up for the poor and persecuted. It results from our commitment to values like human dignity and justice – values that build good societies. Humanitarian efforts have long followed modern Norway. Peacekeeper Nansen's assistance to refugees has gradually become a proud Norwegian tradition and inspiration. We have to be an inciter to humanitarian aid. International development cooperation is also a priority area for the Christian People's Party in today's government cooperation. The representative of Gharahkhani raises a burning question. There have been no more people since World War II. The conflict in Syria has driven millions of people away. The war in the border areas against Turkey is increasing the humanitarian crisis and can give new room for IS and other Islamic terrorist groups. But the challenges are also great in many other places, as we have also heard in this debate: among the victims of the conflict in Yemen, among despairing rowingyas in Myanmar and Bangladesh, and in the refugee flows from crisis-affected communities in Africa. This primarily requires emergency assistance and well-functioning refugee camps with roof over their heads, food, good sanitation and protection. Norway plays an important and active role here. In the field, we have powerful humanitarian organisations. The Red Cross, the Refugee Aid, the Church's Emergency Aid and many more make a wonderful effort. But short-term crisis relief is not enough. We need to think about prevention, building peace, meeting climate challenges and strengthening preparedness for new crises – in short, building societies that prevent new disasters. That is why we must have a long-term perspective on aid. Development cooperation shall contribute to the building of sustainable economies, strong civil societies, state institutions and the ability to rule wisely and fairly. All people are entitled to education, health care and protection of their human rights. For us, this isn't about charity, it's about justice. Many poor countries are host to large refugee groups – for a long time. It is demanding to grant fundamental human rights to these refugees. Of course, we support that. However, modern assistance must also increasingly provide for the possibility of work and income for refugees. It will give hope for the future and a better life for them. For the Christian People's Party, it is always an objective to improve and streamline aid, including refugee aid. It is good that the government has raised the ambitions and increased the number of quota refugees to 3,000 per year. Norway will take its share of responsibility and not be of its own accord. But it will always be out there, in poor, vulnerable and in crisis areas, that the main effort needs to be made. That is why we are now strengthening the efforts of vulnerable groups and vulnerable countries. Together with good partners in developing countries, we can achieve lasting results among those of our fellow people who need it most. A well-known word is, "What you did to one of these little siblings, you have done to me." It commits in close relationships, but also in international relations.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-15.ana.ud433e8480	Thank you to the interpellant for addressing a very important topic, which should be discussed often. Thanks also to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for a thorough and complementary good answer. It's absolutely right that there are dark clouds on the horizon. I think the government sees them, too. It's been expressed. The situation in the Middle East is very demanding. We see that Turkey is willing to go far to achieve its goals. What is a major challenge for Europe is that, in reality, the asylum system and the asylum institute are used as a tool and weapon against Europe to ensure that their operations are carried out smoothly. It's a problem when Turkey threatens to send millions of refugees into Europe. We have to take that seriously. Then we will probably also have to take the following discussion in Norway and Europe: whether the institution of asylum has played its part and whether the system of seeking asylum on other continents, as it has now become, can be used to abuse the people who are now in Turkey and who want to go to Europe. We have also seen that too many people die trying to reach Europe – to achieve the goal of staying. We have to look at what others have done. In Australia, there has been the same challenge, with boat migrants, who experienced much the same fate. Many died, drowned, and were gone on the road. They said something about how Australia would deal with asylum applications, and managed to get the number of drownings down to zero by giving a clear signal that asylum applications could no longer be dealt with in that way. I think that's a situation that everyone will benefit from, if you dare to take that discussion – if you can remove Erdogan's and Turkey's threats of flooding Europe with refugees, by saying that we should not deal with it that way. That is why it is important – and the Workers' Party should have the honour to talk about secondary protection. There is also something the government has included in its government platform, because it is important not to give hope of permanent residence in Norway if such a situation is triggered by Heads of State, such as Turkey, who are on a number of mechanisms, which are a challenge and a threat to Europe. Then it is not that the Workers' Party is the only party that has gone through its immigration and integration policy. The truth is that other parties have done it many times, but only now has the Workers' Party done it – and then they think they're the only ones who have done it. That is absolutely not true. This is something the Progress Party has done regularly. We see time and again to our great joy that the Workers' Party, once they have gone through its policy, draws inspiration from the Advance Party. The problem is that you don't dare take this out completely. You actually have to choose how to help the best. I believe that Norway should have chosen to put all the efforts into the neighbourhoods. We see it works. It has been mentioned that the Committee has been travelling. What was especially true when the Committee was travelling in Lebanon and Jordan was that no one there – neither the authorities nor the refugees themselves nor the humanitarian organisations, except one, who was a Norwegian humanitarian organisation – asked Norway to receive more quota refugees. I am aware that the UNHCR does so in some letters sent to the authorities every year. But when you talk to those who are out in the field and those who are leaders in the different countries, that's not what you focus on. What you focus on is that you need stable, predictable finances to house the 760,000 Syrian refugees who are in Jordan. That's where the shoe presses. So the UNHCR has a problem with how to place all the quota refugees, but Norway has taken its responsibility. If we're going to continue spending money on a few here in Norway, you'll never be able to release any major funds for the many people who need it much more in the neighbourhoods of where there's war and conflict. That's why the Progress Party is going to work hard because it's where the effort is going to be put in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-15.ana.ud433e8495	I would like to thank you for an important debate. One of the reasons we promoted this interpellation is that there are often major discussions about asylum and what's at home, but then you forget the big picture, which is really about how we're going to deal with the most possible refugees in the world. In this context, I believe that there is still a good answer from the Minister of Foreign Affairs to what the government is now doing concretely in view of what is happening in the Middle East and major changes that can come quickly, and what Norway is taking on to manage the large migration flows, possibly the refugee flows, that are coming, where the red thread is still. How are we going to be able to set the best possible standards for the world's refugees? When it comes to the discussion that has been around humanitarian policy and development, I would like to say that it is good that Norway has historically been among the largest donors to the UN High Commissioner for Refugees. And that's good, the work we've done around education for refugees and for developing countries. Tanzania is a good example of this. It is also good that we have focused on vulnerable groups, such as children and women, in crisis situations, but in addition to that, we need to think new, think long-term, think about development as part of refugee policy. Here I believe there is still a lot to be lacking in order to put the work line into place in that work. As we do at home when we talk about integration, we must actually also think about integration in the neighbourhoods. If you want to succeed in the neighbourhoods where the refugees are going to be, and how many are going to be maybe even for generations, we have to make sure they can support themselves and their families. We know that much is done in the EU, but also countries such as Germany and France have taken the initiative in many bilateral agreements. I think it is very strange – as the foreign minister has not commented on here either – when Norway chooses to cut significantly in the aid that has been being put into energy, for example. in Africa, what goes on capital injection to Norfund. This is an important step that can be taken together with business to ensure that we generate nutrition, economic growth and create jobs locally. There are therefore many actors in the aid world who have said that this is one of the weakest budgets they have seen. So it doesn't help to hold on to the way the Progress Party does. They're actually in government and have a responsibility, and I think the big challenge in today's government is that they can't hold the line, the red thread. There are many different tongues spoken, and it is not like being — apologies — high in the stick here in Norway is going to help set up new international agreements. It's actually about knowing which direction you're going to take, and standing together, just to get more countries involved in the solutions that make sure it's fairer and more sustainable for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-15.ana.ud433e8508	I would also like to thank you for the debate, even though parts of it were something different than how we are going to assist countries that accept large refugee populations in vulnerable situations, and more a question of how Norway accepts it. There is another debate, and it also falls under the constitutional responsibility of another Council of State. But let me bring up some of the themes that have come up. The first time vulnerable countries were expressed as part of the Norwegian aid budget was in the early 2000s. At that time, the idea was to meet the medium-term needs that were neither humanitarian aid nor long-term assistance. It's basically gone to what we can call vulnerable states. So from the first to cover the gap between the short-term and the long-term efforts, came after each purpose of supporting state-building in vulnerable states to avoid countries breaking down. And not least that stabilisation, and therefore also a national and regional security perspective, had come in, has been very leading in recent years. The question related to how we should handle, inter alia: Middle East: Here it's important to see more things in the context. One is what I have said we give of considerable support, whether it be the ten billion over four years to deal with the Syria crisis and not least the neighbouring countries of Jordan and Lebanon in particular – it is an increase in our humanitarian budget by 68 pst. in six years – or that we actually think of work as part of the refugee and development policy by working normatively to get work permits in place, and that job creation is an essential part of the help we provide in particular in vulnerable countries. We have also taken the initiative of this high-level panel on internally displaced persons, which we believe is an important effort to contribute to the protection of a very vulnerable and vulnerable group, which never crosses national borders, but which nevertheless is very vulnerable and lacks rights. But it's also about a bigger picture. Much of the effort we are making in relation to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict is taking place, among other things. on the maintenance of basic services for Palestinian refugees. They are also in Lebanon and Jordan. We work very closely with Jordan, among others. on the support to UNNRA, the UN Organisation for Palestine Refugees. Our strong concern about the cuts as, among other things. The United States has done, and we have clearly expressed our disagreement, about the situation in Gaza and the West Bank, but it is also about the situation of the many, many Palestinian refugees living in neighbouring countries, and the destabilising effect it may have, and that concern, among other things. Jordan now has many Palestinian, Syrian and other refugees, where they have limited opportunities, for example. to provide jobs and education. That is why we are now turning much of the support from humanitarian and more stabilisation into helping those countries to deal with their refugee population.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-15.ana.ud433e8522	The debate on substance is closed. 4 is over. Today's map has been processed successfully. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
