ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e62	The representative of Une Bastholm has applied for leave from 25 March to 29 March for reasons of well-being. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. Other alternates of Oslo, Kristoffer Robin Haug, are invited to meet during the leave period. The representative, Karin Andersen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e84	On behalf of the major representatives of Kari Elisabeth Kaski, Solfrid Lerbreck, Freddy André Øvstegård and myself, I would like to propose the necessary changes to the House Rental Act to ensure that social housing has rental prices that are difficult to pay and other reinforcements of social housing policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e89	The representative of the Bears Moxnes will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e94	On behalf of myself, I propose a green industrial revolution.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e99	The representative, Siv Mossleth, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e104	On behalf of Bengt Fasteraune, Martha Tärud, Nils T. Bjørke and myself, I would like to make a proposal to ensure that companies, such as bus companies, have to pay VAT from the first kroner traded in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e109	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting continues, if necessary, beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e127	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Right 25 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Green Party 5 minutes and Red 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be up to six lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e140	I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a good and broad presentation. I particularly noticed the reference to former Foreign Minister Knut Frydenlund and his talking book title: A better organized world. It was published the same year as his too early death, in 1987, and it was a collection of speeches and articles edited by Thorvald Stoltenberg. Working for a better organized world remains in Norwegian self-interest. It concerns the relationship with our international agreements and the organisations we should work today to strengthen. Retirement is not in Norway’s interest. Unpredictability and several international conflicts demand that we do not undermine fundamental interests and obligations, whether NATO, the EEA or the UN. 308 votes to 312: Last night, a small majority in the British House of Commons rejected the concept of a so-called ‘hard brexit’, a divorce from the EU without an agreement. However, the clock ticks against the brexit date of 29 March. Tonight, the House of Commons is expected to vote on asking the rest of the EU to postpone the Brexit date. Former powers also need an orderly relationship with the outside world, not least their closest neighbours – a better organized world. The EEA Agreement regulates Norway's relationship with the EU. We mustn't shake it. This does not mean that we should not challenge the EU system when we disagree, but actively looking for alternatives now will be risky. The EEA Agreement has served Norway well in total. The Foreign Minister drew a picture of the foreign policy turmoil we are experiencing today, and that it is due to the contrast to the widespread optimism that prevailed in the 1990s, when both she and I were active in youth policy, she is the leader of the Young Right and I as the head of the AUF. That time it was optimism. It is possible that there is a proper analysis she comes with, but there are also exceptions. For Ethiopia, the future looks much brighter in 2019 than in 1999. Ethiopia, the only country in Africa that was never colonized, was the last in the newsprint here at home because of the tragic plane crash outside Addis Ababa last Sunday. Norway’s Red Cross and several humanitarian organisations were directly affected. In the midst of the tragedy, this is also a move today – events far from Norway hit us harshly and brutally. Between 1998 and 2000, there was a bloody border war between the two neighbouring countries of Ethiopia and Eritrea. During the two decades that followed, the situation was very tense. Numerous human and financial resources were tied up in upgrading and military services, not least in Eritrea. But on the summer last year finally came the breakthrough. A peace agreement was signed, the borders were opened, and families were reunited. Peace is still fragile. As so many other places in the world are not the signing of a peace agreement sentence for a peace process – the peace agreement is the start of new and very demanding processes. Much remains to be done to improve the democratic and human rights situation in both Eritrea and Ethiopia, although in recent years Ethiopia has also seen great progress in this area. Several thousand political prisoners have now been released. Here again in Europe, fundamental values of democracy and human rights are under pressure – in Europe, our continent. We can no longer take for granted that all EU Member States respect these basic values of modern European co-existence and cooperation. The Freedom House organisation publishes a global survey of democracy and political freedom every year. All countries of the world are categorised either as free, partially free or unfree. In the 2019 recent report, the EU country of Hungary has been degraded from ‘free’ to ‘partially free’. Yes, democracy in the world is unfortunately in decline. In the world today, there are more people living ashore with authoritarian tendencies than in countries experiencing democratic progress. Many authoritarian regimes allow more or less free and democratic elections to be held. But choices are often used to strengthen authoritarian leaders, because competition for power is not real. Many of these regimes are often characterised by pressure, harassment and direct persecution by two social institutions in particular: the media and the courts. I therefore believe that effective democracy and human rights work in 2019 should be less effective than before only in helping to make elections, but more about supporting and strengthening these two key institutions in well-functioning democracies: free media and independent courts. In my view, this work needs to be strengthened in the years to come. The effect of democratic work is always difficult to measure, but it is in any case a fact that today's Minister of Defence in Northern Macedonia, Radmila Sekerinska, participated in a longer summer course on democracy in the Utah under the auspices of the AUF in the 1990s. Young Right, who led the Foreign Minister as I led the AUF, was engaged in exactly the same way. Young politicians from young democracies came to Norway and received training from our youth organisations. Today, Sekerinska is a member of a government that has finally found a solution to the name dispute with neighbouring Greece. Courageous leaders in both Skopje and Athens have overcome conservative and nationalistic counterpowers. North Macedonia and the Minister of Defence of the country are now on the threshold of membership of NATO. In a neighborhood or a branch, you should have a good and open relationship with all your neighbors. However, the most important neighbouring relationships are between the direct neighbours, the ones you share a fence with. Russia is not just a country in our neighbourhood; Russia is our neighbor. We share the border – extended by two kilometres to exactly 197.7 kilometers after last year’s border – and we share, not least, a carefully negotiated border with the Barents Sea. It is in Norway’s interest to maintain continuous communication and contact with Russia, even in difficult times. Our neighbourhood to Russia must be based on both firmness, predictability and clarity – and on transparency, constructive dialogue and practical cooperation. We must join our allies and European partners in meeting violations of international law. At the same time, we need to stem from the cooperation in the north that has contributed to low voltage in the northern regions, not least through people-to-people cooperation. It would only be lacking if Russian representatives were not invited to the 75th anniversary of the Red Army's release of East Finland. At the same time, we should not forget that Russia was just half of the Soviet Union – the Red Army consisted of, among other things. Ukrainians, unscrupulous people and people from Kazakhstan. Last year's presentation debate allowed me to encourage the Minister of Foreign Affairs to find space in his calendar to visit our largest neighbouring country. I'm glad that now, after a year and a half in the Ministerial chair, she plans to visit St. Petersburg in April. I note that the presentation was more focused on contact and cooperation with Russia. It's positive. Contact and dialogue must never be synonymous with weakness. One of the questions I expect the government to take up with the responsible authorities in Russia is the incidents we've seen in the last few months of disrupting GPS signals performed with electronic noise signals from Russian territory. The Minister of Foreign Affairs refers to these events as ‘unacceptable’. This type of GPS interference against civil aviation in Northern Norwegian winter weather is both irresponsible and dangerous. It can hit our rescue service and our civilian preparedness. It's a totally unacceptable act from a neighbor. In Hebron, the largest city in the West Bank, Einar Aas is now unpacking from the office. He became on the 16th and last in the line of the Norwegian TIPH Head of Forces. In meeting the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, we must be able to distinguish between the Jews of the world, the State of Israel and the Government of Netanyahu. Antisemitism is totally unacceptable. A general boycott of Israel is not a sensible policy. Israel has a perfectly legitimate security need. And there are good reasons to criticise the Palestinians, for example. that no choice has been made since 2005. This government claims to be pursuing a balanced Middle East policy. But last October, Netanyahu's government, for the first time since 2002, decided to expand the illegal settlements in the centre of Hebron. And last December, Israeli media reported on increasing pressure in Netanyahu's government to make serious of previous threats of throwing out the TIPH observers from Hebron. Of course, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Foreign Affairs were informed about this. Nevertheless, at Granavolden, a government platform was negotiated that Harald Stanghelle has precisely summed up as a «solid shoulder clapping to Benjamin Netanyahu uncompromising Israel». The government platform’s special emphasis on Netanyahu’s Israel was not just unusually bad timing – it was an expression of unwise and unbalanced Norwegian foreign policy. For almost 80 years, we've been living with the nuclear threat. Fortunately, in recent decades, a network of various disarmament agreements has helped to reduce the nuclear threat, a clear expression of Knut Frydenlund’s ‘better organised world’. Unfortunately, we have to note today that nuclear weapons once again play a greater role in international security policy: in Iran, in North Korea and between India and Pakistan. And the important disarmament agreements are broken, some are confused, said up. Negotiations and diplomacy with North Korea are a far better option than threats and upgrading. But the Trump administration's attempt to establish a nuclear agreement with North Korea is undermined by the same administration's termination of the nuclear agreement with Iran. When the world around us changes, we need to adjust our foreign policy. Today, it is imperative to intensify Norwegian disarmament policy. In concrete terms, a more active disarmament policy, for example: that Norway must now work internally in NATO to ensure that the termination of the INF Agreement on medium-range rockets does not entail a new armament spiral, with the deployment of new missiles and weapon systems in Europe. And inside NATO, we must work to reduce the role of nuclear weapons in NATO's defence concepts. A more active disarmament policy is about once again putting the spotlight on and documenting the humanitarian consequences of nuclear weapons. And it's about increasing efforts to preserve the disarmament agreements we actually have today: the non-proliferation agreement NPT, the nuclear agreement with Iran and the START agreement between the United States and Russia when it expires in February 2021. Norway cannot do everything. But we can and should contribute to the work of a better organized world and a safer world.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e209	Like previous speakers, I would like to express my deep satisfaction with the statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I noticed that the opposition's leadership in foreign policy matters had to go all the way to Hebron to find something to criticize the government's foreign policy, and I think that's excellent. It is also a strength for a small country that we can have broad and coherent analyses and actions. This statement is marked by the fact that Norway is facing a more difficult environment for foreign and security policy. The world has become less predictable. Russia threatens and undermines by various means the European security architecture and democratic processes of other countries. China is emerging on the global stage with increasing self-confidence and demands for increased influence. In the United States, the global leadership and the will to defend the world order that the country itself has been involved in building after World War II is called into question. The crises just outside Europe's living room door have stuck. The destabilising behaviour of regional actors continues, and we see examples of it moving across Europe’s borders. Thanks to targeted efforts, fewer asylum seekers and irregular immigrants come to Europe and Norway. Development strengthens the requirements of Norwegian foreign and security policy. Small and highly developed countries, such as Norway, are the ones that lose most if the strongest countries make decisions on us all. We can no longer take for granted the international order that has marked the world after World War II. Norway is highly dependent on other countries in terms of economic and security. That is why it is a consistent line in our policy to strengthen the international rules that ensure smaller states, so that Norwegian interests can be taken care of. We need to promote our liberal values. Therefore, we will be even more committed to committed international cooperation and work to reform the international institutions in which we are given seats and can participate. That's why we have something to bring to the Security Council, if we become a member. Our EEA Agreement, as an access to the EU's internal market, is a crucial platform for the protection of Norwegian interests in Europe and globally. The integration of the internal market does not only create opportunities for Norwegian enterprises – every day thousands and hundreds of thousands of employees go to Norwegian jobs that depend entirely on this market access. Our common well-being and high public consumption are also based on this premise. NATO and the strong transatlantic bond between Norway and the United States are crucial to our security. So we're going to work actively to maintain American involvement in Europe through NATO. It requires that we step up work within Europe as well, and that we invest more in our common security. Strengthening the EU’s ability to address security issues in our own neighbourhood will be an important contribution to transatlantic, improved burden-sharing. The democratic principles are being challenged around the world. At the dividing line between democracy and dictatorship, a number of countries are moving in the wrong direction. Human rights, civil society, religious minorities, journalists and human rights defenders are under pressure, and several countries question whether the basic human rights are universal or just a Western project. Fundamental rule of law is also challenged within the EU, and we must fight to preserve and promote our liberal values. There is no good brotherly help in letting such relationships pass unsolicited. The United States is Norway's main security ally and the guarantor of our security by NATO. The transatlantic links constitute the cornerstone of the protection of Norwegian security interests and it is essential to maintain US involvement in Europe through NATO. This also means that it is important for Norway to live up to – together with the others who contributed to the Wales Declaration – the NATO summit in 2014, in which the Member States committed themselves to working towards the use of 2 pst. of GDP in defence by 2024. Now a number of allies are making these contributions in the future. We must therefore be alert to the fact that the pressure to increase defence expenditure will not be reduced. We cannot fail to pay the insurance premium if we rely on mutual support and mutual solidarity from other countries, who are upgrading and using the agreed amount of resources for a common good, to maintain security and the security structure we have in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e237	I just thought I should highlight that the press is not so very interested in what we have to say in this room. I hope it's not a symbol of how little we have to say in the world – she can – but I expect them to follow closely on TV and on the Internet around. But it's nice that people in the gallery follow up on our debate, and that they're a little more interested than journalists most. I would also like to start by thanking the Foreign Minister for a good and thorough presentation. As she points out, international policies are increasingly marked by unrest and unforeseeableness. If we look back in time, Norway has been very lucky. Our geographic location has given us access to the world's most important resources while the same location made us relevant and interesting from a security policy perspective. Since World War II, we have lived and flourished economically within an American-dominated world. It has brought us security and economic growth and prosperity from which we all benefit – including the left-hand side, despite all the loud protests against American imperialism. We got used to the fact that the United States was the only superpower in the world, with strong security interests here where we live, and then it was also far less risky to make accusations against the United States of abuse of its global dominance. A unipolar world, with a dominant superpower that was at the same time our friend, has demanded very little of Norway's security policy. It was predictable and safe to be a diplomat from Norway and foreign policy until the fall of the wall — if it was not voluntarily chosen to undertake tasks outside the natural security policy tasks of Norway. We all celebrated the victory of liberal democracy when the wall fell. The mantra was that liberal democracy had won, and all other alternatives had played down—end of history. But it didn't. That's the way it's never going to be. The old rules of the game no longer apply. The given safe is gone, and the world is changing. The United States is still the world's leading and so far the only global military superpower, but the picture is changing rapidly. That's what the United States realized. The United States is changing its focus from Europe and increasing its presence in Asia and the Middle East. Today, there are natural resources and the market, and not least here is where the United States feels exposed to security competition. Today there are many signs that we are going towards a multipolar world. The challenge is that it can be read differently. What is certain is that Norway and all our NATO allies must deliver on the strengthening of our national defences. NATO's collective defence must become stronger. At the same time, this strengthening must not take place when setting up parallel structures. Then we risk the opposite of what is intention. Yes, we do get stronger national defences, but at the same time we are at risk of less collective solidarity. The construction of national defences must take place in a common understanding that we are building a collective NATO. A crucial point is that NATO Member States understand that a genuine collective transatlantic defence also includes defence-related industrial cooperation. European solstice in that field is a security policy chance game. When geopolitical focus changes and the active military presence of the United States in Europe is no longer as obvious, Europe must contribute to securing transatlantic ties in both word and action. The emergence of strong undemocratic authoritarian regimes frightens, not least when they require a global leeway. At the same time, we must not be surprised that this is happening. Historically, this is how the global power and influence of the world have been distributed. It is only in our lifetime that liberal democracy has been strong. New conditions of power and balances of power will require more diplomacy. As a small state, it is demanding, perhaps impossible, to preserve the present world order. As a small state, we must therefore be good at reading the signs and manoeuvres of time. We can't just lean on the existing, but we have to think more steps forward. It is therefore important to have good diplomats who can listen, analyse and see opportunities for Norway in a new era. We must not recreate or maintain enemy images based on a time that no longer exists, but build alliances and cooperation that give us new opportunities. It is also important to have a good debate here at home. No one is stuck with the fasitancy of what is Norway’s long-term interests, nor how to get there. It is important, however, that we as a nation think in the long term. For example, one would like to want a strengthened and united Europe, but the chances of it happening are very small. Then we shouldn't put too many eggs in that curve either. Today, the EU is divided, and we are experiencing some leaders who instead of listening to their own people, in reality, gradually replace their own people, without such a process appearing to promote Europe's interests to a particular extent. Today, we don't know where the brexit story ends. Perhaps there will be a new referendum and a British yes to continued EU membership. It will in any case cause deep wounds within the Union and not least in the United Kingdom. However, if the British choose to withdraw from the Union, I am pleased that the Foreign Minister has been biased in securing Norway's trade interests. I would like Norway to take another step further in the long term and take the initiative to set up a transatlantic trade agreement where the United States, the United Kingdom, Canada and perhaps Iceland could have concluded. It's not possible to keep a foreign policy post without mentioning China's growth, and that in itself is interesting. China has great potential and sky-high ambitions. In the past, focus was placed on the huge market of China's large population, today China is a global player who will be able to set the agenda for decades to come. If successful, the ‘Belt and Road Initiative’ of China will create the potential for economic growth in a number of countries that have received little attention in the past. It will change the geopolitical image at the same time. China will have greater opportunity to shape the world order. Loyalty could change. One of the challenges is that economic growth does not necessarily depend on liberal values of freedom. Rather, the strength of China has been national cohesion and discipline, not freedom and pluralism. But the vast majority of people have in any case got it materially better. In such a perspective, it is important for Norway to manage our relationship with China in the best possible way. That's what this government has done. Of course, Norway should highlight the liberal values of freedom on which our regime is based, but we should not teach. We even have to learn. At the same time, we need to be aware of and take precautions regarding China's economic ambitions in cybertechnology. The challenge of such a development and possible monitoring is that it is invisible to most people. It is therefore also difficult to convince people of what we might be exposed to. Russia is an old power that insists on being counted as one. It is important to recognise that Russia is part of Europe's history and culture. Russia is a huge country and has legs in several parts of the world. The politically correct line is to condemn Russia's military movements. And let me stress: nobody applauds military aggression. This does not mean, however, that one cannot understand Russia's course of action. Once again, it is important to look into the situation of others, and not least to think about what is best for our own country in the long term. It's been 75 years since the Red Army released Finnmark. We must maintain a good neighbourhood and have a good dialogue at political level. The alternative is worse. In any case, we must not forget that all world orders have one thing in common, and that is that they disappeared.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e277	First, thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for a wide-ranging and important briefing to the European Parliament on foreign policy and standing. I agree with the Foreign Minister that we must safeguard Norway and our country's interests with a clear transatlantic anchoring. Norway is part of Europe, and Norway shall cooperate closely with Europe. At the same time, the Centre Party is more sceptical about subjugating the EU, as the government in many areas wants. The representative, Anniken Huitfeldt, warned in his speech against reversing the EEA Agreement – an agreement that has evolved in a completely different direction and with much greater integration into the EU than the Huitfeldt party trap, Gro Harlem Brundtland, did well at the time of the conclusion of the agreement. He has become the dynamic agreement the Center Party warns against, and for which our party was ridiculed by the great majority. ACER, the EU's financial supervision and membership of the European Defence Agency, EDA, are examples of the central party that has ours and is, apart from the government. There is an area where Norway gives far more power to the EU than the one discussed at the time of the conclusion of the EEA Agreement, and it weakens the Norwegian People's Government. In the case of the EDA, the European Defence Agency, NATO itself is particularly critical. The French President, Macron, has said that this should be a strength that should be able to withstand even the United States if necessary. Is this in line with the fact that we are to safeguard Norway's interests with a clear transatlantic anchoring? The global order is out of order – said Rune Jakobsen, head of FOH, Defence Operational Headquarters, a few weeks ago. In the light of today's security policy situation, with an increasingly cold relationship between East and West, it is not justified to experiment with the security policy frameworks of Norway. We have to stick with our allies in NATO and not build parallel structures. I am pleased that the Foreign Minister explicitly states that she argued that there would be no parallel structures between NATO and the EDA. At the same time, I got a somewhat different impression about this matter in the previous week at a conference in Bucuresti, where the EU's foreign policy and defence policy were discussed. It was noted that the Norwegian Government is working to ensure that Norway joins the various parts of the EU’s new defence alliance and force as wide as possible. The size needs to be clearly informed about this important issue as soon as possible. The central party supports the government in its priority of increased allied presence in Norway. The basic statement of 1949 is set out in the framework of Norwegian security policy. At the same time, we have, and are, critical that allies come in at the same time as we reduce their military capabilities. It is claimed that we soon have more allies than Norwegian soldiers in the inner Troms. And while it is negotiated that allies can both practise and benefit Norwegian airspace, there is no doubt that Norwegian basic policy is firm, and he cannot change without the previous debate in Stortinget. We need to build up the Norwegian defense and ensure a robust front line defense based on Norwegian soldiers. We should welcome allies, but they cannot take over the tasks of Norway, and especially not in the security policy situation that is international today. The same applies to the maritime strategy, where the decision to shut down the Andeya air base has led to and will continue to lead to a dip in operational activity. With the increased maritime dimension in the North Atlantic, I believe that the Foreign Minister is my creation of the U.S. Second Fleet. Norway's maritime presence in the north is not good enough, as the situation is today, although there is a positive increase in the number of sailing days of strategic capacity. The challenge relates in particular to the lack of helicopter capacity on coastguards and frigates and surveillance aircraft capacity. We see an increasingly globalized value. Developments in the last 20 years, especially with the Internet, have brought the world closer together. We should not work against globalisation and digitisation. We'll love to welcome you. At the same time, we must have a conscious attitude to that. Saka with Huawei and 5G networks show what challenges we can face with the new technology that comes. It is important that we take the debates and make decisions that have led to the problems that globalisation can bring about. The UN is doing a particularly important job in today's international societies, and Norway must give priority to the UN's important work. For every year that goes, we come closer to the deadline for achieving the sustainability measure. The World Bank has said that focusing on small-scale farmers has the best effect in reducing poverty. Norway has a large potential to increase its efforts in this area. It is an area that is far too small, even in the light of the climate change we see today – climate change that will lead to large areas becoming useless for food production, a development that can in turn lead to migration of an extent that makes today's migration just a warning of what may come. We need, as a country being heard in the international dialogue, to raise climate change and preparedness in water, food situation, medicine and health even higher on the agenda. Brexit has also led to a major debate in Norway. We realize that a hard brexit could occur for almost two years now. The fact that the government has provided more urgent treatment over the last few weeks is critical. These are things that we could have come into before and with that prevent an urgent handling. The government's communication around brexit may indicate that they have delayed doing something in the hope that brexit will not happen. One example is the Prime Minister's statement in June 2016, where she explicitly warns the British against leaving the EU. There has now been unnecessary concern in Norway about Brexit because the government is leaning on the EU and the whole of the country is waiting for what the EU is going to do. The government could have bilateral agreements with the United Kingdom, just as we now need to deal with them urgently in committees. I Prop. 45 LS for 2018-2019 show them among others to enable us to have a failure in the pharmaceutical industry. The fact that the government is now coming on the track and informing the Storting about this is unwarranted, and it indicates that of course one does not want brexit to happen, but that one is also pushing for important information in the hope that a brexit will not happen. There are great tensions in the global family. The ultimate target against the human race is the potential use of nuclear weapons. Last time we saw it in Kashmir, where Pakistan and India, both of whom have nuclear weapons, were in strong conflict. Fortunately, it has had some fun today, but can flare up again. Norway is chairing the United Nations panel of experts on the verification of disarmament, a body in which nuclear weapons states are united with States that support the Forbidden Treaty. In the fall Norway joins the IAEA Board, an important organisation to prevent the spread of nuclear weapons. In other words, Norway is centrally located. It is sad, therefore, that the government and the Labour Party are united against Norway working for nuclear disarmament by signing the UN Treaty on the Elimination of Nuclear Weapons. Several people today have noted the insecurity and unrest that have spread in the global family in recent years. It is important, as it has also been stressed by many, that we are united on the big lines and the important issues. We are a small country, but we have a separate voice in the world. We'll be hearing. We're a little defensive, we're a great humanitarian power, and we have a good tradition of working for peace too. I hope, as time goes by, that Norway can make an even greater effort to secure us against the greatest tragedy against the human race, that nuclear weapons are being deployed. It requires greater resistance from the government and the Labour Party, and that one can join the UN Treaty on the Elimination of Nuclear Weapons and have an even clearer voice, both in NATO and in other international forums where we are present, to ensure peace and stability even in time to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e309	I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for the presentation, but at the same time say that I think she seems very much like an analyst and little like a politician. When you hear the presentations about the government’s foreign policy, sometimes you wonder a little about what Norway really wants, among other things. with this place in the Security Council as it is so important for the government to secure itself. What is Norway really going to want in this world that is changing so much? I also think that the statement clearly reveals what is the great paradox in Norwegian foreign and security policy for the time being, namely that everyone is very quick to admit that the world is changing at a high pace, that what we are used to, no longer applies, but then is almost as fast to convert to water retention in terms of the political responses. So we are in a situation where we can clearly see the United States moving away from Norway, turning our backs on what is Norway's interests as a small country in a number of areas. It's about the trade war, about climate policy, and it's about our fundamental interest in a most regulated world based on a strong UN and strong multilateral cooperation. In this area too – and I will come back to it – we see that the US is undermining the cooperation in the world. There was news recently today about US testing of two new INF-union missiles. While all this is happening, Norway is moving closer to the United States in its security policy — by the way one has placed American soldiers on Norwegian soil, by the way one continues to participate in American warriors abroad. Norwegian security policy should be based on standing outside major conflicts of power and working for a regulated world. Then there's a paradox at the same time to move closer and become more dependent on a United States going in a different direction. It is a paradox that we are pursuing a policy that can contribute to increased tension in the northern regions, and that the government, with the good help of the Workers' Party, is pursuing a policy that undermines the UN's work on nuclear disarmament through the prohibition agreement. I would like to mention the draft budget promoted in Washington by Mr Trump's government, which is in favour of a full cut of American contributions to UNICEF and an eradication of US support for a number of other UN organisations – in a situation where UNICEF, the UN Children's Organization, is deeply involved, among others. in the work of relieving hunger among children in Yemen. We are talking about deep cuts in the UN peacekeeping operations, that is, a massive undermining of the UN effort that Norway believes is so important, both to create development in the world and to ensure that we have a world based on cooperation. It makes all the highest declarations of community of values, our most important allies, etc. sound more and more hollow. A few words about brexit at the end: I record that there is a part on the right that is trying to take the uncertainty about brexit to income for its view in our home debate on the EEA Agreement. Let me therefore just remind you that the brexit and the Norwegian EEA debate come from two completely different locations, driven by completely different forces. We have the Norwegian EEA debate because of the huge turmoil in the workplace, a turmoil that comes from below the Norwegian community, and that Norwegian politicians should take on more seriously than they do today. It is also the case, when we look at what is happening between the United Kingdom and the EU today, that it is quite obvious that chaos is on the British side, linked to the unstable situation in Parliament and the difficult issue of the Irish border. I would therefore like to warn against drawing light conclusions about how difficult it would be to have negotiations on new forms of cooperation in the future based on the very special situation in the United Kingdom today. There is also reason to remember that what is being negotiated now is a divorce agreement, while the final arrangement for negotiating future cooperation between the EU and foreign countries is still well into the future, and that is only when we want to see what brexit will actually bring to Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e324	To begin where the previous speaker ends: it is in many ways almost prophetic that we have the debate on the foreign minister's dispensation on the same day as the British House of Commons will adopt a postponement of brexit, after having had the self-examined all the agreement options. The country, which through John Locke and John Stuart Mill was the source of classical liberalism, has now turned into a falling spiral of insecurity, nationalism and a ‘blame game’ about who is responsible for the miscarriage of Britain. When Norway became independent, it was with good help from the United Kingdom. We followed the British into NATO, and when we carried out the first referendum on EC membership, the British had decided to leave EFTA for the benefit of the EC. Today, I'm glad we're no longer following the line to the United Kingdom. Many on the Brexit side believed that independence from the EU would give them a new leadership role in the world. The result is a United Kingdom that has become self-inflicted, said most of the leadership ambitions and strives to see a future that does not lead to isolation and marginalisation. The UK economy is experiencing the weakest growth of six years, and initial investment was expected. This is important to think when we in Norway hold an EEA debate. Before Britain’s referendum, my good colleague, Ola Elvestuen, wrote that the British should not look at the Norwegian solution; they had it better in the EU than outside. Today, the Norwegian solution appears to be a glossy image compared to the Hungarian British. Almost the entire opposition is currently critical to the EEA. We have listened to the Center Party, SV and Red, which will also notify us completely out of the agreement. Their hopes are hunted to the British for a free trade agreement. That would be a better option than the EEA Agreement, they claim. This is worth paying attention to. So the opposition has no qualms about throwing Norway into the chaos that the British are now experiencing. I hope that day will never come, but we can thank the opposition for today's EU/EEA debate. There is no doubt that the EEA is a major advantage for Norway. We have exclusive access to a huge local market. 80 pst. the goods and services have been exported to the EU, 60 pst. imports come from the EU. The agreement provides for the availability of cooperation programmes which could otherwise be seen a long time later. The EEA is the most important tool we need for an offensive district policy. It is in the districts – in Stord, in Eid, in Kongsberg – that the industry and the business community are creating most jobs, such as contributing to the largest export incomes, the tax base, the welfare community and providing a basis for viable communities. It is very important, entirely decisive, district workplaces that primarily lose if the dream of the opposition party were to be ruined. Equally important: EEA-wide cooperation is crucial to address environmental and climate challenges. As a transitional country in the EEA, we can have an impact on the largest economy in the world and be part of something larger than ourselves. When the Senterpartiet claims to leave the car idle, it is certain that they do not have the same desire to be a leader in the EU's climate and environmental performance – fair enough. But that's not how you think. If we are to take care of nature, the environment and a climate without extreme weather, we must act together. We live at a time when liberal values such as tolerance, lack, freedom, community and international solidarity are under pressure. The thought of being self enough has co-winds. In Europe, we look back at the contours of a new core carpet, not to shut people in, but to keep them out. Taking us with the autocrats in Beijing and Moscow, ilberal leaders in Poland and today's inhabitants in the White House, Norway and the world need no less obligatory international cooperation, but more. Socialliberal Left will, of course, be a driver and a guarantor for the conversion of such a hold into action. And we also, of course, belong to a foreign minister who so consciously and energetically advocates the same attitude and vision.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e347	There is cross-political agreement that this was a good and thorough arrangement. It is an arrangement that clearly presents the values that we want to shape foreign policy, and that is clear that Norway is continuing our work, which has been going on for decades, for a better organized world order. And as the representative Navarsete also said, we have a self-sufficient and important voice. We're not the largest country, but we're still being listened to. I thought it was very important and correct what the Foreign Minister said in his foreign policy statement, and I want to quote it. She says here: ‘To solve global challenges, we need the United States – the world’s largest economy and military power – to show more predictable leadership in democratic values, trade policy solutions and climate.’ If we had gone back a few years and thought that a foreign minister would come with these kind of words from the Stockholm Chair of Foreign Policy, we would be surprised. But in 2019 it's both right and very important that it happens. I think we saw the picture from the G7 meeting last summer, a picture of Angela Merkel leaning forward in confrontation with a sitting Donald Trump. What I didn't know, I don't know, but what I know, is that Merkel and Trump stand for very different world views and attitudes to politics. Instead of cooperation and international agreements, Trump will have a value in which the states will settle between themselves. The U.S. is betting on winning with its own strength, rather than having allies. I've also noticed the way Trump has talked about other state leaders, for example. Prime Minister Trudeau from Canada, whom he scolded out when they had disagreements about Trump's new customs requirements, while in the Voice of America he has referred to North Korean leaders as capable and caring. And he has mentioned Russia's Putin and the Philippines' Dutterte and Saudi Arabia's Crown Prince Mohammed in very illustrious order. There is no doubt about where I think Norway must stand in the conflict that Angela Merkel and Donald Trump are actually showing. We need more cooperation in the world, because we have global challenges that just need more cooperation. In this context, it is also interesting to follow the brexit discussion that takes place in these days in the House of Commons. When the representative of Navarsete is critical of what the government does, I have to say, it has not been easy to know where the British land. What I've noticed is that we have a foreign minister who actually now has the assurance that we have a solution – no matter what the outcome. That's what I mean. And to disconnect the discussion that is about brexit from the EEA agreement in Norway, I also think I'm going crazy. For we see now -- what are the UK's actual options? 25 years have elapsed since the entry into force of the EEA Agreement. I can see that the way of the Christian People's Party was Norway's road, and the EEA agreement has lit us well. There are few political things the Christian People's Party has received so much honor for it, that we have shown way. Then I want to say: the EEA Agreement is not perfect, but it also applies – I would like to say – to all the other alternatives to the EEA. One doesn't find it perfect in this. I would also like to comment on what the committee leader mentions about Israel. I feel that there is a broad consensus in Norway that it is unfortunate that the force is being pulled out of Hebron, but I read the Granavolden platform so that we should have a good dialogue with both parties in the Middle East. It's our wish, and I want to say it's even more important after the United States moves its embassy, that we have a country that can talk to both parties in the Middle East. Norway has a role there.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e369	I would like to thank you for the nice feedback on the presentation and for a good debate so far. In my presentation I drew out Knut Frydenlund's book. Today, when we are debating the presentation here in the Chamber, Knut Frydenlund's son, one of our good and competent staff in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, is sitting in the lodge. I have noticed that there is a broad consensus on the broad lines of Norwegian foreign and security policy, and a broad consensus on which areas should be given priority. To the committee leader's point about the tragic plane accident in Ethiopia, I think it's a pretty good, albeit tragic, picture of how closely the world is woven together. The aeroplane had passengers from very many countries. Very many jobs in the United Nations system and in other relief organizations. From the Norwegian side, we have experienced the tragedy of losing one of our countrymen in the accident. It also tells something about the will for international cooperation, and I think we should reflect that very much of what we're talking about today and that was the theme of the presentation, is just how we can strengthen international cooperation to make the world better. The chairperson of the Committee pointed to the importance of strengthening both the media and the courts. I fully agree with that. Let me add the need to strengthen civil society, which is under considerable pressure very many places and who experience both harassment and challenges, and which makes the condition of civil society significantly worse than before. Civil society is crucial for the development of both democracy and prosperity. On Monday, in connection with my tour in the Middle East, I met Einar Aas and some of the observers in the force that is now about to be phased out. We, together with the other countries that make up this force, have been very clear that we regret the decision taken by Israel. At the same time, we are very clear that we are there at the invitation of the parties, and cannot maintain the strength if one of the parties does not want our presence. I would like to comment on brexit, but not brexit as such, because we still don't know how this will end 15 days before the scheduled date for brexit. I am in the mood of the representative of Navarsete's claim that it may seem that the government has delayed doing something because we hope that brexit will not happen. If there's anything the government has done from the day of the referendum, it's just to prepare us for what's going to happen, but not knowing what the outcome would be. It's 15 days to brexit, and we still don't know the outcome. We have informed the European Committee of the Storting and the Storting in the half-yearly European statements about the work of the government, how we are and, not least, we have used the opportunity to inform the public well. This is a work we just couldn't do faster, because we depend on a counter-debt, the United Kingdom, for which I think the representative Navarsete has a certain understanding, has other things to do than negotiate agreements with Norway. At today's European Committee meeting before we started this debate, I informed them that the last of the agreements we worked on, namely on the trade in goods, was agreed yesterday. We have come as far as we can go — in very many areas longer than many other countries — given the uncertainties that prevail on the British side. The European Committee has also been kept constantly informed about the issues. The issue of medicinal products and the potential shortage of medicinal products was brought to my attention in the European Commission of the European Communities several months ago. The Foreign Statement is also largely about how we are operationalising Norwegian foreign policy, whether it concerns human rights, peace and reconciliation, trade, European policy or security policy. There was a review tone in this statement. It's a little funny that the main point of the Lysbakken was that the United States is turning its back on Norway in terms of trade and climate, our fundamental interest in a most regulated world. This was a key point in the presentation: while in some areas we disagree with the United States about the way they have chosen, we build on the close and good cooperation we have in other areas, perhaps especially with regard to security policy. I believe it is a strength that the main lines of Norwegian foreign and security policy have the degree of consensus it has, and I think this has been a good debate so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e397	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e403	The Minister for Foreign Affairs has been Minister for Defence, but she is still attending NATO's Foreign Minister's meeting. Once again, in front of a Right-Land meeting, there's rebellion in the Right among people who think it's being used too little in defense. The proportion of defence went down from last year to this year, and the Prime Minister says to Dagbladet that this is a marginal decrease. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs agree that the decline is marginal? She meets understanding among our NATO allies that we're actually going the opposite of what's NATO's goal of 2 pst. of GDP in defence?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e410	After many years of reduction and reduction of defence budgets, this government chose to make a major commitment to defence and budgets. Since 2013 and until 2019, the defence budgets have actually increased by 30 pst. This is a significant increase. It is quite right, as the representative Huitfeldt points out, that in an interview in Dagbladet, the Prime Minister tells us something about the difficulty of reaching the goal. That, I think, is a perfectly realistic approach to the fact that we have joined the goal, like all other NATO countries. We're working to reach that. The premise for the next long-term plan is that we're going to move further towards the goal. At the same time, it is remarkable that this issue comes from a party that has not done anything in its alternative budgets to bring us closer to this goal. If it had been the case that the Labour Party or other parties on the Stortinget had deposited the approximately 20 billion needed, this criticism, or this question, would have some credibility, but we are not there – there is no willingness to prioritize this from the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e419	This is the difference between the Right and the Workers' Party in defence policy. If we look at what was our draft budget, which was based on the Ministry of Defence's calculations, we were able to move Norway towards 2 pst. This is also the reason why not only I react – defence friends respond, and defenders in the Right react. Right is no longer a defence party. I registered that the Minister for Foreign Affairs did not answer my questions, and they were quite concrete: Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs agree with the Prime Minister, who believes this is a marginal decline? Does the Foreign Minister meet with understanding among his colleagues in NATO so that we can move away from the 2-percentile?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e433	It is so interesting that we are here to discuss defence budgets in connection with a foreign policy statement, but of course I would like to do so. The representative Huitfeldt says that this is the difference between the Right and the Workers' Party in defence policy. No, this is the difference between the Right and the Workers' Party in Defence Policy: 30 pst. in real growth in defence budgets, a clear commitment to investment in new capacities, bringing us well over 20 percent – we are now at about 20 percent. 28 pst. in investment – and a clear leadership of reform in NATO and a clear leadership of being NATO in the north. Percentage targets are one important indicator. NATO has joined a system where we're going to move towards reaching the 2-percentile by 2024. Of course, depending on its economic growth, there are several countries that will experience different estimates of the percentage. We have good economic growth in Norway. It has also allowed us to now make major investments through the defence budget. It has been important both to move towards the goal and to contribute to the strengthening of NATO.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e442	On 11 February, the NTB announced that Liam Fox, the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the United Kingdom, and Guy Parmelin, the Minister of Economic Affairs of Switzerland, had signed a trade agreement between Switzerland and the United Kingdom. It shall apply if they leave the EU, as intended. The EU also gave the United Kingdom a clear signal that they could negotiate with Norway. I mean it was reported in the middle of September last year. My question is: what is the difference between the trade agreement with Switzerland, which I assume the Foreign Minister is aware of, and the agreements that Norway has now concluded?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e449	First of all, the difference is that Switzerland is not part of the EEA and that means that the framework conditions for Switzerland’s agreements are different. It was also the case that Switzerland did not benefit from an exemption from EU protection measures in the case of steel and aluminium, while Norway received it. Like Switzerland and other countries, we have negotiated both transitional agreements if the British go out with an agreement and agreements for a no deal scenario. What has been important to us has been to continue as much as possible of what we have today, as seamlessly as possible. It is important because we want to have as close a relationship as possible with the United Kingdom and that there are as few consequences for Norwegian business and Norwegian citizens as possible, while we have to recognise that when the British have chosen to leave the EU and are going to do so at some point, there will obviously have some consequences for both the commercial policy relationship and the overall relationship, because the relationship we have today through the EEA Agreement ceases.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e456	I thank you for your answer. Norway and the United Kingdom have good trade cooperation, and we have very good security cooperation. Britain is one of our most important allies, along with the United States. I would simply like to ask: is it so to understand that the EEA Agreement can prevent Norway and the United Kingdom from further developing the close relationship we have had both in terms of security policy and in terms of trade cooperation, perhaps especially in relation to the fisheries sector? It would also be interesting to hear if the Foreign Minister thought it would be reasonable for the EU to maintain its agricultural and fisheries quotas when the United Kingdom goes out. It has been stated by the EU that they are looking at the quotas negotiated by the EU and that the United Kingdom is now having to negotiate new quotas on its own. In that case, Norway will be greatly affected.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e467	Finally, as I replied in the Storting two to three weeks ago, the Article 19 negotiations will be resumed at the end of today’s agreement period – towards the end of 2020. There is nothing in the present agreement that introduces clauses requiring the EU to have fewer Member States, despite the fact that it was concluded after the referendum on Brexit was a fact. Nor were there any indications from the United Kingdom that it would change if the United Kingdom went out. So it is maintained the way it is today, and then you see what might be renegotiated in the future, when the agreement expires. There is nothing in the EEA Agreement that stands in the way of further developing the close relationship we have with the United Kingdom, whether in terms of security policy or in terms of trade. But we have to recognise that the relationship can be different, because very many of the trade agreements we have today go through just the EEA, because Britain, as an EU member, is also an EEA member. That means that we have to try to compensate as much as possible when it's a fact, so that we can have as close and close a relationship as possible and as good a trade policy relationship as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e474	Since there was a debate here that is really a play for the Right National Assembly, I would just like the Foreign Minister to be happy to stop unrealistic promises of 2 pst. there, which neither the Right nor the Workers' Party will be able to comply. What I wanted to ask was something else. It's about the government's reaction to the U.N. launch proposals. A number of these are dramatic for many UN organisations that Norway has a close relationship with. Maybe we'll start with UNICEF, where President Trump proposes to erase the entire American support. The United States has been a crucial donor to UNICEF's work, so it's a dramatic situation. My question is, what is the government's reaction to that, and what can Norway do to help save UNICEF?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e483	We've reacted to these cuts in a rather broad way. One is that we have marked our political disagreement with them. From the very beginning, we took an active part in the so-called She Decides initiative, which is about filling up some of the extracts that the United States is making of money from some of the organizations. This is particularly true in the field of sexual and reproductive health. That's why we have, among other things, increase the basic allocation of UNFPA, as one important measure. We have also contributed voluntary funds early on to reform of the UN, which we believe is absolutely essential. 2019 is a crucial reform year in the UN. We have also provided for the strengthening of UNRWA, which is the organisation of the Palestinian refugees, and have paid out our support at the beginning of the year, both this year and last year, simply to contribute to their increased liquidity in order to provide the services they are to provide.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e488	I thank you for your answer. Everything the Minister for Foreign Affairs now said, I agree and appreciate, but I should also like the government to say something clearly before Congress finally takes a position on the budget proposals that are now on the way, linked to the now more dramatic cut-off proposals that are on the table. In concrete terms, for example: UNICEF, United Nations Children’s Organisation. It is important that allied countries now call around these organisations and contribute to the pressure of the U.S. government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e494	Firstly, I believe that we must respect basically both the United States and all other countries for the fact that it is the national parliaments or governments of the different countries who, of course, ultimately decide what their budgets are like. I also think that the treatment in Congress might make things look different than what we've seen now. We have e.g. See that one area, the World Food Programme, has received increased appropriations under the Trump administration. So this isn't a unique picture. We also give clear and clear notice through our UN delegation, naturally, and we say so in the discussions with the US authorities. But we also want to help the UN organisations expand their base of donors, so that you do not become so dependent on individual countries, as some are. It's not just about the United States; it's also about several other countries that are big donors in some of the organizations. If that support falls away for various reasons, either because of budgetary considerations or because of political considerations, the organisations become very vulnerable. Therefore, it is important to have more legs to stand on, and therefore, as Norway is now doing, it is important to contribute to the financing of UN reforms, which are essential.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e501	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e506	As many have already pointed out in this debate, the Minister for Foreign Affairs points to a worrying development in international policy. It's about the values of the committed international cooperation. I share that concern. For there is reason to recall that throughout the post-war period, committed cooperation and organisation have been the basis of international peace, reconciliation and development in Europe, but also in our own country. For us, it's about the EEA Agreement, it's about NATO, and it's about the UN. Greater European cooperation creates opportunities for Europe’s people – opportunities to obtain work, opportunities to obtain education, opportunities for businesses to develop technology further, and progress for all. But of course, in many of these international organizations, there is still a democratic deficit that creates liberal economic development and creates inequality. That is also a concern. I nevertheless believe it is necessary to say in this debate that global cooperation must be the work tool for the future in order to tackle increased conflicts and climate challenges and to create fair systems for international companies. International companies can themselves be a threat to democracy. It is necessary that we have international institutions that acquire control of these companies on the basis of a democratic principle. This transnational cooperation facilitates the exchange of goods and services and the transfer of people and knowledge – knowledge of each other. The free movement of study opportunities and work opportunities creates interpersonal understanding, gives us breadth and promotes science and knowledge. This gives little Norway an opportunity not to live in isolation but as part of the global community. But – and that is in many ways my point in this post – the political extremes are today in their true form of isolationist. With them lies the fear of strangers. They see the outside world as a threat and not an opportunity. It does not require courage to view the world as a threat, but it requires great courage to view the environment as an opportunity. Nationalist trends that create barriers to such understanding, for the development of safe food, for innovative technologies and for diplomatic solutions must be fully opposed. The Minister of Foreign Affairs had in his speech a statement that I would quote, a little in the extension of what the representative Hareide said. She said, ‘At the same time, it is worrying that the US sees less the value of committed international cooperation.’ It's, I mean, a dramatic sentence from a Norwegian foreign minister. She also underlines her friendship with the United States, and has done so later in the debate. I also agree; I agree with both of these statements. But like what others have said in this debate: What is a whole new move is the great concern we have for the evolution that the United States represents. It's about power policy. It's about building walls. I had never thought that a leading western country would start building walls. We've been talking about tearing walls, not building walls. It points in the direction of an international development for a leading state in the world on the western side that we must have full focus on, because if the United States is to lead the democratic Western world in such a direction, I am very afraid that we can quickly lose our authority in the world, which we have had ever since World War II.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e526	I would also like to start by thanking the Foreign Minister for a good foreign policy statement, a statement from the government and a statement from four parties. I also notice that the chairman of the committee, from the Workers' Party, commends the presentation. I am more concerned when I hear what might have been a government from the opposition side. What would such a foreign policy statement have looked like? It's broken from the first moment, the posts that come from that side. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs explained, the long lines of Norwegian foreign policy are firm. We are going to work towards a better organised world, and it also includes the regulated international cooperation bodies and institutions that we have, such as the United Nations, NATO, the EU, the Council of Europe and others. All these institutions are under a certain pressure today. The obvious and closest to ourselves is maybe the brexit process, and we still don't know what the result and extent of it will be. But today's Business showed us this week an estimate of nearly 1,000 billion. The dollar is moving out of London's financial institutions. Later today, we will discuss important measures to ensure the best possible relationship with the United Kingdom also for Norway following a possible Brexit. Compared to these changes, it is important that Norway stands together. I also look forward to the government’s big message on Norway’s role and interests in the multilateral international system, which will come in the spring. There we are given the opportunity to spread the very subject matter within what goes on in these multinational and international organizations. In order for Norway to be able to end up with just these institutions, it is important that we have a stable growth rate that ends up with the long lines of our policies. It is not easy when it is not even possible to get a proper grip on what would be the opposition's foreign policy. Something is because there is a big gap between the different parties in the opposition, something else is that we see an Workers' Party that is unclear in several important issues. There is also a great tension between the different opposition parties, and in various ways they contribute to such doubts as to the extent to which they end up in Norway’s main international relations and alliances. Socialist Left Party and Red want to break free from NATO. SV and the Central Party will undermine the EEA Agreement. The working party is thus pressed from several sides on just these questions. It may be worth remembering that the districts are very dependent on the EEA Agreement and the business we have out there. Borregaard, in my state, exports 95 pst. of its output, and half, 50 pst., of its international exports are in the EEA regions. It's called gambling with jobs in the districts. If Norway is to play a constructive role, we must be safe in our main international cooperation. We must pursue an active European policy, have a strong and committed NATO policy and contribute to international efforts in a world where people are affected by just conflict and distress. We are much weaker with one alone and on our own. Together, it's possible to do things right. We can imagine and ask ourselves: if we had not had the UN, if we had not had the Council of Europe, would the time have been right now to establish the arenas for conversation, for dialogue, to contribute together to development? Institutions are under pressure, democracies are under pressure. Human rights and the rule of law are under pressure. It's about asking, how do you build a country? Even those of us who have 204 – almost 205 – years of experience with a constitution that we still have, and which clearly contributes to our upholding and continuing to develop our democracy, are not finished either.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e541	The head of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Anniken Huitfeldt, referred to former Minister of Foreign Affairs Knut Frydenlund and the great effort he made for Norway – which I agree with. However, I would also mention another, former Prime Minister Lars Korvald – he said Norway is a small country in the world. I think sometimes there's reason to remember it. That hand I hear statements and views that had been natural for a major act – and Norway is not a major act. A little bit of modesty in some contexts, I think could be quite reasonable. I agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that the main lines of Norwegian foreign policy are fixed, and for me, the broad lines are the committed cooperation we have in NATO and the EEA Agreement. These are the two main foundations. Then we must also remember that we are part of these organisations in order to safeguard the interests of the Norwegian people, of our voters, of our interests, and not in order to – let's say – push our opinions on very many other countries around the world. When the EEA Agreement was concluded, the EU was something quite different than it is today. And it is easy for me to admit that when the EU was enlarged with the Eastern bloc countries, we would have thought much more through the consequences. The countries that were in the EU when we entered into the EEA Agreement were very similar to Norway – even when living standards were in place. However, when the EU expanded, the differences became so large that we should have actually asked for a transitional regime, especially when it came to the free movement of labour, not in the range of 7 to 8 years, but in the range of 20 to 30 years. Much of the social dumping and the whole debate that has come after this, and the unrest in many countries, I think, among other things. is one of the main reasons why we now have Brexit. The significant migration of cheap labour to our countries, which did not have the same security requirements, caused unrest in our labour markets – which we still have. We should look forward in time and be much more interested in a transitional period. We have experienced that Norway has been militarily engaged in other countries around the world in cooperation with others. I think one of the lessons is that when we do that kind of thing, we also have to have a plan for how we can end it, an exit plan, and not just throw us in something. We also have to know how to get out. I think that also applies when we consider putting in place criminal reactions because other countries do something we don't like, for example. penalties. Then we also have to think through: how are we going to be able to end it? How long are we going to keep going? Is there any reason to believe that the decision will be reversed? I believe it is also important, and I hope that the Foreign Minister will work with our partners in NATO to try to find an opportunity to end the sanctions against Russia. Yeah, that's not good, what happened, but I think there's little reason to think the Russians are pulling out of Crimea. Then we have to figure out how to get out of this situation. That is why I am also pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has so strongly underlined the importance of a good relationship with Russia. We have a lot of common interests, we have a common boundary, and we have a good relationship. Finally, I don't think we should underestimate people's national feelings. There are many in Europe who are seriously concerned about the wave of migration that has been, that can come back, and that continues. Talking a little demeaning about those who feel fear of the stranger, as Kolberg did, I don't think it's wise. Never underestimate the strength of people's love for their own country, their own history and the conditions they have become accustomed to in their country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e554	I also found that the Council of State held a good foreign policy position, and I agree with most of the things that have been said, both when it comes to the EU, the EEA and others. We need the EEA Agreement. That's what makes us on the inside of the internal market, giving us a home market of 560 million rather than 5.5 million. There's a difference. The agreement allows us to participate in a range of collaborative venues with our European and Nordic friends, allowing Norwegian students, Norwegian workers and Norwegian pensioners to move relatively freely across the European borders, whether they are to study, to work or to travel on vacation. No country other than the EEA countries has this close, close and flexible relationship with the EU. We have got the agreement we wanted the day we received it. At the same time, the EU is facing major challenges, and the government council may not be so much affected. The EU is a major peace project in which many countries have joined together in a common Union, the aim of which is to stand stronger through cooperation, but also to build units where there are initially differences. The problems concern us in several areas, but the main difference is the degree to which the EU is to develop in a federal direction as a liberal legal society, or whether the common interest should be brought down and moved back to the national states. This challenge has been faced by the EU since it was established, and it will probably be further along, but it has not been as visible as it is today. In recent times, we have had a number of issues where these contradictions have been raised today, and where several countries have refused to participate in the practice of agreed policies because they do not accept the EU's right to adopt policies in those areas. The country nectars to accept the acceptance of asylum and refugee policies, that the judiciary should be free from politics, that sexual minorities should have individual rights, and that different NGOs should be able to act freely. And where the EU wants to secure its citizens' liberal courts, conservative leaders claim that this is against their culture. Conflicts exist between the various political parties at European level, but also between the various parties. For example, in EPP, where the Right’s sister party is involved, they also have the Hungarian party Fidesz with Viktor Orbán at their head, and he is one of the most critical EU leaders in Europe. He is at the forefront of the EU's national populistic criticism. In his letter to the inhabitants of Europe, the French President Emmanuel Macron wrote that, not since the Second World War, we have used Europe as much as we do today, and yet Europe has never been in danger again. It's not that hard to say that he's right in this. The greatest danger we face is nationalism, which in countries by country gets stronger footholds, both in the east and in the west. To combat this, we need a stronger EU capable of securing both freedom, protection and progress in a troubled world. The EU is so much more than the single market. It is also about protecting borders and defending Western values such as democracy, freedom and the liberal legal community. And I must say that I really hope, for the election and for the future, that the forces will emerge that will develop a democratic Europe. Finally, I would like to say a little to the representative Lysbakken, who says that the drivers in the Brexit debate on the EU and the drivers in the Norwegian debate are fundamentally different. I don't see the big inequality. I see that both in relation to brexit and national debate, there is one thing that is superior, and that is the desire to free itself from supranational governance. Then there is a labour market, and everyone knows that in the labour market, foreign workers are unpopular with national workers. There's something one player on – it's playing in the United Kingdom, where two thirds of people voted for Brexit because they wanted national control of the labour market. It's playing in Norway to get us laid. The difference is not large.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e579	I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for an insightful presentation. Both Knut Frydenlund and Lars Korvald are quoted here today. I think I have to add another quote from Knut Frydenlund. He said in his day, in the 1970s: Norway is a small country in a dangerous world. It also applies today. Europe is our continent. This year the EEA Agreement celebrates 25 years, an agreement that has served the Kingdom of Norway well. The centre lot will exit from the EEA Agreement. The centre party will distance itself from Europe. Brexit is a reminder of the problems that a country can face when leaving well-functioning cooperation and good institutions. When the Central Party intends to replace the EEA Agreement with a trade agreement and believes that a trade agreement with the EEA Agreement can achieve the same good terms and conditions as the EEA Agreement, it is taken into account. The 1973 trade agreement to which the Central Party wants to return was an agreement that guaranteed customs freedom for Norwegian industry, and that was it. The EEA Agreement covers a little longer, much more. If the United Kingdom had the opportunity to achieve a better agreement outside the EU than within the EU, the UK would probably have offered a gold-plated paper to the EU. And there is reason to recall one more thing: after the conclusion of the EEA Agreement, the negotiating power between the EFTA countries and the EU has been dramatically distorted. If you look at the time when the free trade agreement was negotiated in 1973, it was 11 EFTA countries that negotiated with 12 EU countries. Today, four countries remain in EFTA, and the EU consists of 28 countries. The combination of credible deterrence and will for disarmament and disarmament control has been a long line in Norwegian foreign policy. Another long line in Norwegian foreign policy has been the ability to stand together, in particular the Right Party and the Workers' Party, on fundamental security issues. I look with concern at a growing Red, a growing SV and a weakened Workers' Party. This shift in power on the left-hand side of Norwegian policy may reduce the possibility of concluding the important national compromises and the consensus that has characterized Norway for the last 70 years in this very important area of Norway. There is no wish for the Workers' Party to be reduced to a party in which the Workers' Party becomes so uncertain in its strategic choices that this will not be possible in the future. NATO remains a nuclear alliance as long as other countries have nuclear weapons. We have a common goal, all of us, about a nuclear-free world, but the prerequisite is that all countries with nuclear weapons participate in disarmament work. Unfortunately, we see a Russia that is more aggressive and more self-reliant. It also applies in our neighbourhoods. We see an offensive practice pattern. Russia has renewed its military capabilities in our neighbourhoods dramatically in terms of both conventional weapons and nuclear weapons. Norway’s relationship with Russia is marked by deterrence and dialogue. Deterrence and firmness are prerequisites for predictability in the northern regions. We are also genuinely dependent and concerned that in the areas of cooperation with Russia, cooperation must continue in the same good way as today. Finally, I just have to take the opportunity to take the tip of a constructed problem: the 750 U.S. Marines now operating in Norway are a substitute for Norwegian forces. It is – with respect to reporting – directly wrong. These are soldiers who are in Norway on a rotational basis. Our security guarantee is based on allied reinforcement, and then we are totally dependent on allied soldiers, that is. American soldiers, can practice and train in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e607	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e612	Like many before me, I thank you for the statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, which I think gave a broad and fine picture. I perceive that her main message is the importance of committed international cooperation, while at the same time worrying that the international framework for what holds nations together is weakened. These two are the messages. I'm dividing it far on the way. If we are to have a peaceful world, if we are to solve the major challenges, we need definitely strong international institutions, and we need the will of countries to cooperate with each other. That's why I'm of course very concerned about the direction the United States has taken in recent years. I am also very concerned about the development of nationalist and protectionist movements in Europe. The representative of Ingerd Schou criticises us in SV for our NATO and EU resistance. We might have that debate another time, but she links it to the fact that, on the basis of that, SV would be against international cooperation. It is a complete failure connection. Our criticism of NATO and the EU is due to shortcomings in NATO and the EU, not due to lack of interest or willingness to cooperate internationally. SV is very concerned about a world where we need – and get in place – strong international organisations. We need to solve the major problems in the world, such as climate, human rights, inequality, poverty – migration, not least. Then we must have binding international and also supranational institutions. I think the representative from the Right here should rather address some of this criticism against the government partners of the Progress Party, which in particular in the area of migration is less concerned with international committed cooperation. If we are to gain a world where we strengthen human rights, we must also be courageous and dry to criticize other countries. That is why I am pleased that the Foreign Minister has summoned the Iranian ambassador on the carpet for the very serious sentence against the human rights lawyer Nasrin Sotoudeh a few days ago. She got 38 years in prison and 148 whips because she had defended women's right to go without hijab. At the same time, I am stunned that the corresponding courage to criticize another country is not directed against Saudi Arabia, against China or against the United States for their wall against Mexico, etc. If human rights and international law are to be strengthened, it must not be such that business interests or allies' obligations prevent us from criticising our friends for their violation of human rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e625	In addition to the fact that the representative Hagen did not quote former Prime Minister Korvald correctly, it was nevertheless the more serious part of his posts that made me sign a new post here. I believe that the threat that Russia represents to Norway and to Europe is being taken too lightly. I just want to say that the fight you've had about Crimea is almost culturally conditional. I think we have to accept as a fact that Russia is the greatest military threat in our part of the world. The country is still considered not to risk a military confrontation with NATO, but Russia has not changed its self-reliant behaviour in the Baltic Sea region. It is clear that political leadership in Russia will have a different Europe from what was built together after the fall of the Wall. The list of unacceptable actions is long, where annexation of Crimea is only one point. There has also been warfare in Georgia, and parts of the country are still occupied. We've seen the aggression in eastern Ukraine. We've seen the neurotoxic attack in Salisbury. We continue to see cyberattacks against authorities and businesses, threatening rhetoric and exercises, reluctance to control weapons, and not least interference in electoral acts and campaigning that threaten democratic processes. All of this is a means of undermining European security architecture and democratic principles. Worldwide, Russia is opposed to the rule-based world order. The multilateral organisations and regimes are applied more to obstruction than to constructive cooperation. The Russian violation of the ban on land-based medium-range rockets, the so-called INF agreement, is of concern. The potential collapse of the Treaty may have far-reaching consequences for European and Norwegian security. In Syria, Russia supports a regime that has rejected the laws of war and uses chemical weapons against its own people. Russia must not succeed in breaking up internal cohesion in Europe and across the Atlantic. Here, the EU and NATO will continue to play a central role. It is therefore quite reasonable for the government to maintain strong support for EU financial sanctions against Russia. These sanctions are not total, they are targeted – go right to the management of the country. To facilitate these, it must be linked to a peaceful solution whereby the parties comply with the Minsk agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e639	I once again drew myself out because of part of the posts that were held in connection with the Norwegian EEA debate. That was said, including: by Mr Breivik, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, to thank the opposition for today's EEA debate. That's wrong. Today's EEA debate is not something that the opposition has found, it comes from the Norwegian trade union movement. If the other parties are not willing to take seriously what is happening in Norwegian employment soon, that debate will become stronger and stronger. And I wonder if Breivik is talking to the unions in our common home state, because if he had, he would have seen very clearly where this debate came from. The representative Hareide said that we are now seeing what is the alternative for the United Kingdom. My initial point was just that we don't. Time will continue to show what will be the EU-foreign cooperation system. What is now on the table, and which may – perhaps not – be adopted, is the divorce agreement. If one manages to get some form of divorce agreement in port, then the negotiations on a trade agreement begin. And then we get the answer to these things. The Norwegian EEA debate comes from the extent of social dumping — in construction sites, in industry, on roads, in ports and far into the public sector. The representative Leif Sande knows that very well, because he has his own background from the trade movement. That is why I am very surprised that he says that it is not possible to see differences in the motivations of the British Brexit and the Norwegian EEA resistance. If you do not see any difference between the leaders of the Conservative European Union resistance in the British Parliament, i.e. top-class politicians such as Jacob Rees-Mogg, known as parliamentarians for the 18th century, and Norwegian trade unionists in the Norwegian Transport Workers' Federation or the EL and IT Association, you need to adjust the political spectacle force. Carl I. Hagen's contributions were an interesting recognition of a number of things – almost touching – but I just have to remind you, if the Progress Party is now going to start taking on the serious situation out in the workplace, that there is a party that lasts all year, and still, completely systematically votes against anything that could remedy the situation that creates social dumping. The party to the progress is opposed to facilitating the publication of tariff agreements. The Progress Party opposed the legislative changes that would combat zero-hour contracts. The progress party is for staff agencies. The Progress Party has voted in favour of each single EEA Directive which makes it more difficult to direct Norwegian employment to the best of workers. It's easy to talk, but when the action points in a completely different direction, it's hard to take the words seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e650	I was a little while here, now at the end, afraid that I had taken the floor in the wrong debate. I would also like to thank the Foreign Minister for a thorough and good presentation. However, as a Finnish mark, I would like to focus more on the relationship between Norway and Russia and the Norwegian-Russian border in her presentation. Norwegian-Russian cooperation in the north is comprehensive, widespread and broadly anchored – from pomor trade, war and cold war to open borders, to today, where we again see a demanding situation, with disagreement, sanctions and counter-punishments. There must also be a good neighbourhood to say from when you disagree, and that is how I am pleased with the attitude that Norway has taken, but I am also pleased that we still have strong cooperation. The whole period of cooperation has been rooted in the wishes and needs of the population on both sides of the border. Even during the coldest war, this border was relatively open, with cultural and sporting exchanges, what we today call people-to-people cooperation. In 2017, there were 265,177 border crossings above this border. There was a slight drop last year, but it is significant, even when we think that Finnmark states have over 76 000 inhabitants. I would like to say more about the divider line, shared resource management, municipal and regional cooperation, business cooperation and people-to-people cooperation, but I can't reach everything, even if it's very positive. In the final phase of World War II, there were tough battles on the Russian side of the border. There were enormous sufferings and great losses on the Russian and German sides. The Red Army drove the Germans out of East Finland. 611 Russian soldiers lost their lives on Norwegian soil. The Red Army subsequently transferred control to Norwegian forces and withdrew completely from Norway. We have a common responsibility to pass the story on to new generations. This year, the 75th anniversary of the liberation of East Finland has been added. The main marking will take place in the churches. There is an explicit desire and high expectations for a strong presence of representatives of official Norway and Russia on this mark, and it hopes, believes and expects the Minister to take it with him. So, since I have a few seconds left, I want to say that as a Finnmarking I too want a strong presence of Norwegian forces in Finnmark. Many have expressed concern today about the build-up of military activity on the Norwegian and Russian sides. My personal opinion is that there is necessarily no contradiction between having a strong presence of the Army's sovereignty and a good neighbourly relationship and neighbourhood characterized by cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e671	We hear in the debate several of the Right speakers are concerned about the opposition. I think they should be more concerned about themselves. In Russia's policy, the prime critics of the Minister of Foreign Affairs are her own government partner, the Progress Party. Faced with climate change leading people away, we heard the figures of this week's government here at Stortinget talk about 'climate hysteria' and say that there is also bad weather here in Norway. I am also concerned about the signals sent by the government in core areas of Norway: we have a Prime Minister who has put on the negotiating table women's right to decide about their own bodies. We've got the first tightening of the abortion law in over 40 years, and we've got the first family minister in many years who said he doesn't want to participate in Pride. Symbols mean something in foreign policy, and the Minister for Foreign Affairs knows that well. Norway sends the wrong signals. When the new government statement came, Israel was the only country that received positive publicity. It was a warning about a new Middle East policy from Norway, and it came at an unusually bad time. Violence against the Palestinian population is increasing. There is currently no peace process to talk about, and the dream of a two-state solution is about to disappear completely. Where many of our neighbouring countries are discussing how we can get stronger instruments against the Palestinian occupation, Norway is doing the opposite. We believe that now is the time to step up our cooperation, and so Netanyahu Israel was the only country that got a positive review. Extra worrying is that this did not come with any reservations, it was not just about the areas that were not occupied. No, in this area the government has chosen not to enter any reservations. I mean, we saw the first sign of the new Middle East policy when Netanyahu decided in January to pull the international forces out of Hebron, and it's worth noting what was Netanyahu's reason. He said he would not allow an international force to operate against them. This was, therefore, after TIPH was able to report against increased violence and abuse against the Palestinian population. More violence gives less presence. Here I wish the Norwegian Minister for Foreign Affairs had reacted both faster and harder. In Israel, there is a elections in April. There's little reason for optimism. On the contrary, the hope of a two-state solution is in the process of disappearing completely. Norway should take an international initiative here, along with our neighbouring countries, for innovation in the Middle East policy. In one way that's what the new government statement did, but it was the bad way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e687	Thank you so much for the previous article, which I think was very important, that we get the Middle East question up. I want to take up a new dimension in my second post that we haven't discussed today, and that's the relationship between human rights and business. When international cooperation between the major international organisations is weakened, we need to secure human rights in the world in some other way. Today, power and influence are being transferred from the major state-supporting, supranational and international organisations to transnational companies. This means that we have to compensate for human rights – from the big institutions and work with it through business. I am then concerned about what Norway can do to strengthen and influence business in this respect. I have four specific questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs about it, so if she had the opportunity to answer, it would have been very good. I would like to start with a statement from the former director of Norfund, who for a while has performed to say that the continuous focus of the Norwegian organisations on human rights is damaging the reputation of Norwegian companies and weakens their willingness to invest in developing countries. In other words, the human rights focus of organisations weakens the competitiveness of Norwegian companies. Does the Minister of Foreign Affairs agree with the former Director of Norfund on this, and in that case what has she done to clean up the new management of Norfund, so that they do not have such attitudes? Then I must also ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs how far she will go to ensure that Norwegian investment will not lead to a violation of human rights, what measures she will take. Could the Minister for Foreign Affairs also be involved in the introduction of a law of care in Norway, which requires Norwegian companies to identify and report on the potential risk of their activities related directly or indirectly to human rights? Such a law of care has been introduced in some other European countries. And a little connected to the previous speaker's posts on the Middle East: Is the Minister of Foreign Affairs open so that we can put in place a system of labelling of goods produced on illegally occupied land, so for example. consumers in Norway shall have the opportunity to know that if they buy Israeli-produced oranges, are these oranges produced on illegally occupied land? Is the Minister for Foreign Affairs open for us to introduce such a brand scheme? These demands for business would definitely help business to also do an important job to safeguard the human rights of the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e704	The representative Aukrast from the Workers' Party, I really wonder where it belongs. There was an A behind his post, so it was the Workers' Party, but he spoke as if it were SV and further out on the left side than SV, and I would assume that that's why he was hoarded by Petter Eide afterwards. But it's interesting to know that the Workers' Party believes that there are climate refugees, and will allow them to get protection somewhere. Then I would like to hear where it is. The common rhetoric that the only democracy of the Middle East is, of course, the great bandit – the few millions of Jews in the Middle East, compared to the millions of Muslims around them who are constantly threatening – is that of course it is Israel’s fault that they are working well, and that of course it is Israel’s occupation that makes them unable to take care of themselves or try to create a daily life that is reasonable, or try to create jobs. Instead, they become more and more and are unable to cope, despite the international commitment of Augarust and everyone else. A little back to what my party colleague Hagen said: it's actually not that Norway should necessarily have the most central role in the world. Yes, we know we're rich, and that's also what makes us have a huge aid budget and are out everywhere and think we have a right to it. It's not safe we have a right to that. We believe ourselves that we're making the world a better place, but it's not certain that imposing other people's views is necessarily the best thing. We're going to be a little bit careful with that. In addition, we actually represent the interests of Norway and the Nordics, and that is not sensational either. That's actually what we're employed to do here in the house. What we have been chosen to do is to represent Norway and Norway’s interests, and they are not always consistent with the interests we constantly point out when we tell other countries that our interests are also their interests – we should just tell them a little more about what they are. That's not sure that's right. To the representative Hareide who, which is also a little interesting, says that Donald Trump has called many heads of state many strange things: he must admit that Donald Trump has also been called quite a lot of strange things, not only by heads of state, but by politicians most and not least by all journalists around the globe. It may be justified, but it becomes very strange to judge him that he has said very much negatively about other heads of state, once he himself has got the sink. You could say that he started, but that's another thing. So to the representative Tetzschner, who sums up all the things that the falsifying Russia has done, so that we should continue to impose sanctions: the sanctions were imposed because of Crimea, not all the other things that the representative Tetzschner might think Russia has committed in recent years, but because of Crimea. And they started towards the back of Ukraine having conversations under the table about NATO membership. That's why it happened quickly, and that's why Crimea was occupied. On the other side of the Black Sea, Russia has its largest marine base, Sevastopol. Would the United States ever allow a similar situation? We remember the missile crisis in Cuba, we remember El Salvador and Nicaragua. Of course they would not, and of course Russia would not. Therefore, these sanctions will be lifted in the long term, and the West will lose face. That's why we don't have to go so high on the track. We should rather build friendships and bridges against Russia. We're interested in it. We are neighbors of Russia; they should be our friends.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e719	I understand the need for the Audun Lighthouse to distance myself from the company he has come in, when one sees the political brexit debate. However, claiming that the EEA debate today came from a trade show, it is completely wrong. Of course, Norwegian trade unions have always discussed the EEA. It did one in 1992, and it does one today. But the starting point is that all the main organisations in Norway have said that they want the EEA Agreement. Within the LO there are some associations that have said that they are critical of the EEA Agreement, and it is the associations that are at least all trading with other countries in Europe. For example, my association, which organises the oil and gas industries, the melting industry, the chemical industry, the furniture industry, the pharmaceutical industry, the solar industry and a number of other industries – I have never heard anyone who has called for us to cancel the EEA Agreement. On the contrary, the requirement is rather an enhanced EEA agreement than a cancellation of it. When we look at the Norwegian debate and the polls: who in the various parties is in favour of the EEA Agreement, and who is against him? Red is the only game where most voters are clear towards the EEA. In fact, the polls show that even the voters of the Centre Party and SV support the EEA, and the Progress Party is the party that, in addition to Red, has the most voters who say they do not like the EEA Agreement. It is not the case that the debate comes from a lecture in Norway. When you look at the labour market, you see a lot of bad things, and then you start saying that now we have to cancel the EEA Agreement, instead of going into and solving the problems that labour immigration requires us to solve. One does not escape employment regardless of whether we have the EEA Agreement, if we are to invest all the hundreds of billions we are investing in Norwegian oil business every year. Who should do jobs if we do not have work immigrants? We have to have them here, and then we have to make rules and guidelines for those who are good and who are being followed. That's what's missing in today's society. One does not comply with the rules, and one does not have enough rules. Cut out the discussion that EEA termination and all of this solve the problems in the labour market, because it does not.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e732	At the end of the debate, I will answer some of the questions that have arisen. One is from the representative Petter Eide about having the same courage to criticize Saudi Arabia that we have against Iran. As I have explained in this Chamber up to several times in the past, we are pursuing an active human rights policy that also includes Saudi Arabia. That means that as late as March 7th this year, we had a joint venture with several other countries in the UN Human Rights Council, where we, among other things, strongly encouraged the release of female human rights activists. We are asking for access to prisons to visit these activists – which we have not yet received – and we have made clear and unambiguous recommendations in the UN Human Rights Council on Saudi Arabia. The representative Eide further asks about human rights related to Norwegian companies. I have too little time to go into all the details here, but first of all I would like to stress that Norfund is the Minister of Development's constitutional responsibility. On a general basis, I can say that the work of Norwegian organisations on human rights is in no way in the way of Norwegian competitiveness – rather the opposite. Norwegian companies are also bound by OECD guidelines for responsible business. In particular, with regard to human rights, it is clearly expected that companies will respect human rights, avoid violations of human rights and, of course, also deal with actual human rights violations, both in their own activities and throughout the supply chain. We expect this, of course, for Norwegian companies to survive. To the question of product labelling: This was debated and discussed in Stortinget as late as December 2017. It was then voted down in Stortinget, and that is the government's position. It is tempting to grasp many of the things that the Aukrus representative was about. There was no way in which the government's foreign policy was described, but there is no time to go in. I would just like to stress that in the case of the Middle East, Norway has led and will pursue a balanced approach to the Middle East conflict. That's what makes us fit into both sides of the conflict, that's what makes both parties in the conflict want us to have a role. I have just returned from a tour in the Middle East. I've had high-level meetings with presidents and prime ministers in both Israel, Palestine and Egypt, and I just want to stress that the role Norway plays is greatly valued by the parties, and there is no change in that role. It was also one of the reasons why we were out quickly – already on the same day – to stress that we deplored the decision to terminate the TIPH mandate of the observer group. But I would nevertheless stress that this has been a discussion for a long time, also under other governments in Israel. Governments from parties to which the representative is a member have, over the 22 years, existed TIPH, with varying intensity and a strong desire not to continue this mandate. It is important for Norway to continue a balanced and pragmatic approach to the Middle East conflict, and it is not the government platform’s fault that there is no discussion of a Middle East peace process today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e747	I think it is necessary to link some considerations to the issue of the EEA Agreement. The EEA Agreement serves Norway in many ways, and what is the political tragedy in this discussion is that if you are opposed to all the difficulties created by the EEA Agreement, you will get out of the agreement instead of trying to make it better. That's the one. The second is what others have pointed out, but as it is imperative for me to also point out, that the major challenges associated with the impact on Norwegian jobs can be addressed in this room if there is a majority in favour. The EEA Agreement is not in the way of that, and we have had many debates in this process of enlargement and in this period when the bourgeois parties have voted down what is necessary to compensate for the difficulties created by the EEA Agreement on some points. That's the reality of that question. When you say that you need to get out of the EEA Agreement to solve this, and then you think that you can do it on a national basis when you have a civil majority here who don't want an efficient and modern Norwegian working life, and the workers have to pay for it with more difficult working conditions, that development will continue. That's what I think about that side of the EEA case. They will be asked if the representative of Aukrus belongs to the Workers' Party. I believe it is much more serious to ask questions about the representatives Christian Tybring-Gjedde and Carl I. Hagen represents a government party. They're not doing it the way they've been talking today, as they've been talking about the nation state, as they've been talking about Russia. It is quite serious that representatives of the government parties are allowed – apparently – to operate in this way without the foreign minister responding. She responds to us others if we say something that is contrary to government policy, but not if her own supporting parties in the hall do so. They are the ones who bring the most important and heaviest attacks on the government's foreign policy. They do not actually come from the Labour Party. It should be a cross of thought. The Foreign Minister now has the opportunity to take the floor several times, and she should actually do that to clarify exactly this: Is it all right that the people of the Progress Party speak as they do, when they clearly speak for a different line than she stands for, both in her presentation and in the debate here today?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e758	The idea is not that I'm going to tail this debate to infinity. But I have been sitting and coming with you from the office chair, and the reason why I take the floor is among other things. I think it is wrong that such an important debate as the Foreign Minister's presentation with subsequent debate should be reserved for one committee. There are important issues that apply to the country. It's about our security, about the use of money, etc. There may be many discussions about what is hen and egg in terms of the threat situation, and what causes one or the other drawn in military strategy. If you're going to understand your enemy, you always have to get into the enemy's situation. So in today's situation, we have two superpowers, two blocks, led by two people who are quite unpredictable. We know this, it's quite commonly known. And things happen that are a little scary and disturbing, from both men's seats, you could say. If you're one of them, if you're President Putin, you've seen what's happened in the last few years. One has seen what Putin is terrified of, and that Russia has always been afraid of, in every year, at all times: an encirclement of this great continent in eight to ten time zones. I've traveled a lot there before, and I know the old Soviet Union and the new Russia quite well. I have to say that there's something they're worried about, that's the perimeter of their territory. What we have witnessed both from the EU and from NATO is precisely that tactic, which is taking on an ever-increasing mass of members, towards Russia. So it's not hard to understand Putin in his situation. It's not hard to understand him. It's the setbacks we do when this president makes the moves he's doing -- and feels threatened -- that are to put a little question mark on. I am delighted that we are building on this top pillar system that we have a credible defence and that we have dialogue. That dialogue part cannot be underlined strongly enough. I have traveled in Russia – it has been in the direction of the office, in work – and it is clear to me that the North is popular in Russia. We are very much like Russia. We have a history that goes far back, all the way back to Russia's pomor trade, via Nansen, etc. I just want to underline it. That dialogue trail must be followed. It is essential and essential.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e769	The representative of Kolberg asked questions about whether the representative Christian Tybring-Gjede and I represent the government party Progress Party, and the answer is yes – we represent the Progress Party, and we talk about the policy of the Progress Party. But it's also that within all parties there are somewhat different views on a number of issues. There have been quite strong internal debates in the Workers' Party, I have read in a book that came out a little before Christmas, and also in the book of Jens Stoltenberg it appears that there are different views, and that is sometimes actually power struggles and fractionation, I have read. What is the question is whether we can sometimes be allowed to talk about both our primary policies in government parties and our personal views, which sometimes differ from many others. We need a free political exchange of views, including in the Stortinget. I think Martin Kolberg should respect that, too. Then he can ask the question: I feel, for example, I commit myself to the Granavolden Declaration? And the answer is yes: when it comes to voting in things here in the hall, I'm on the Granavolden statement. But it would be completely impossible to have some open, constructive debates if everything were to follow a kind of line from such a statement. There must be access to open debates, and it was also under the red-green government. It happened, in fact, that the Swedes were expressing something that was not entirely government policy, and I think that's quite okay. It's e.g. a well-known case that I do not belong to what we call the climate alarmists. I do not see that CO 2, which is a gas we could not have lived without, has a particularly significant impact on the climate. There are no experiments that have shown it. This has been discarded – in my opinion. It's not the government's opinion, I know it; it's probably not the Progress Party's opinion either. But is it that one should stop being able to express one's views? I ask Kolberg to notice that when he hears my posts, he will sometimes hear that I am saying ‘we’ – on behalf of the Advancement Party, that is, ‘we mean’ – and so it happens, as I have done today, that I am talking about what I mean. I still hope that our foreign minister, who has done an excellent job of preparing brexit, will also put himself in the harness to try somehow, along with our NATO allies, to end the sanctions against Russia. I think it has to be respected that I have the right to say – as some kind of advice.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e785	It is not desirable to extend the debate unnecessarily, but the representative, Mr Kolberg, is well aware that the Granavolden platform underpins the government's foreign policy. It is also confirmed by other representatives here in the Chamber. Foreign policy statement is a product that comes on behalf of the entire government, and it is of course that the entire government is involved in what is being discussed there. I must nevertheless allow myself to be a bit surprised at Martin Kolberg's unusually short political memory. When Martin Kolberg's party, the Workers' Party, sat in government for eight years, we saw demonstrations against government policy in the lawn out here. Then SV protested. We saw that SV wanted a boycott of Israel, who created significant tumors internally in the government. We saw several dissertations on EEA issues and constant battles initiated by the Senter Party. We saw a big dissertation on migration issues, and not least a Secretary of State from SV thought that Norwegian forces involved in an operation could be responsible for violating international law, which was, of course, not correct. I think it is quite a big and serious deviation from what should be a common platform from the then government. I'm not worried that there are different opinions about different issues in foreign policy, but I'm dealing with myself as the rest of the government parties of that government party have agreed in the Granavolden Declaration. I agree that when the government – which has, of course, dealt with the foreign policy statement, as I know it was done in previous governments, and which are always done – has got behind that line, it is the government's foreign policy line, and it has no doubt. If you're going to start discussing and looking back at these things, I think the representative, Kolberg, is going to take the whole picture for the sake of honesty.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e795	The representative Martin Kolberg has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e800	The debate was extended 'unnecessary'. No, this is not an unnecessary extension of the debate; this is a completely necessary extension of the debate. I notice that the Foreign Minister, after we have given her very much praise and support through this debate, needs to relate the entire answer to me. She does not say one word of what the representatives of the Progress Party have said in this debate, and that is typical of parliamentary developments in this government: the Progress Party is allowed to do what they have always done: say one thing, but do something else. Their whole political history is based on that strategy, and right-wing money laundering it through this way of acting, now also in foreign policy. I'm very sorry. It is contrary to the political tradition of the Right in this very important area.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e805	I didn't intend to take the word, but since we were most involuntaryly dragged into this discussion between the Right and the Labour Party, I had to do it anyway. I think we have this discussion every time we have a foreign policy statement, and with varying degrees of pathos, the index finger from the Workers' Party is directed towards the Progress Party, and from the Right to the SV. There is something strange there, because it is clear that the foreign minister thinks that when SV meant something, it was a concern, but when the Progress Party does it, it is quite okay. The point is this: it is informative, I believe, that it appears that parties in government also have different views. I have actually previously defended the representative Tybring-Gjedde's ability to tell about it. And all Carl I. Hagen said, I deeply disagree. If I'm going to describe what he said about climate change and my opinion about it, I have to resort to a series of unparliamentary expressions, so I'm not going to do that, but it's okay for me that he says this. I wish we could stop having that discussion every time we discuss foreign policy, and we can also discuss foreign policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e810	The representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e815	Isn't it strange that my constituents believed they chose Christian Tybring-Gjedde on the party program of the Progress Party? Isn't that weird? Is that understandable? Yeah, I think that's understandable. I don't think any of my constituents thought I would be elected to the Granavolden Declaration. Most of my voters probably didn't even know where the Granavolden was, I think. That doesn't mean we didn't compromise into a Granavolden statement. But don't forget that foreign policy is not something you can write down. It's not a highway or a tunnel to build. It's something that happens all the time. There is continuous movement in foreign policy. Brexit -- you can't write it down on a sheet. You can't write about the IS on a paper that will be valid for four years. There is movement in foreign policy. That is why there is also movement, discussion, in the government parties and within the parties in foreign policy. But the basics are fixed between the bourgeois parties. That's the belief in the Western Alliance and the United States and NATO. This is what is fundamental in foreign policy in Norway. Then we have emphasis on different things -- we perceive things differently. That must be understanding and accepted for.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e822	Carl I. Hagen has also spoken twice before in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e827	The representative Lightbakken said he disagreed with everything I had said. I respect that. I hope he respects that I now say that I agree with all that the Lighthouse said in the last article. So here we're completely in line. Then the representative said Kolberg that the Minister for Foreign Affairs allowed the representatives of the Progress Party to keep the statements they made. It is not up to either the Minister of Foreign Affairs or the Prime Minister or the Minister of Finance to approve in advance contributions to the representatives of the Progress Party. It is possible that Kolberg would wish it were so. It is possible that he also wanted it to be this way under the red-green government – that you should approve posts from SV and the Senterpartiet in advance. But what would the debate be like? Then you could send the Stortinget home after the government has been elected, and just let the government hold on. We have a controlling function, and we need to have a big deal where we have fresh political debates.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e834	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox At the request of the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee and of the Judicial Committee, the President shall propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice. 2–5 is treated as a single agent. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e885	At the request of the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee and the Justice Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that – within the allocated speaking time – up to six rows of replies are given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e894	These matters, No. 2–5 on today’s maps represent the adaptations we need to make to the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the EU. Nevertheless, the cases have a certain degree of sanctuarying, because the first two cases have topicality if the negotiated agreement between the UK government and the EU – miraculously, we must add today – should have a majority; then these two matters are relevant. The next two cases are based on the fact that there will not be an agreed withdrawal from the European Union for the United Kingdom. Time doesn't allow us to go deep here, but we can possibly come back and elaborate. I just want to say that all the settings are unanimous, and in three of the cases there are no particular comments from anyone, so it is promoted as the whole attitude of the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee. In Case No. 5 the Judicial Committee and its Advocate-General, Peter Frölich, will be able to make a presentation. Otherwise, it can only be seen that the government has been forward, as it is called, and negotiated on the basis of the eventualities that may arise, and that the content of the, first, withdrawal agreement has always been well-informed. Secondly, there is a reserve solution that regulates Norway’s relationship with the EU, not least in the areas that are important for Norway’s citizens in the United Kingdom, and, of course, it can also be added, for citizens of the United Kingdom who are in Norway. So these issues have a very practical purpose, and the grip on the last, i.e. the two issues that come about by the fact that there will be no agreement-based withdrawal from the EU for the United Kingdom, is such that it has been decided to make statements in the notebook, etc., that will keep the status quo in the legal relationship between the Kingdom of Norway and the United Kingdom. That's the whole purpose of these exercises. That is why there has not been any general party political disagreement on these issues, so I would also like to take the opportunity to thank my committee colleagues for excellent cooperation, and not least for flexible meeting times, so that we have been able to issue these cases, so that they can take effect no matter what happens in Westminster – but so that third parties, Norwegian citizens, UK citizens, do not get hurt by being stuck in a legal vacuum. It doesn't deserve our citizens, our businesses and our authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e905	I refer first to the rapporteur's presentation of the Committee's work and agree with what he said in his statement. That's how, as we all know, the uncertainty about brexit still exists in the United Kingdom – and probably will do it for a long time to come, I think. New votes this evening will hopefully provide some clarification on the further divorce process between the EU and the United Kingdom. In this unexplained situation, the first priority of the Norwegian authorities must be to take care of Norwegian interests, Norwegian workplaces, Norwegian companies, medicinal products for Norwegian patients, etc. Therefore, Norwegian authorities need powers to deal with this unforeseeableness, to act promptly when and if necessary. There's full agreement on this. But let me briefly, without exaggerating this warning – and I stress that I say without exaggerating this warning – remind you that the powers of a government also carry a certain risk that they will not be used properly, and in particular powers in such an unbridled situation as the brexit process now turns out to be. Agreements and obligations could be concluded at a rapid pace, agreements and obligations with consequences The size does not necessarily have the possibility of predicting in advance. Let me therefore end by stressing the Workers' Party's support for the decisions we are making today in these cases, but also stress that we on the part of the Workers' Party assume that the Government continues to keep the Storting informed and consulted in the further Brexit process, in a necessary and correct manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e918	Brexit is important for Norway, as the United Kingdom is an important part of Norwegian history and contemporary history. Following the Second World War, Norway and the United Kingdom stood together in the view of transnationality and in common interest in security and trade. Buildings on strong resistance to transnationalism created the United Kingdom and Norway EFTA in 1960 rather than entering the EEC. Later, Norway followed each time the British applied for membership, which was blocked several times by France. Norway also withdrew its applications. But after 1972 we chose to go our way, and the band got something looser. In addition to the United Kingdom, Germany, Sweden and several others emerged as major exporting countries for Norway. The United Kingdom is now again Norway’s most important trading partners, including the United Kingdom. Because of our large exports of oil and gas – and it is absolutely necessary that we negotiate a comprehensive bilateral trade agreement when brexit is a reality. The fact that the United Kingdom was to become a member of EFTA now – and thus also of the EEA – did not seem likely, as the EEA Agreement has developed to become such a comprehensive agreement, not least when it concerns immigration and accepted the EU's comprehensive internal market legislation. What the great majority would say about that matter on the table is uncertain, but it is not that one to the seventh and last would go against it, I believe, despite the great enthusiasm of the European Union. In today's situation, I'm worried about business. For maritime transport there is no clarification in the case of «hard brexit». The uroar managing director Harald Solberg of the Shipowners' Association, following the announcement of the E24 yesterday. The government has no power to find solutions, including solutions. for the more than 10 000 Norwegian ships in the United Kingdom. It's a big economy, and we can't underestimate the economic impact of such an uncertain situation. The Minister of Foreign Affairs said in an intervention under the previous case that she was amazed at the Central Party, and that it was impossible to present these matters earlier, that we could have avoided such an urgent procedure that we have now had. Well, as I said, we have – including earlier by this representative – known about Brexit for two years. I think that the export-right part of Norwegian business rather than wonder about the Center Party shares the uroa expressed by Harald Solberg in the Shipowners' Association, and that most of it is uncertain about a «hard brexit», for Norway's part. Whatever has been done or not, and the reason for this, we agree with all the other parties today that it is necessary to make the decisions that the Storting should make. The government is given the powers they request, but we expect them to be used only – and owned – for the best. We also expect that we will be given information on the use of powers, progress in work, and that we will have the opportunity – through information and through the consultations that have been carried out, and through issues that have been presented – to be involved in a discussion on a topic as important as our relationship with the United Kingdom in the coming years. It hastens the Storting, it hastens our relationship to a very important trading party and allied over many decades.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e935	The size of the budget is today to consider legislative proposals and decision-making in order to ensure a transitional period in connection with the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the EU. I believe that the rapporteur and also the representative of Mr Kolberg gave a good account of the content of this. As the representative of Kolberg said, the government needs powers to deal with the unforeseeableness that is now. It is unforeseeable that Norway has not contributed. This is beyond our control. Our job as a government is to help create as much calm and predictability as possible in a situation we do not have, because we do not sit and negotiate this announcement agreement or other relations between the EU and the United Kingdom. I am very pleased that the Storting has dealt with these matters quickly, and I am also very pleased to note that the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee in the vote expresses satisfaction with the proposition. We have, and we are, very close to the United Kingdom and the EU, and of course also to the other EEA countries, Liechtenstein and Iceland, in order to achieve the best possible solutions. It is important that we now have agreements both for the case, which I shall now immediately consider, that there will not be an orderly withdrawal from the EU for the United Kingdom, and that we also have the necessary institutional framework to deal with Norway's link to a transitional period, if that is the result. If a transitional period occurs, the state for all practical purposes will become like today, that we treat the United Kingdom as if it were an EU and EEA member for a period initially set to last until the end of 2020, but with the possibility of extension. The challenge is, of course, if we get into a situation where we don't have an orderly exit. I have both today and approx. monthly for months behind us, briefing the European Committee of the United Kingdom on the progress of the government's work on agreements with the United Kingdom if there is a withdrawal without an agreement. It surprises me a little bit that the Central Party in this debate repeats the claims they had in the foreign policy debate. The centre party and the representative of Navarsete attended the European Committee meeting early this morning and heard the sharp contrast between what Norway has done and what agreements have been reached. Let me therefore briefly repeat: perhaps the most important work we did was to secure an agreement for citizens' rights if there was a situation in which the United Kingdom did not have an orderly withdrawal. This is important for the approx. 20 000 Norwegian citizens who live and work in the United Kingdom, and that is important for them. 15 000 British living and working in Norway. The cancellation also deals with the consent of today to enter into an agreement to this effect. In the field of transport, we have a pre-negotiated and initial bilateral aviation agreement, which will ensure the continuation of current air traffic. We have also completed a bilateral road transport agreement with the United Kingdom that ensures market access for both freight and passenger transport. It is signed on Monday 18. For maritime transport, the United Kingdom has proposed an exchange of letters with mutual political declarations, which is also what Norway believes satisfies what we need. Negotiations are in progress in the area of fisheries management. For trade in goods, which is a large and important area, there was agreement between traders yesterday. There is still some ‘legal scrubbing’, i.e. some formalities in law and technology, but the agreement and the content are agreed upon. Norway and the United Kingdom then have a contractual basis for the continuation of trade in goods also in the case of ‘no deal’. This is the very few countries that have achieved, and that means, for example, that. continued duty-free access for industrial products. In this context, I can also mention that if the export of Norwegian gas had been subject to customs duties to the United Kingdom, it would amount to 550 million. kr per year. We are now avoiding this, with the agreement that has been concluded. All customs preferences and customs freedom shall be continued. Customs quotas which have granted free access to goods shall be continued. The agreement allows for the continuation of current trade in fish and agriculture and establishes a basis for negotiating a more comprehensive future free trade agreement, including trade in services. I therefore deeply disagree with what the Center Party is trying to say – once again – that the government does not have the power to find predictability for these areas. On the contrary, the government has done everything we can within the unpredictable frameworks that others have created, and we have created predictability for both citizens and businesses that are very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e958	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e963	In the previous reply, I asked the Council of State for quotas, to relate to developments now when the United Kingdom is no longer part of the EU. The Council of State then responds to the Article 19 negotiations, i.e. on agriculture. But what is perhaps most interesting when it comes to the quota negotiations is what is attached to the fisheries management – and, as has now been said from the spokesperson, there is talk about it. There is a question of principle, for today the EU is a body with which Norway has an agreement, and fisheries quotas, of course, apply to the EU as a whole. Is it the EU's will for the United Kingdom to have its share of EU quotas, or does the EU want to hold those quotas itself, and will Norway and the United Kingdom possibly have to negotiate new quotas?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e968	This is an area that is a very good example of the fact that, from the point of view of brexit, the government has entered into talks and negotiations to address some of the major and complex issues that naturally cannot be resolved until the United Kingdom is out of the EU, and the future relationship is to be maintained. Since 2016, therefore, we have been working on future cooperation between Norway, the EU and the United Kingdom in fisheries management. We are now gradually moving into a more operational negotiating phase. We are not going to talk here and now about negotiating positions, naturally enough, but both the whole and the structures of the fisheries agreements will be considered when designing these positions. One of the key areas for the future will be the issue of future allowances. It is an important part of the discussions with the EU and the United Kingdom. We already have an agreement that has been concluded for 2019 and which we want to last that year.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e977	I have a lot of understanding that one will not go into the specific agreements, of course, no one is asking for them either. But it would be of interest to hear what the government holds on this question, because it is a fundamental question that does not necessarily go directly into the negotiations. Is it true that Norway would think that the quotas currently in place and of which the United Kingdom has a large part, of course, since the United Kingdom is a larger fishing nation than many other countries in Europe, should be separated and be part of the negotiations to be held by Norway and the United Kingdom? That's actually a very big question. Because if they are still for the EU — Spanish trawlers and others — while the United Kingdom is going to have new quotas, we have a completely different situation. There's a question that hastens attention.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e982	And of course, attention will also be given when we are now on our way to a more operational negotiating phase. This is also an important issue on the agenda of the Minister for Fisheries, on which he is working a lot. But for obvious reasons, I do not want to go into what negotiating positions or what preliminary views Norway has about it. The important thing for us is that we set up this dialogue early, precisely because – as Mr Navarsete rightly says – this is a very important area for Norway. We wanted to be early in intervention with both the EU and the United Kingdom on this. This is simply because many of the agreements we have today, as we see working, are also important in future fisheries management. There is also a need to do some other things, but I want for negotiation reasons not to go into it right here and now.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e988	Can the Council of State then confirm that the government will come to the Storting and properly inform, as it is called, before entering into the more concrete negotiations in this area? This is such a big deal that here the Storting should also be involved before the government in a way locks its positions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e993	As the representative Navarsete has seen on the approx. The monthly meetings of the European Committee are rarely a lack of state councils that want to come and brief the European Parliament on current European policy issues, and in this case it is natural that the Minister for Fisheries should explain this in more detail. It's also a wish the government has, to keep the Storting well informed and involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e998	Let me just say briefly that we are also satisfied that we are now getting these decisions that are preparing Norway better for Brexit. The debate we had in place was somewhat marked by the fact that there is still some confusion in Norwegian policy and in Norwegian public opinion about what is actually happening in the United Kingdom, where the divorce agreement is now being discussed. However, we are going to assume that the United Kingdom will somehow leave the EU, and then the question of which future trade agreements to regulate the relationship between the EU and the United Kingdom will seriously come to the table. It is also a very important issue for Norway. I could therefore imagine asking the Council of State: What does the government now think about the position and role of Norway when they start negotiations – at some point –?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e1007	This is also a major and important question, and on the part of the government, we have stressed very clearly that we want to keep a trade relationship as close and friction-free as possible with the United Kingdom. This is an unusually important trading partner for Norway. We wish – among other things through what we propose in Stortinget today about the transition period – to continue as much as possible of what we have today. But then there will be changes when the British leave the EU, there is no doubt about it, and we also have to deal with that. As long as the British have not yet begun negotiating their future relationship with the EU, we also do not know exactly how close and how extensive it will be, and how much of what we can mirror or connect to, for example. through the EEA Agreement. It would be beneficial if we could do it in some areas, because it creates predictability. But we are also fully prepared and prepared to enter into our own free trade agreements with the United Kingdom covering most of the areas currently covered by the EEA Agreement. I also see very clearly that on the British side it is a similar desire to achieve a close and close trade relationship, and as friction-free as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e1014	I agree. Then there will also be a question of what role and view Norway should have on the nature of a final trade agreement between the EU and the United Kingdom, precisely because it will have so much to say for us too. Does the government think that it would be natural for Norway to take a view of what a good form of agreement between Norway and the United Kingdom is? And if Norway is to have it, would it be natural to have a debate on it in the Storting first?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e1019	I think we should all respect the fact that Norway is not an EU member, and therefore we do not participate in the negotiations, although some of us would naturally wish we were. It also means that our influence over what agreements the EU and the United Kingdom will eventually reach is small. That being said, the government has very clearly stated that we believe the best in the current phase would be an orderly withdrawal, i.e. with a transitional agreement, because it would also serve our interests best and create the most predictability. However, we are very aware that there is an outcome that is not necessarily given, especially after the discussions of the last weeks, and that is also why we have negotiated these other agreements from the very beginning because if there is a case of withdrawal without agreement. So I think that the most important thing for Norway is to look at how we can best take care of Norwegian interests, either by reflecting part of the agreement that comes about between the United Kingdom and the EU, or by other means negotiate our own agreements, and they will naturally also be the subject of discussion in the United Kingdom.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e1030	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e1035	Initially, I would like to thank the Storting for having dealt with the propositions quickly. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs has explained, there is still considerable uncertainty as to whether the United Kingdom will exit the EU, with or without a call-out agreement, and whether withdrawal will take place on or after 29 March. It is important, therefore, that we are prepared for all eventualities. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has presented his proposals in relation to a situation where there will be an EU-UK call-out agreement, which includes a transitional period. I will now present my proposals, mainly related to a situation in which the United Kingdom leaves the EU without a call-out agreement. As you know, the proposition is divided into a bill piece and a bill piece of consent. I would first like to say a few words about the legislative proposals. First, the government has proposed a regulatory body allowing the government to lay down rules on matters affected by the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the EU. Regulations based on this provision will only take effect if the United Kingdom withdraws from the EU without an announcement agreement providing for a transitional period. Unless otherwise decided by the EU and the United Kingdom, this can already be done on 29 March. The regulatory body could be used both to lay down rules for the implementation of bilateral agreements with the United Kingdom, the implementation of decisions relating to the EEA or to Schengen from the EU or to purely national measures. I consider it important that the government in this way be given the opportunity to lay down measures to mitigate the negative effects of any withdrawal without an exit agreement. Furthermore, the Government proposes a regulatory home in the Foreign Affairs Act that will be used to provide regulations to ensure continued residence in Norway for British citizens who are legally resident in Norway under the EEA Agreement rules on the free movement of persons while the United Kingdom is leaving the EU. The government is committed to ensuring the right of residence in Norway for this group regardless of the outcome of the EU-UK negotiations. Two different agreements have been negotiated with the United Kingdom, which have rules on the continued right of residence: one reflecting the relevant parts of the EU-UK callout agreement, and one with limited agreement in the event that the United Kingdom withdraws from the EU without a callout agreement. The statutory home may be used to implement the rules for residence under both of these agreements. I now proceed to the agreement on citizens' rights. I consider this an important agreement, both to safeguard the rights of Norwegian citizens in the United Kingdom, and to provide clarity for British citizens who have the right of residence in Norway today. I am therefore pleased that the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee has unanimously agreed that the Storting should give prior consent to the conclusion of this agreement. The proposal states that there are no expected changes to the agreement and that the text will be resubmitted to the Stortinget in the event of significant changes. I would like to inform the House that some minor changes have been made to the text in relation to the text attached to the proposal. First of all, there have been some purely linguistic changes. Furthermore, an amendment to Article 13 has been made to ensure that our obligations under this Agreement are consistent with our obligations under the Schengen cooperation. None of the changes are considered significant. Once again, I would like to thank the Stortinget for a quick treatment and hope that the Stortinget will take decisions in accordance with the positions of the Justice Committee and the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e1056	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e1061	I also want to thank the Committee for its goodwill through the rapid treatment we have implemented. I may have leisure problems, but I have spent disproportionately many nights and nights watching videos from the British Parliament on the Brexit negotiations. You could say a lot about what's going on, but at least they have it more lively than what we have, there can't be much doubt about it. But clearly, it's not. It is very difficult to hang on to the turns of what is happening from day to day. That's why I think the proposition that's ahead of us is good, and the work that's done in the department and in the other departments is impressive. It's a very good solution -- it's done a good job both with the proposition and with the corresponding agreements. Wide powers are given, and it is not entirely unproblematic to do so, but it is time-limited. The government says they'll come back with the necessary legal work if necessary, and that's very good. For us who want a strong United Kingdom, a strong Europe and good relations with our friends both places, it's a little sad to see what's happening. We must be honest about that. It is alarming that there are forces in Norway that look at this and nevertheless think that Norway should have a future without the EEA Agreement. I understand what the representative Lighthouse says about the difference in hue. However, the intention that Norway should withdraw from such a good agreement is very clear. Then I am very interested – and I think there are many others who are interested – in hearing what they see as an alternative. What is this super-agreement that you're looking at? I think Theresa May would have been very happy for some advice if there's someone sitting on a secret fascist about how this should be done. Unfortunately, I don't think it's that simple. I think we should be happy, despite all the fact that we have the agreement we have. It must also be allowed to hope that the legislation we put up today, never sees the light of day – that you either find a solution, or that it may even never become something of a brexit. But if it's going to be a hard landing, we have to be clear. That's what we're doing with this proposition, and that's what the government needs to pay tribute to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e1085	The government has come to Stortinget recently little before Brexit and asks for permission to do anything close to any of the department's responsibilities. This includes actions that differ from the current law. This procedure testifies that the government party has not done the preliminary work that we could expect them to have done. I understand that there is a very complex situation, and that it has been demanding to get an overview of any consequences of brexit. However, this does not excuse the passivity we have seen from the government in this matter. The government could have made sure to be more responsive to Britain and led a self-reliant Norwegian strategy in this matter. The Central Party has repeatedly pointed out that in the interests of Norwegian interests, the government must present a strategy for different scenarios for Brexit – and for how this should be handled. It is in Norwegian interest that the relationship with the United Kingdom is as clear as possible in the event that it becomes non-agreementable. It's all about the business life, and we've been listening here about fishing, and about quotas in particular. For citizens, this lack of medicines is also important, as we have now seen several examples. Many could be done to smooth the transition by using a hard brexit. The lack of preparation for the government has now seen us in a difficult situation. In the proposition, the ministry refers to several challenges to which no solution has been outlined. Among other things, it is pointed out that a non-arranged brexit can lead to a lack of medicinal products in Norway, at a time when the lack of medicinal products in the country is already a high risk – historically high. It is not acceptable that Norway is set up in such a situation. It is important to establish agreements for further cooperation with the United Kingdom after Brexit. The government has to make sure that these appointments are put in place as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e1092	I thought I would not accept the invitation to a new round of the EEA debate now, because we had that on the agenda case no. 1 today, so we've already discussed that thoroughly. I just want to remind the Right and the representative Frølich that one cannot continue both to demand a response to what the option to the EEA is, and to accept all the suggestions to investigate the alternatives. Now there is a proposal from the Storting to investigate the alternatives to the EEA, so if the Right is now eager to get the answers on the table, I suggest that they vote in favour of our proposal on that. I'm expecting that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e1097	I just couldn't stop taking the word after the last post from the Center Party. I do not know whether there is a lack of recognition of the facts, or whether the post was completed several months ago – in case the government had not done a job – but it is unusually uninformed, and it is directly wrong what comes from the representative. So there has been no passivity on the part of government. Since Brexit was a fact, we have been negotiating to ensure Norwegian interests as best we can. And it's not that today there's an uncertainty about what the result is going to be in central areas, because that's what we've been negotiating about. The only thing we can't control is what the relationship between the EU and the United Kingdom is, and what kind of way out of the EU finally chooses the United Kingdom. Of course, it will have an effect on whether we have a transitional period, or whether we have to go straight to the agreements we have negotiated, because in that case it will not be a transitional period. In the case of lack of medicinal products, the Ministry of Health and the Swedish Medical Products Agency are now working to identify this. I have been briefing on this in the Committee on Europe earlier, several months ago, and it is also in the regulatory home that we are to adopt today, an opportunity to use this home for necessary measures. It is also the case that when two parties are to negotiate, both parties must have the capacity to negotiate at the same time. We are not the only British negotiators, and I think one should have some respect for the fact that the British have limited negotiating capacity when they now have to deal with all aspects of brexit, first and foremost the relationship with the EU and the good handling of brexit. This means that the agreements we have concluded, whether for a transitional period or for the scenario without a transitional period, cover the most important areas for Norway, for citizens' rights, for business, and this is something we have close dialogue with business. The business community experiences that we both take responsibility and take seriously the concerns they have had, and they are well pleased with what the government has done to ensure the best possible agreements. So I have to make a little visit to the point that we should spend the time presenting strategies for the different scenarios. We don't have the opportunity to spend time on that. Instead, what we have spent time negotiating the specific agreements, so that when the United Kingdom leaves the EU, whether it be 29 March or later, whether it be with an agreement or without, we are clear, we have laid the groundwork for taking care of Norwegian interests. I am quite surprised that the Central Party believes that we should spend time at a strategy seminar instead of using our resources to negotiate to take care of Norwegian interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e1110	When we worked on this matter, we noticed that in the United Kingdom there was criticism of the UK U.D. because they had to negotiate 30 provisional agreements with this reserve sign – we have 4 today – for Norway, and the UK U.D. was criticized for only 6 of the 30 agreements being country. There was no one there who came up with it would have the idea that it was those who stood on the outside and needed a regulated relationship with the United Kingdom, who was compromising in this, and it was also not used as a defense from the British U.K. when they said, "No, we haven't got hold of the others." The explanation was precisely, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs was also concerned, that this is a very pressured official apparatus that works under high pressure. The presentation given here today will not be consistent with the realities, but will be more adapted to a reality that can be understood if you are in uncritical search for arguments against the government. But I don't think it makes the representatives honour to use simply misrepresentation of facts, and so twisted facts, as a basis for criticising the government. However, when I have to speak here, I must also say: we are now giving a legal basis to the government, and it is mentioned that they are getting quite by regulation. So we know from the past that the Storting does not have an overview of how the government manages its delegated legislative powers – for the purpose of providing regulations, it is delegated legislative powers. The Control and Constitutional Committee carries out, heroically, a random check, but the application of regulations is so large that it is not a matter for the Storting to control this one by one. I could imagine hearing the Foreign Minister’s view on whether, in this case – since they are so widely authorized, and they should support the practical needs here – once everything has calmed down, they are willing to report together to the Stortinget, for example. to the Control Committee, to say how these funds were used. For that reason, the national Parliament also has a certain control — at least a back-up — over the use of this mandate.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e1117	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 2-5.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e1133	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that up to five lines of reply are given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e1142	I would like to thank the Committee on Cooperation on an important matter. When the people who are to be close to you fail and become the greatest threat to living safely and well, it is such a heavy burden that in various ways it causes serious physical and mental problems for the person it happens — problems that can often last for life. Abuse, choice and abuse in close relationships also constitute a major social and public health problem, and not least the serious violation of basic human rights. This type of crime has increased in recent years, including: through the escalation plan against violence and abuse, which was agreed in the Spring 2017 Stortinget. The Stairs Plan contains a number of measures, including: responsibilities, coordination and cooperation, prevention, competence and knowledge, the provision of assistance and treatment and legal certainty. So far, it's worth nearly 900 million. kr for follow-up of the plan. It is an explicit objective that issues relating to abuse, choice and sexual abuse in close relationships are reported and thoroughly investigated by the police and a rapid handling of the judicial system. In its circular, the National Attorney has instructed the police to give priority to such matters if time and resources are scarce. The police themselves are expressing that the increase in the level of privacy restrictions is worrying, and this is, of course, a concern we share. But it is also a desirable development because the dark valley has ours and is still great, and we must therefore see it as positive that today we are more fully discovering this type of serious crime. Better tools, new work methods, information campaigns and digital information pages of the police, and not least increase the competence of cooperating actors, have created a greater awareness of how to detect abuse and sexual abuse and/or help violence and assault to take the step to seek help. The available framework for children’s homes, with medical examinations and organised defecations for children under 16 years of age, has increased from about 30 million. SEK in 2014 to SEK 238 million. kr in 2018. In the Granavolden platform, it is stated that children's houses should also be strengthened in the future. Municipalities and health professionals have established professional access points where persons who have been sexually assaulted and elected in close relationships may receive the necessary physical and mental health care, and where the quality of track safety and damage documentation has a better basis for police investigation, prosecution and assessment of victims of violence. The legal security of victims in these cases has been significantly strengthened in recent years. In 2015, new criminal laws entered into force and resulted in a number of changes in the level of penalties for this type of crime. Among other things, the punishment for serious abuse in close relationships was raised from six to fifteen years in prison, and the penalties for gross evasion of minors were raised from three to six years. Selected in close relationships will require continuous political attention and will be a highly priority area for the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The Granavolden Platform states that police resources for the prevention and investigation of violence, sentencing and sexual assault should be strengthened and better cooperation between police, school, health services, family protection, child protection and other relevant actors should be facilitated. The Government Party has undertaken to pursue a holistic and offensive policy in this area. Yesterday, an important report was submitted by a working group set up by the Ministry of Justice and Defence, the rent of First State Attorney Katharina Rise at the Ministry of Justice and Defence. A comprehensive analysis has been carried out which could provide a basis for improving police, prosecutors and courts’ handling of cases of violence and sexual abuse against children. The analysis has a special focus on routines and bottlenecks that prevent effective case flow. The analysis identifies the improvement point and suggests 25 concrete measures. The impression so far is that this report constitutes a solid work with a comprehensive knowledge base, into which I look to go closer. Right, the Progress Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party do not support the proposals on the subject. The government already has a major focus on this subject and has launched significant actions that will be prioritised in the future. The Committee's proposal for Decision I, to ask the government to consider whether it should be granted a narrower access to derogate from the general rule that all witnesses under the age of 16 should be given the right to be heard in criminal proceedings, is also seen as a mark, see. Letter from the Minister of Justice to the Committee of 22 February.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e1178	There has been an explosion in the number of cases dealing with violence in close relationships in recent years. So far, unfortunately, the government has not followed up this serious development with sufficient resources. But it is promising that the theme will be discussed in several places in the Granavolden Declaration. On the part of the Workers' Party, we would like to stress that the declaration bears a promise and is creating expectations that this area will be given a strong priority in the future. Police statistics show that the number of sexual, social and incriminating cases involving children between 14 and 16 years of age has increased by 182.3 pst. since 2013. At the same time, the police districts responsible for investigating cases have been given less economic space under the right-hand regime. Action against violence and abuse in close relations now needs a clear and strong strengthening. When violence and abuse occur in and around our families, this is not just a serious problem for the affected, but it is a social problem, and it is a serious crime. Abuse and violence make children and adults ill, have serious consequences for people's lives, and the costs for individuals and society as a whole are significant. Organised interrogations with children in children’s homes have been, and are, very positive for the children concerned, for their legal certainty and for their safety. Nevertheless, we record that the police spend a lot of resources on organised interrogations, and that in a few cases this may be disproportionate. That is why we support and support the proposal for a decision that deals with a narrower access to make exceptions to the general rule. The Labour Party considers that it is essential for victims of violence in close relationships that police districts and children’s homes have sufficient capacity at all times to carry out organised interrogations, within the time limit set, and that abuses of children and adults should be prioritised and that these cases should not remain pending in the system. Therefore, in order to ensure adequate resources and the implementation of organised interrogations at children’s homes, we believe that good travel arrangements are of great importance and provide a framework around those who follow victims of interrogations, such as compensation for lost earnings, which we have also received feedback on when the Committee has been travelling and meeting employees at children’s homes. Two years have passed since the government received a crushing report from the Children’s Violence Committee. Today we see that there is strong criticism from the Children's Ombudsman, Save Children and members of the sample who believe that the report has not been followed up. The Labour Party has on several occasions lifted and promoted measures to combat violence in close relations, but the right-wing government has hidden behind this so-called escalation plan. It's far from concrete enough, it's not funded, and it's met with a lot of criticism. The working party had up to 1 billion. kr in our alternative state budgets to combat violence in close relations. The former child minister was clear in his feedback to the report of the child violence committee, failure and betrayal, which points to issues where children have been subjected to gross violence, sexual assault and serious care failure, and that it could have been prevented. Despite the sincere commitment of the then Minister of Children, it is now felt as if it were. That is why the Workers' Party is pleased with the SV's draft document 8, which follows up in a good way the previous debates we have had on this topic during this period in this Chamber. I'm addressing the proposal Workers' Party is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e1197	The representative of Aasen-Svensrud has addressed the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e1202	Violence and abuse are a serious social problem, but it is also a public health problem. We know that abuse, violence and abuse have serious consequences for the individual affected by it, and for the relatives, but also for society as a whole. That is why it is important that we take this seriously. I welcome the debate here today, because this is a topic that we cannot debate often enough. It is important that we politicians put this on the agenda for the future. That's why, like the rest of the committee, I'm glad that we've had a marked increase in the number of sexual offences reported. However, it is demanding, and it is important – as I said – that we are constantly receiving political attention about this. I'm glad that the government that we've had now, the Solberg government, if I can take it with me from 2013 onwards, has had a strong commitment to combating violence and violence against children and violence in close relationships. I heard the representative from the Workers' Party claim that nothing has been done. I would nevertheless claim that there are no governments in the last decades who have done more in this field than the Solberg government. Still, we're not in the goal. But at the same time, one of the most important things we can do to combat violence and assault, to contribute to prevention, is to gain more knowledge, it is to investigate, and it is not least to follow up those who have been exposed. To the escalation plan: Yes, we can criticise it for not being enough money. I don't think there'll ever be enough money in this field. But at the same time, there is no government that has committed itself more to following up this field than this government through the escalation plan. The great effort that has been made in prevention, in the family protection offices, in health centres and in children’s homes is also important in the work being done out there. I am equally concerned that the report, failure and betrayal, which was cruel reading, is being followed up. I also record that the government says very clearly that this has been at the hearing, and it is now working to follow up that report, and I would also like to say it very clearly to the government that I expect that that report will also be followed up in the future. We saw that one of the most important things in the report that came was that we have to talk to children, we have to talk to them about it. It's about the knowledge of those who work in kindergartens, of those who work in health centres, of those who work in schools, and of those who work in child protection. It's dry to take the difficult conversations, it's asking the difficult questions. Because we know that we can get answers that we don't like, and then those who work with children and young people out there need to know what to do when they get those answers. That is why I am pleased that knowledge has come into play, both in kindergarten education, in school education and also in health and social education. Police are among those who play an important role, both in research and in the work being done there. I would say that the police reform – as we have now done – is helping to improve the professional environment of the police, enabling the police to investigate effectively, collect evidence and help. Then we know that the follow-up is important, and the Progress Party has been a champion to put in place victim care offices – now it's called the Crime Victims Advisory Offices. I read this week that only last year there were 2,094 who contacted these support centres. It shows that there is a great need for these offices, because you can manage to follow up the victims right from the notification and until a judgment comes. Thus, during the investigation, a person can provide help and guidance in a very demanding situation. The parties do not support the SV proposal. It is not because we do not agree with many of the proposals that lie there, but these are proposals that are already well under way, these are proposals that the government is working on. I am pleased that both the Granavolden platform and the work already in progress have a high priority in the government and in the state councils working on this. However, we should not settle down on everything that has been done, because we know that every day we can read that there are difficult situations. But it's a good job going on.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e1223	First, I would like to thank the proposers for addressing important issues. As the representative Horne said, this is not something we can talk about too often. It'll never be enough. In recent years, there has been an explosion in the number of issues relating to violence in close relations, and the Central Party believes that it is a major challenge that it has not been met by sufficient resources from the government. The centre party is concerned about the low percentage of information on serious crime such as abuse, violence and sexual abuse in close relationships. We support some of the proposals that have been promoted, but we also believe it is important to stress that more designation and more targets for police work are not the right solution to the problems raised in this proposal for a representative. I'll get back to that. Violence and abuse in close relationships can happen, and happens, anywhere. That's why we need to have a police and a support device that's visible and that has the capacity to prevent and investigate where people live. Victims of partner violence or children who are attacked by their very closest are also people — they are also citizens of the city and district. Action against violence and abuse in close relationships must be comprehensive. Family protection offices, children’s homes, child protection and the community, as well as school staff, are important to detect and combat violence and abuse in close relationships. However, the Central Party also agrees that police officers need to be well trained in the tools of PATRIARK and SARA, and that adequate implementation of these needs to be ensured in the use of them in the police districts. The centre party also believes that there is a need to set up several children’s or children’s homes. Today, many children have to travel far in order to be interrogated in violent and criminal proceedings, and that is a huge extra burden. The children’s home satellite set up in Förde is a good example for follow-up, and the Center Party has, among other things, proposed to establish a Kristiansund Children's House Satellite in its alternative budget. So I'll go into what we disagree about. The Central Party believes the police are underfunded and missing people. This is the main problem – the main problem is not that we do not have enough earring. We believe that more designation, more measurement and detail management are really not the right way to go. The centre party has high confidence that the police can prioritize the money within their limits. The problem is that the frames are too tight. I would say that we have very good, if not excellent, competence in violence in close relations in many police districts. The knowledge is there, the working methods are there, and the teams are there. But the problem is that they don't have enough people in those teams to get away from the crowd, and to be able to prevent enough incidents. Police statistics show that the number of cases involving sexual activity, intercourse and infringing behaviour against children between 14 and 16 years of age has increased by over 180 pst. since 2013. At the same time as that increase has taken place, the police districts responsible for investigating matters have had less economic space under the government of Solberg. An activity analysis by BDO and Menon Economics in 2017 pointed out that the economic space for police districts has been significantly reduced since the Right and Advance Party went to government six years ago. Increased earring is one of the reasons. Therefore, the Central Party believes that we have to be careful to introduce even more earmarking within the existing framework, because this in itself will not lead to the police getting any more capacity. The centre party proposed 500 million. to the police districts in their alternative budget. It's an increase that would have improved the local police and strengthened the units that work with violence in close relationships. Violence and abuse in close relationships is a very cruel burden. It's about children and partners who are failing by their very closest, in many cases by their caregivers. Those who were supposed to be careful and protect from the environment are instead those who take advantage and abuse. The costs of it are enormous, both for society and for the individual, and the Senter Party thinks we have to go into that fight with full strength. Finally, I would like to mention a proposal from the Centre which has helped to promote, to look at the rules governing the implementation of organised hearings, and which I am very pleased that the majority of the Committee has supported in its position. More children's homes and organised interrogations have been very good to strengthen children's legal certainty. There has been a large increase in the number of organised hearings in recent years, but it is also seen that the police spend a lot of resources on it, and in some cases disproportionately many resources in relation to the nature of the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e1248	I am, of course, also pleased that we are having this debate, even if it is too sparse. This is about the fate of thousands of women in Norway, women who don't feel well at all, and I believe that the Storting could do much, much more to take responsibility for their lives. The core of this debate is not whether we agree or disagree on what to do with violence in close relations. It's about whether we're willing for the Storting to intervene in an almost hopeless situation for the many thousands of women and children out there, and about the alarm we get from the police, that they can't handle these matters in a good enough way. Everyone here says it's bad, what's happening. Expressions here are used as it is important that it be given priority and that the government prioritises. This has to be taken seriously, I hear, etc. At the same time, there is little will in this room to use the strongest governance instrument in Norway, namely the Storting, to save the lives of these people. The most dangerous thing for a human being is to be at home. That's where we're being seriously attacked. We're not going to spend a lot of time on it right now, but there's been a dramatic increase in the number of reports in the area of violence in close relationships. The picture of crime in Norway is changing. Traditional crime, such as violence, economic crime, etc., goes down – in this area it goes up. The question is, is the police okay to convert to the new crime scene, or are they stuck in an old way of working? They may be stuck in an old way of working, when we see that they themselves report that they're doing just 33 pst. of the cases. In some police districts they manage to produce only about. 20 pst. of the cases. In other words, a brave woman who for many years has lived a horrible life with a brutal husband, and who has gone to the brave step to report, risks – in the president's area, Drammen, eight out of ten women – getting a passive letter from the police that the case is closed. That's simply not good enough. The National Attorney asks that the police be much, much clearer about this, and that this be given priority. I think it's not enough to say, as the Center Party does, that the police need more resources. There must be a willingness to criticise the police's own use of resources. At this time last year, the police with 30 policemen and six cars were sending out a family of children in the middle of the night. These 30 policemen had to spare two days afterwards, and it costs a lot of money, in the form of various supplements, for the local police district. Where and is it a proper disposal? If you read Stavanger Aftenblad, you see that the police get quite strong criticism that they are running after young people who have hash in their pockets. Is that a proper priority? I fully agree that the police should have more resources, but at the same time we must dry up criticising the police for their own priorities. That is why I am concerned that we should also dry up the use of stronger means of governance, and even go to the step of asking for earmarked funds – and perhaps even for some degree of detailed governance, as the government and government parties are absolutely willing to do when it comes to throwing out asylum seekers who are staying illegally in this country. Then there is no resistance in government parties to detail control. But in this area, family violence, you don't have to control the details. What's worse? Is it that thousands of families live at home in hopeless and violent conditions, or is it that there are some families who live illegally here in the country? Why don't we have to rule in detail to save these women and children, when at the same time we manage to throw out asylum seekers' families who are illegal in this country? What I am presenting with this proposal, and which is partly supported by the Workers' Party – I am very pleased about this – is that we now have to earmark resources for the police. This is how we can take care of what the Advocate General also says, that the police should give priority to these matters, that the police should give priority to these matters before anything else. In front of everything else – in front of throwing out asylum seekers, in front of running after young people who have hashish in their pockets – it is these things that have to be given priority, and then we have to earmark funds. And we also have to control the details and dry out criticising the police for crazy priorities. With that, I'll take up SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e1269	The representative Petter Eide has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e1274	Violence and abuse against children and young people are one of the most cruel and shocking things there is, and we politicians have a great responsibility to do what we can to protect our children and young people and to make things right, so that the unbeing is combated. The Christian People's Party will fight for a warmer society, a society where children and young people, women and men, can live free lives without fear of violence and abuse. In the last period, the Christian People's Party promoted a proposal for a representative in which we asked the government to present a comprehensive plan of escalation. We then referred to a model in mental health that had already been presented by former Minister of Health Dagfinn Højbräten. That model is well usable. The conditions that are included in this proposal are therefore almost a copy of what the Christian People's Party has fought for for a long time. In this way, they should be grateful for their impatience. It's probably a cross-political will to address these issues. Speaking of cross-policy, it is also important to ensure a multidisciplinary dimension of the actions now being rigged, coordination and a long-term commitment to increased funding and earmarked resources to combat the obscurity. That is why it is good that this plan has come. It's systematic, and it's committed to this. The Christian People's Party records that there is a dramatic increase in the number of sexual offences reports. At the same time, we knew that there were large numbers of darkness, and increased focus on the issues and increased research efforts may indicate that there are now more people who dare to report. That's good. It is important that broad efforts continue as a priority area, both politically and politically. Both in the Granavolden platform and in practice, in the government's ongoing work, we are helping to maintain and strengthen this pressure. The Christian People's Party is pleased that there is a significant pressure from an aggregate accumulation, and thus a recognition that this is a significant social problem. We are voting against the opposition's proposal today, but we are doing so with the assurance that this is being followed up in the best possible way already. At the latest in the current year’s budget, efforts were significantly enhanced, in the light of that escalation plan. Not least, I am also sure that our Minister for Children's Affairs and Family Affairs, Kjell Ingolf Ropstad, will have this in focus within his important work area. We also support the comment that there can be a narrow decoration of the requirement that child witness interviews be held in children's homes. However, this must only be done when it is sound and appropriate and not at the expense of the child’s legal certainty. There's a broad consensus on this, we're recording it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e1291	The crime scene is changing. Since 2014, there has been an increase in the number of reports of violence, abuse and sexual offences. In the latter category, the increase is a total of 75 pst. Many of the cases are labour-intensive and complex and challenge both the police’s capacity and the police’s competence. There is no single factor explaining why the number of cases has increased so much. The increase is a combination of several factors: A sustained focus of civil society and government has contributed to greater public transparency about this crime. More people report to the police and the backup unit. At the same time, there is a sharp increase in the amount of issues that occur via the Internet. The leadership provided by the State budget, the letter of allocation and the Riksadvokat's objectives and priorities are very clear on the priority of serious crime. Abuse in close relationships and violence and sexual abuse against children is in this category. It is important both for the individual subject and for the purposes of clarifying the case that the investigation is initiated quickly, and that the total duration of the proceedings, from notification to the final investigation, is as short as possible. It may be difficult to ensure high clarification of this type of case, and in many cases the evidence situation will be challenging. This could be done, for example, by: for cases where the criminal offence reported is somewhat delayed in time. In other cases, there will be a lack of technical evidence or witnesses to support the explanations provided by the parties involved. There will also be cases where offended persons do not wish to contribute to the disclosure of the case because of the close relationship with the perpetrator. High clearance rates require good quality in the investigation. The Directorate of Police, in cooperation with the National Attorney General, has drawn up an action plan for the lifting of the field of investigation. The plan contains a number of measures that will develop the research subject and help to improve the quality of research in the future than today. Safe witnesses are good witnesses and contribute to more effective criminal proceedings. The establishment of support centres for victims of crime in all police districts helps to safeguard insults in the process, from a police report until the decision is made. It is important that victims of violence have the necessary confidence that the police and the prosecution authority will take their case seriously, although in some cases it is not possible to resolve the matter. I believe that the proposal to establish a governance tool with targets for police work on violence in close relations has been implemented through the structure we have already established. We are operationalising our priorities, objectives and requirements in letters of assignment to the Police Directorate. For 2019, an activity-specific target for effective, high-quality criminal proceedings has been set. The associated management parameters and performance requirements are related to process time, clearance percentage and balances. In addition, the National Advocate provides, through annual circulars, guidance on the areas to be prioritised. The Chief of Police is responsible for giving priority to priority cases if there is a shortage of resources. In the context of the implementation of the close police reform, all police districts are to establish their own professional environments on economic crime, trafficking in human beings, violence in close relations and sexual abuse. The Police Directorate reports that all police districts now have their own teams, sections, sections — with dedicated personnel. Designation of means of action to ensure high priority may, in many contexts, appear to be an effective tool. However, the challenge facing the police is constantly changing, and a designation will not provide the necessary space for action to give priority to the resources that are most needed at all times. Nor will it reflect the fact that needs vary between districts. According to my opinion, the police's activities are managed most appropriately according to the objectives and requirements of the letter of assignment, together with the related management parameters and performance requirements. Each police district has its own children's home and capacity has been further strengthened in 2019. The total allocation to children's homes is now 250 million. kr annually. In my opinion, before deciding on the establishment of several children's homes, there is a need for an evaluation of the situation. Such evaluation shall include both capacity and competence and the ministry shall complete a tendering procedure in those days. I have also started a work to assess the need for a change in the Criminal Procedures Act on child questioning and other particularly vulnerable insults and witnesses. The work will include assessments of exemptions from the general rule that all witnesses under the age of 16 should have organised hearings in criminal matters. I would also like to mention that I have just received a report from the working group that has looked at cases of violence and abuse at the police and the court. The work group's proposals for action will be an important basis for further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e1328	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e1333	Abuse and violence against children are serious crimes and should therefore be given the highest priority by the Minister of Justice. Two years have passed since the government received a crushing report from the Children’s Violence Committee. When we see today there is strong criticism from the Children's Ombudsman, from the Red Child and from members of the sample, who believe that the report has not been followed up, does the Council take this criticism seriously? And how will the Council of State specifically follow up the report?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e1338	I can assure you that we will take the report seriously. I can assure you that the report is an important basis in all the dialogues we have with the police and in all the governance directives that we draw up. So the report is taken seriously, but there's also every reason to work on the issues that come out in the report, in a further follow-up. A report like this becomes part of the ordinary police work. But once again, it's important to remember that there's a reason we want such a report, there's a reason why we want to keep this in focus, and it's because we see such a strong growth in this area that we probably need to have more information to get, and we have to be clear to the police that these issues should be given priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e1343	I record that I did not fully receive a response on how the Council of State sees fit to follow up the report in concrete terms, but left it at this point. In the budgetary agreement, the Government agreed to earmark funds for the investigation of violence and abuse. The working party is generally skeptical about earmarking funds, but not when it comes to issues relating to violence and child abuse. In view of the agreement reached in the budgetary agreement, does the Council agree with the assessment by the Government Parties in the Committee not to support the proposal now underpinned by the Workers' Party and the SV to ensure a funding model in which funds are earmarked for the investigation of notified family violence?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e1350	I share the opinion that the government parties have expressed in the setting. Then I want to say two things in general: as the Council of State, I will always follow the instructions and the ringings that come from Stortinget. It's a matter of course. That's the one. That's why I want to base such budgetary allocations, and I think it's quite useful to have such rounds when discussing budgets, and not all the time in a year. We have committed to a budgetary process in Stortinget. Then we decide on the size of the allocation, and you also decide what to prioritize and what to label. Then I realize that the opposition wants to repeat part of the budget debate throughout the year, but it is more tidy to make these rounds in connection with the budget. Therefore, I support the government parties when they say that this time they do not want to place such leadership.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e1357	A little over a month ago, the NRK asked the investigators in all the twelve police districts whether they think the manning is good enough to be able to investigate all the child violence cases. Seven out of twelve investigators thought there were too few people, while child violence is increasing. The League of Police described it as an unsustainable situation. Then my question is to the Minister: Will the Minister agree with the description that there is an unsustainable situation? And in that case, what does he want to do with it?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e1362	We've recently got new figures for the police in Norway. They show that we've never had as many policemen as we have in relation to the population now. There's been an incredible build-up of the police, there's been an incredible stake in it. So it is that, despite the fact that crime in some areas is falling, it has had an explosive growth in other areas. 30 pst. Of the police resources goes to 3 pst. of the cases. This applies, inter alia, to: these matters. That's the twist and transition that you need to prioritize, but that's also the result of us prioritizing the police. Several people report rape, we reveal several cases, not least online, because we have a police force specializing in this new type of crime. So it's also part of the success of police reform that we reveal more of this kind of crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e1369	Yes, but in the case of investigation: the police reform has led to a deterioration in the investigation capacity in many police districts, because local investigators have been centralised into larger units, or have been used by those who were good in research locally, to teach others, or have been taken into central units. In More and Romesdal, for example, there is a complete crisis of investigation. Before Christmas it became known that there was a report of violence in close relations that had been lying for more than 566 days, without even being questioned by the suspect, and there was only one of many cases. There had been an increase in cases with more than 12 months of lying time, from 139 in 2017 to 233 in 2018. Then I would like to ask the Council of State: is the Council of State satisfied with the fact that the investigation capacity is as it is in More and Romesdal and other police districts, and does he think it contributes to the fight against violence in close relations in a good way?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e1376	We have prioritised these issues, and they are prioritised as follows: the police have more knowledge and competence on these difficult issues than they have ever had. The second is that we have put much higher quality requirements all the way in. Children’s homes are an example of qualitative requirements that make research on a case-by-case basis much better. This means that we get over more things, and we're resuming more things. Therefore, you can understand the investigators or prosecution authorities who say that there will be an infinite series of things you will find when you get started, and that you would like to continue renovating even more. But the result is 30 pst. of resources goes to 3 pst. of the cases, and that is because you actually prioritize the matters that everyone agrees on should be the most important.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e1383	First, I am very pleased that the Council of State agrees with me in the reality that the crime scene is changing. What I'm pushing a little over then is that he doesn't want to use any clear tools to turn the police in the direction that things are changing. In 2018, the Department of Foreign Affairs was informed that 7,500 asylum seekers, i.e. a target of 7,500, would be sent out of the country. The number of illegal asylum seekers is falling. In the case of violence in close relationships and rape, there is a dramatic increase. So my question is, why is it so important to have very specific measures when it comes to sending out asylum seekers, a number that goes down, but not important to have concrete figures for numbers when it comes to dealing with reported issues of violence in close relationships?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e1390	It's always the case that a little bit depending on what kind of task we assign to the police, the different measure it makes sense to have. Within these fields, we operate mainly with procedural deadlines. It is not so natural to have within the field of alienation, where it is more natural to have measures for the number of persons not entitled to protection who are to leave but who refuse to travel on a voluntary basis. So we can't use exactly the same measuring method, no matter what crime we're facing. I believe that it is important to have measurement figures, but I do not believe to the same extent that the representative from SV that we should earmark funds for special police positions. I would like to remind you that the representative was also here in this Chamber yesterday and asked for earmarked funds for posts when there was another type of crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e1398	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e1405	Abuse, choice and abuse in close relationships are serious crime. It is a central task for the authorities to prevent and detect this crime and to provide help and support to those who are subjected to such acts. Today we see a alarmingly low percentage of clarification in these matters. It is very burdensome for the victims, and it can be untrustworthy of our legal system. That's why it's an important theme for the proposal providers. The Centre has supported several of the proposals put forward in the proposal for a representative and has also been involved in making proposals in the work of the Committee. The government party refers to several actions that have been launched to prevent and combat violence in close relations. Several of the proposals in the configuration of the Judicial Committee may be a good addition to this work. The majority of the Judicial Committee in the I also makes proposals that can free resources and make the rules for the organisation more accurate. It is the Central Party, the Labour Party and the SV who have put forward the proposal for a decision in the vote, and I note that the government party is positive to look at changes, even though they do not support the proposal that is made by us today. In my view, it is a pity that we cannot achieve a broad political agreement on this proposal. I'm glad that the majority in the committee has been a few things about more. Although the proposal does not now receive a number of figures, I would particularly like to highlight the need for more children's homes or children's homes in the country. A children's home satellite has recently been established in Förde in Sogn and Fjordane. It's very, very positive. In the Central Party's alternative state budget, we have proposed the creation of such a satellite in Kristiansund, in my home state, Møre and Romsdal. I hope it's possible to get a children's house satellite in this area, so that the kids don't go far to be excluded from violence and assault, as they have to do today. That's what I'm hoping to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e1416	I wanted to reply a little to the post of representative Eide from SV, which I think has a wrong input into the whole question. He is concerned that more money should be spent on bureaucracy, more designation, more detailed management, instead of having confidence that the police will be able to prioritise according to the framework they have. I don't think it's right to stand on the Great Council's pulpit and accuse the other parties of being afraid to criticize the police. If I thought the police were doing a lot wrong, I wouldn't have been afraid to say that, but I actually think the police are doing a pretty good job. We have police officers working throughout the country, who stand on every single day to get the most out of the money they've been allocated, to take advantage of every penny and get the most out of them. But they have not been allocated so much money, so they are getting tired and do not cover all of their cases, and it is not their fault, it is the government's fault, and it is the government that is responsible for it. So I think SV is doing pretty bad with the measures they propose in this representative proposal, which is more or less just spending more money in bureaucracy and giving the police less room for action to use their competences to prioritise what is important. Furthermore, I would like to answer a little bit of what the Minister of Justice said in the reply box. He said that the quality of the investigation has gone up, and that's good, the quality has gone up, and I totally agree with that – it's very good that the quality has gone up. But then he says now that because the quality has gone up, we're discovering more things, we're getting more and more demanding things. Then I have to ask, isn't there a need for more policemen? If we have had such a good investigation capacity that we see that we have had a large, undiscovered area – with family violence and child violence – we need more police officers to follow up those issues. That's exactly what we're looking at in police Norway now, that big and resource-intensive issues, which are often about violence against children, often on the Internet, take so much capacity that the police don't get to do any other tasks, and they don't get to investigate all the issues either. I believe that this is clearly an expression that the police need more resources, and that they have too little resources. After the police reform, a large number of officers’ offices were laid down, and there are still some that have very little — or almost no — staff. Then you can ask yourself, should you put down the small offices that are left, or should you strengthen them with policemen? I don't think if you'd hired a hundred more policemen in a police district, they'd been sitting and washing thumbs. They had a lot to do, because the police are overburdened with work tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e1427	The majority have agreed what Emilie Enger Mehl just said, that all Länsmannskontoret, which is left after the reform changes, should be strengthened, and we know how it is there – not very well. But this debate is important, because the draft representative proposed by SV here, to take a firm stand against violence, abuse and abuse, are proposals that the Labour Party believes – at least most of them – are very good. If one is indisputable or one, at least I believe – in the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party – that we are forced to strengthen the capacity of the police districts. So we can use time to discuss ear marking or not, it's now. The truth is, even though Wara, as Minister of Justice, says he's not too ear-picking, they do it every year, they do it too. The last time in the 2019 budget, it is advisable to earmark money for the investigation of violence and abuse, and I think that is very good. So even though the Minister of Justice of the Progress Party is against it, maybe the other party seems to have got through to it. And that's what I think I'm right. There is one area the Labour Party has said that we are willing to always prioritize and to earmark means to – if necessary – and it is elected and attacked, elected in close relation. I believe that the Minister of Justice is a little tired of discussing the budget. I get it, because it's a lot to criticize. And I can promise the Minister of Justice that we're going to point to the budget every time we meet, because this magnificence hall adopts the police framework, for the justice sector. If it was that we were just going to discuss the budget in December, then I think it would have become far too little real criticism of the government doing that is actually not good enough. Then I am glad that the Tuskedal and the Christian People's Party took part in this debate, that the Christian People's Party took part in the debates of the Judicial Committee, even if they are not in the Committee, unlike the Left, which we basically never see. I have great expectations for Ropstad and the Christian People's Party in government when it comes to the work against violence and abuse. In the past, the Christian People's Party has demanded 1 billion. kr shall be set aside for this work. I have great expectations for the state budget for 2020, when Ropstad is going to get through what the Christian People's Party has promised, because it is a reality that the escalation plan against violence, which was criticized by Barneombodet, Redd Barna and Unicef, is a plan that is not funded, which is not binding enough. We can only look at the NRK today what Red Children, Barneombodet and others. suggests that the rather ear-catching silence it has been in the follow-up to the Children's Choice for the last two years.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e1440	There have been some things in this debate that I feel I have to comment on. Of course, we have confidence in the police. It is definitely the way that the police are going to have to assess what they should do according to local needs. I fully agree that the police are doing a good job. I also absolutely agree that there is little money in the police, and many police officers report that they are tired. I'm also 100 pst. agree with what came from the Central Party on this. Had it been a normal state, we could settle down on it. But it's not a normal state. There are thousands of women and children who now report a brutal spouse, father or brother for violence in close relationships, and these families live in this hell. It's not a normal state. And when it's not a normal state, I think it's this hall that has to take responsibility for intervening. It's an alarm state, not a normal state, and the police report it. That's why I'm a little above the central party's approach to this. They are very opposed to running the police in any way and will not criticize the police either. I believe that in some cases there may definitely be grounds for criticising the police for their priorities. So we don't have any control. If we increase the police's budget, we don't know if they're spending this money investigating violence in close relationships, or whether they're buying a new car. We don't know that. That is why I believe that in this case designation is definitely correct, precisely because it is an alarm state. I'm also glad that the Christian People's Party joins in the justice debate. I remember that the representative Tuskedal was involved in the debate on mental illness in prisons. It strikes me that the representative Tuskedal always agrees with SV in these matters, but then it goes two hours, and when we get to voting, he votes against. Now he's no longer in the room, but it must be a bit of a difficult situation with great pathos to stand on the pulpit and argue for exactly the same things that the opposition does, but when we get to the vote afterwards, they vote differently. I believe that there must be respect for politicians in this country, they must vote for what they are for and against what they are against. It does not do the Christian People's Party in these matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e1453	The representative Emilie Enger Mehl has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e1458	I fully agree with the representative, Mr Eide, on the seriousness of these matters, and these are very cruel things. It is not that we have no control over what the police are doing, even if we do not control the details and introduce multiple targets. The police already have a lot of things they need to prioritize and have to buy in. For example, they shall prioritise violence and abuse against children and the investigation of it high. And they're also doing it for the benefit of us. It makes other things lie further behind. We saw, for example, Last year, delinquency against adults was behind delinquency against children. It's a capacity problem, as I see it. I believe that the representative Eide has to see the whole thing here, because it's actually that the police also have to have a car in order to investigate violence in close relationships. The police have a lot of things they have to have to do to do their problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e1465	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox The President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. 7 and 8 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e1494	The President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that up to seven lines of reply are given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e1503	I haven't heard people standing on the platform waiting for a full-stop, delayed train, irritating themselves over the logo. One should be very careful about going into the board's work and decisions, but now we see it as absolutely necessary to make a proposal asking that the roll-call vote be discussed in Stortinget, and not least that one think about one more time before a decision is taken. Rarely have we seen such a popular commitment and rebellion around a name change. It's not for no reason. The State is the sole owner, and the Minister of Transport is the General Assembly. We should therefore like to know which control signals are behind the proposal to remove the name NSB for the benefit of Vy. It's historyless. We've heard few arguments as to why this is necessary, but one thing we've heard is that the NSB is no longer Norway's State Railways. That's wrong. The NSB is still the only train company owned by the state of Norway. In other countries, the state train company is still called the same. The reason for this is that it is a quality stamp, a safety stamp and a brand name, for example: DB in Germany. The company did not appear until the 1990s, but it was after a merger of the state railways of East Germany and West Germany, which were divided after World War II. So Deutsche Bahn is called there. SJ in Sweden was the State Railways. It's no longer called the State Railways, but they thought SJ was a well-informed name in the Swedish people, so they kept the name, even though what has been both mergers, buy-in and buy-in. That's how I could still have. This is a state-owned company that now wants to enter the Norwegian market. So it's quite possible for the NSB to compete in other countries without changing its name. Over 136 years, the name NSB has been incorporated and is a strong brand in itself. In addition, the proposed name Vy is controversial and signals a breach of an important and long history as a popular transport company. The proposed name lacks content and meaning. It has no connection with the company's activities and is contrary to the recommendations of the Language Council. We had hoped that the Minister of Transport would listen and now prevent a historyless name change. It's also about preventing that 300 million. kr is thrown away, while commuters and other passengers are waiting for delayed and overcrowded trains – money that should have been spent on materials, departures and employees, not on logos. Brandware construction is solving people's everyday problems and collective needs. The Norwegian railway right-hand policy has reached its peak. Now the government parties get the chance to explain why they think this is the wise use of our tax money. The NSB is the people's property, and I really hope the government is now able to ask the board of the NSB to listen to the uprising. Unfortunately, it seems that the train has already left. The logo is placed in order, although the general meeting is not until 22 March. But it's not too late to pull the emergency brake. I would like to recommend the Workers' Party's proposal. The Labour Party also supports both the Red's proposal and the MDG's loose proposals in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e1522	Name choices attract a lot of attention, naturally. The NSB has been a registered name for many years, both for those travelling by train, for employees and for the environment for others. The name NSB is too many synonyms with the railway. So it's like the NSB has evolved into a transport company that operates much more than just the railways. The company has a large bus activity through Nettbuss, and plans to become even more fully active in the transport market, offering seamless and environmentally friendly door-to-door journeys, based on more means of transport. The company has also gone beyond the borders of the country and has a significant activity, for example: in Sweden. New technology offers new opportunities. It could mean better and easier everyday travel for us as passengers. Therefore, it is important that the NSB and other companies are at the forefront of this development. Creating good and attractive collective offers is the key to making more people travel environmentally friendly. The role of the NSB has also changed as a result of the railway reform. Path NOR has been given responsibility for the infrastructure. The task of the NSB will be to provide passengers with a qualitatively good offer in competition with other actors. Now there was another company that won the first tender on Sørlandsbanen, but the competition also showed that the NSB could deliver a qualitatively good offer at a lower price than they had previously delivered. Competition thus contributes both to a lower cost for the State and not least to a better offer for passengers. In a situation of increased competition on the railways, the need to see more transport services in the context and the organisation of door-to-door passenger transport, the board has considered it important to bring together the company’s activities under a common brand and profile. There is a strategic assessment made by the Board of Directors, which they consider necessary to strengthen the competitive position of the company. Of course, we can have a strong view of this from Stortinget's side, but it is the responsibility of the board to handle this in consultation with its owner. The owner of the NSB is the Ministry of Transport and the Minister of Transport. As I understand it, the company has had a dialogue with its owner on these questions, and the owner has communicated that he will not oppose the change in name. I understand that the company wants to show a more consistent profile, in particular considering that the company is now much more than a railway company, and that there is a need to adapt the business to a day-to-day business where the company is to offer a more complete and seamless offer to its travellers. It's not the first time this is happening either. Other state companies have also changed their name and profile based on new strategic assessments. It's enough to mention Telework, Posten and Statoil. There are many who have strong opinions about this name, both inside and outside this house, and the name change itself is perceived as unfamiliar to very many of us. Nevertheless, when an overall board, including the employees' representatives, is behind this decision, and believes this is important for the further development of the company, I believe it is also important that we listen to it. Ownership of large state companies must be consistent. That means that it is the Minister of Transport who is the general meeting in the NSB and acts as the owner. Then I believe that it is not right for the Storting to interfere in this process, no matter what we personally may think of the name. State ownership requires sound and consistent state ownership policies. I will report that, in the right-hand side, we will vote against the proposals that have been put forward, including the solutions to be found in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e1545	There are probably a lot of reasons why someone reacts to the NSB changing the logo. But one thing could be to use funds at a time when the NSB is struggling to carry passengers. Something else is when one starts to interfere from the Storting, as a legislative and admissive authority, in governance. It's suspicious. It may be worth reminding those who doubt the name of Norway’s State Railways and think it’s a natural name to have on a company where 7 000 employees drive buses and rent city cars – and then there are 3,000 people who drive trains – that Norway’s State Railways become a quite unnatural name for such a car or bus. When this debate travels, and you get involved in changing names, it's a little strange that no more of the same parties reacted when the red-green government spent over 300 million. 2008 krones to rename the Post, the Post and Bring. There has been a custom in this room, and under changing governments, that you don't interfere with the work of the board. I believe that the interference that is now taking place from a number of parties is really a distrust of the board. That might show that you should have had a completely different debate in this room today. Having state ownership means being professional. You have a government to run commercially and wisely. But when the country's National Assembly enters and engages in a name, it's low. For the Progress Party it is not relevant in this room to start discussing name. We should operate with appropriations, so that we get the best possible train services and the best possible mobility services, and that is what the NSB is doing. It's a bus, and it's a car, and there may be several platforms NSB can provide for a public society. If today's proposals are to have a majority, I think we should start a whole new debate. Is it appropriate for the State to own an operator company? That might be the big question, not what the child's name is. For the Progress Party, it is not appropriate to support the proposals. The progress party has also stated that it might not be wise in the situation NSB is currently in, spending money on changing their names. But we're going to stay far away from dictating companies the way it's now been addressed from the opposition, and that's shocking.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e1560	The President would like to recall the right of proposal. Regardless of how the representative perceives a proposed proposal, it would be suggested that it is outside parliamentary language to characterise the proposals as low.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e1565	This is about, as everyone understands, much more than a name choice. Norway as a good welfare country must have a basic infrastructure at the bottom, both rail, telecommunications, mail, electricity and roads. Good governance and long-term planning must underpin the infrastructure we are going to have in Norway. Through its long history, the NSB has been involved in shaping the country. NSB is not a normal company. It's part of our common history. Few companies and few names submit more pride than NSB. This is what the Center Party believes it is worth taking care of and building on. The centre party has great ambitions for the railway. To transport people efficiently and environmentally friendly, we depend on the railway. With an expected increase in passenger traffic in the years to come, especially around the largest cities, we are dependent on political will and strength, and not least on being able to steer the development of the railway. Clearly, political leadership is needed to achieve this. The centre lot will have a bet on the railway to make several people choose to take the train. This will require increased frequency and safety for the train to arrive at its destination. The NSB has always been the Norwegian railway locomotive. As the owner of the NSB, it is the responsibility of the Minister of Transport to ensure that the company is as well equipped as possible to meet the challenges of the future. Now, when the NSB changes its name to the Vy, with the Minister of Transport's blessing, it joins in a series of steps taken to weaken the Norwegian railways in general and the NSB in particular. This development is the result of EU directives, competitive outsourcing and New Public Management. We in the Center Party want a different course. The railway reform, which was launched by the blue-blue government after the 2013 elections, has been mainly about fragmentation and competitive outsourcing. Train materiel AS shall own the trains, Mantena AS was established to operate maintenance on the trains, Railway NOR shall deploy the railway, and Railway service shall operate and maintain the infrastructure. This is helping to weaken the overall management of the railway. This ideological project to the government does not contribute to the improvement of the rail system or to the more efficient transport of passengers. It contributes to responsibilities powdering, more directors' salaries and a less comprehensive railway policy. When it comes to defending its support for the change of name of the NSB, the Minister of Transport says that it is ‘the decisive factor in the competitiveness of the company that we are making changes to common profiling’. What in the world is there for a description of a company that has been a carrier for over a hundred years? In the opinion of the Centre Party, the NSB’s competitiveness would have been strengthened if they were given more overall responsibility for the railways in Norway, instead of the fragmentation that is now taking place. It would provide a clearer distribution of responsibilities and a better offer to passengers. The government says it'll be cheaper to drive by splitting up the old NSB. When you talk to the railway people, they say, "There won't be any more people "in the puck" of holding on to this. What's happened after we woke up yesterday, literally, to the big, too many maybe sad news that the NSB, the railway flagship, is going to spend 280 million. kr to change the name of the view? People are cursed and given. They don't want the state's money to be used this way. They experience it as arrogant when responsible people get up and say that this is only small money in the long run. I think this is just the drop that was asked to float over. The state council won't oppose it, but what everyone asks is, does the state council think this is good? When the Prime Minister is asked, she says, "We'll be friends enough." Is that how a prime minister should contribute to the development of their own company? The question is, where is it that you want? Is the main problem that Norway’s State Railways contain the word ‘state’? Is it the great mantra to deregulate and privatize, for the purpose of removing the company's connection to the state? What do we do? You should pull the emergency brake and say a clear no to change your name and waste your money. It is not up to the board and the management of the company to decide, it is up to the general meeting to decide. Everyone in this room knows that, including the Council of State. We're going to contact the owner here in the Grand Duchy, the Council of State. Is it a wise decision that the owner, the state – i.e. us, represented by the Council of State – are we doing? Advice on the road: Use resources to strengthen, gather and build — with great emphasis on bringing the Norwegian railway further together.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e1588	FY: This name is going to be standing as a monument to a silly historylessness that has been allowed to spread in our country lately. It has now become that a company should be given a name, it should preferably not have anything to do with the company and no one should be able to understand what the name means. State companies have become our era Erasmus Montanus, and ordinary people seem largely, I think, that a rather named Rasmus Berg – or NSB, for that matter. However, it is not the name itself that makes reactions so strong, but the use of money. 280 million. For example, kr could be used for investments in new sleeping cars, which could give us 50 pst. increase in the capacity of the night train. That's why this is also a monument to another thing, namely a failed rail reform, a railway reform that until now has given us several directors, several million salaries to the directors and nominees, but no better offer to Norwegian passengers. It is the government and the Minister of Transport who have to take responsibility for this situation, and it is against them and not against the management of the NSB that the frustration many feel needs to be corrected, because it is through the railway reform that the NSB has been reduced to something near a train crew manning company. We should do it quite the opposite in Norway; we should assemble the railway in a strong company that could run the Norwegian railway in the future and that could make it a better offer. And a good name for such a company would be NSB. People are headstrong about this. I think it might quickly be going with the Vy as it did the time when the British postal service was going to change its name. In 2001 Royal Mail found out that they would change their name after having named it since 1650. At a press conference, the chief executive presented the new name, Consignia, and then the chief executive said the following: The new name describes the whole of what the post office does, in a way that “post” and “office” cannot. But people thought that “post” and “office” covered the post office, quite well, so they changed their name again to Royal Mail after a year. I hope it goes like that with the Norwegian railway as well, and we could do that today if the Stortinget had put its foot down. We have to stop this futility, and SV is going to vote for any proposal that involves it, in the vote afterwards. Then I note that the spokesman of the Progress Party is shocked that these proposals are being promoted. I think people outside this house are more shaken by the use of the 280 million, and that's why the suggestions come. But I record that the Progress Party is now accepting uncritically as they would otherwise be opposed. Now they're just going to be proud of everything the government comes with. Then they might as well think about changing their names, for example. ‘Kry’.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e1609	I have a hope that the NSB, or now the Vy, will win quite a lot of offers around the country when they are eventually put out. And I'm terrified that the NSB will disappear completely if they don't modernise, because that's what can happen. The size has decided that everything should be put out to competition, they are used to it in bus operations, and thus there is a danger that all the competence and the good people who are driving trains around the country today are suddenly gone. That's why I want to commend NSB's board of directors and management for a brave, important and right offensive attitude, with brand construction and visibility with a new name. It is logos and uniforms and other market materials that are now being replaced into modern ones, in order to be able to get more passengers and win the competition on the routes being launched. That's why the Left thinks you're offensive. But it has to be said that the name Vy, I don't have a very big relationship with that. I hear that one should get both French and a little different associations from the very name of Vy, but as a magnificent representative, it may not be what I'm going to be with and decide what the company should be called. So now they're going to go out and compete and do a socially useful task, and if they're now state owned or private owned, they're going to do a socially useful task for the country's population — even abroad. They are already in Sweden, and Sweden is a natural arena to compete in for this company, and perhaps beyond that. It's now getting time to show. So I think this is pretty forward-looking, and I don't think the company today has been, maybe you've been a little voiced, but most of all you haven't been able to renew yourself and be on the passenger's side in all phases. I think this can give employees and the company a new boost, which can actually help them in the competition later on.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e1620	The proposals from the Workers' Party and Red are, to put it mildly, alarming. The fact that a populist party as Red formulates itself as they do is so its case, but that the Workers' Party, as a serious party of government ambitions, acts as if the Stortinge were a general assembly in the NSB, it is alarming. It's unforgiving, and it's unforgivable. It's not the way we're going to govern public ownership in state companies. If we were to follow the Labour Party line here, it would actually mean the hook at the door of public ownership. We can't do that. NSB is a company that has itself chosen to make this change in name and profile. It's the NSB itself that wants this, and the government doesn't put its foot down for it. Whether Vy is a good name or a bad name is not a political question to be settled in Stortinget. It could be an emotional question for many, we understand that. It is the board of directors and the company that are closest to considering what is needed for the company to succeed in the future. As a general assembly, the Minister for Transport will not oppose the will of the NSB, he says. It is, in our opinion, a proper assessment of the Council of State. Regardless of what we personally had to think about the name Vy, and regardless of what we personally think about the timing and the economy, this company's own choice, as it was for the Post Office when the post horn disappeared under the leadership of the Center Party. I should not be surprised if we will in a few years' time have a good laugh at the statements we hear today from the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party. Because that's what we can do, as we know from when Telecom became Telenor and the Swedish Aviation Agency became Avinor. The real issue we should address, and as the red-green government neglected throughout its period, is how to ensure that the train becomes a forward-looking, modern and competitive alternative for people. The railway must and must be a competitive transport option in the coming years. Then the sector must be renewed, and fortunately we are in the process of doing so. The appropriations allocated to the sector have increased sharply. It's due to deliberate prioritization, and it's a right priority. That is why a completely necessary railway reform is now taking place, so that we get more and better train services for the money. We need a renewal of the railway, more for each of the heads, so that we can expand and create a better deal. What's the most important thing here. We have to remember that over the eight years the red-green crashed, the maintenance crew increased by 1 billion. kr per year. This came at the top of a system that was already tearing away with old and degraded infrastructure. The accumulated backlog was more than 17.5 billion. kr when the non-socialist majority took over. Now the retreat is on its way down. I'm glad it's a cross-political desire to bet on the railway. Even I grew up on Karmøy, where 104 years ago the railway was planned from Skudeneshavn to Haugesund. There were even built stops. But there never came either rail or train. That's why there was a temporary bus set up, called the NSB, the State Railways. It's called Columbus today, and I think people are more concerned with the bus offer than with the name and who's driving. With regard to the train here in the country, there should be a central part of the future transport system in Norway, and such proposals that came here today do not bring anything good with them. There'll be a lot of noise, it's unyielding, it's unyielding, and it helps to weaken the predictability of other public ownership. Therefore, the Christian People's Party does not support the proposals that have been made.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e1640	The President would point out that it is important that a word change is neat also in describing each other's batches, so as regards the description of Red as the populist party, the representative might consider formulating something different.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e1645	A good collective offer is the backbone of a modern, sustainable, fair society. Unfortunately, the NSB is struggling with poor infrastructure, lack of modernisation and lack of maintenance of rails and materials. It creates delays and frustration. That's why the answer is not to rename. On February 6th this year the Evening Post wrote that only 55 out of 110 trains that were out on Norwegian tracks that day were on route – 55 out of 110 trains. Only around the capital, commuters experienced several failed trains, signal failures and use of one track instead of two more locations. Norwegian railway history is full of great visions and proud, spectacular results. But the stories we got this February day, unfortunately, merge into the series of stories that are anything but proud. Worst was it in Lillestrøm, where a local train at the 06th hour traced off and stopped while it was going to be in service, and any other local train between Lillestrøm and Spikkestad was cancelled. Also at Holmlia got a train technical problems and crashed, and on the line between the Braker Island in the Drammen and Asker there were signal problems. This happened in just one day. But the name is not ashamed, and it may well be that the name change is tricked, given that the railway is put off for competition. I'm quite calm about the name Vy, and as a staging representative, I have no intention of talking about the name itself. The problem is that all those who are happy in the train, who have the train trip as their everyday lives, experience a lot of bad train offers and delays in everyday life. They are obviously very provoked when they get the answer from the government, not a better train offer, but that the NSB should get a new color and a new logo. The Greens are therefore promoting three proposals today to strengthen the railways in Norway. Firstly, we are proposing to deal with today that the Stortinget ask the government to suspend the change of name and focus on improving NSB's train services, punctuality and reputation. We state in the proposal that the government should instead give priority to strengthening the brand by better planning and staffing that will enable the company to make better use of existing material and infrastructure than today. And as I heard the representative of the Progress Party in the main post, I believe even the Progress Party could agree to that proposal. Then I also hope for the vote of the Progress Party, because the train has not gone to vote for that proposal. The matter of naming the NSB is the focus of the whole railway reform; it is the most obvious symbolic consequence of fragmentation, privatisation and outsourcing. Today, therefore, the Greens are also promoting two proposals that we want to send to the Transport Committee. We propose that the Stortinget should have an evaluation of the rail reform and decide whether to scrap the rail reform and replace it with an integrated model for the organisation of the railways in Norway. When the railway reform was promoted and adopted in June 2015, inter alia: for the Greens, the government itself promised an evaluation of the structural measures after five years. The last proposal, which we hope may also be forwarded to the Committee, is that the government should facilitate the strengthening and further development of NSB AS as a modern transport company owned by the State. Railways and trains are a complex system that should be integrated and it is not very suitable for competition, we believe. When the reform was due to be adopted in 2015, the Greens warned against it. In this room we said that a closer organisation of the NSB and the Railway Agency was a good measure. But Norway as a small railway country is not suitable for having more than one viable train company. We don't think it's the way to go to preserve competent professional environments and see the whole of the train offer, develop innovative solutions and have a unified customer front. We now have a rail network with huge delays in maintenance, a railway policy without visions and a transport policy for the rest that lacks both its whole and its priorities. Today’s debate on the naming and rebranding of the NSB is a clear step towards selling the NSB, as the Minister of Transport Party, the Progress Party, has programmed. We in the Greens will fight this and hope that a majority in today's magnificence will be involved and guarantee that NSB AS will be strengthened and further developed as a modern transport company owned by the state. With that, I am addressing my proposals on behalf of the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e1668	The representative of Une Bastholm has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e1673	It is good that Stortinget deals with the question of NSB's name change here today. There is nothing premature in that the Storting will use the country's ownership to clean up this matter. NSB is the people's property, even though the citizens don't like it. That's why the People's Government should and should take action when necessary. Many people think the name change is ridiculous – and it's not funny. So it's a $140 million price label. kr per letter, and very few, outside the council, have praised this choice of names. On the contrary, people say they want to take NSB home for Christmas – not Vy. At the same time, this is about something more than a name choice. It's not about nostalgia, it's about something much bigger than that. On Tuesday the group leader of the NSB said at the press conference that the NSB was no longer comprehensive because the NSB not only operates trains and does not own the rails and trains as before. But even though NSB is now running a bus and is also experimenting with a city car, it can of course still be called NSB – that is the case with Deutsche Bahn in Germany, as is the case with SJ in Sweden. In addition to the word ‘road’, the NSB consists of two other important words, namely ‘state’ and of course ‘Norway’. There is now a lot of talk about green foil on hundreds of trains and buses and about thousands of so-called modern uniforms, but for people in Norway, the NSB is something more than a brand. It's the railway, which we built and paid together, that tied people in our long-range country closer together. The launch of the Vy is therefore a symbol of a long-term dismantling of the Cohesion-Norway, a dismantling which began long before Erna Solberg took over after the election victory in 2013. That's why I'm glad that an overall opposition is now protesting, but we know that many parties are responsible for public companies playing the store. It was the Workers' Party that split the railway in two and then the NSB turned into a limited company. Since then, Erna Solberg has accelerated with, for example, the railway reform, but several parties are responsible for the fact that the wind will take over the control of what was to be, should be and will become the property of the people. Many feel powerless towards an increasingly privatised and commercialised Norway. It's no longer ours – it's my name and yours. It's not called us, it's called AS. It's not called NSB, it's called Vy. We have a social development that is on a collision course with the Norwegian people's soul, and with the Vy this frustration over a long-term development was clearly eliminated. So what does the party that claims to be the majority of people who say they defend Norwegian culture? Well, first they go out and they're against this name change in the media. So today we get the fasitite: it was up like a lion and down like the obedient lizard of the windshield. Today we see that the Progress Party joins with the civilians in spending close to 300 million. kr on a name change that is completely meaningless, and no one out there sees any reason to spend so much of the citizens' tax money on it. The fight is not over, regardless of the outcome of today's vote. Yesterday the City Council in Bergen, on a proposal from Red, adopted an opinion to stop the plan to tender Vosebanen and Bergensbanen. Go-Ahead's got the Southern Railway. There will be new rounds and matches from the government of Trøndelag in the north and from the EU with rail package IV. There will be a struggle for a policy that breaks the government's privatisation line, to use resources to gather, strengthen and build the Norwegian railway together. That fight is not at all over, even if we were to lose and get a decision today that is a sand raid by the Vy. We're going to continue the fight against government policy, and we're going to win it. With that, I take up Red's suggestion to stop NSB's name change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e1688	The President would point out that the proposal is already under consideration and should therefore not be dealt with in particular. The President would also point out that referring to some as ‘blue-breast’ and ‘listen dogs’ is not considered to be parliamentary terms.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e1695	Normally, when government councils talk about issues that affect state ownership, it's based on the fact that the Storting is concerned about one exercising ownership as a serious and professional owner. I have also tried to handle the change of name and profile proposed by the NSB Board of Directors. The starting point for this is that it is the board that is close with the administration to making assessments of what is going on for the company to succeed commercially in a market both in Norway and, of which the Stortinget has also been busy, beyond its borders. So it's the board, the company and their members who, through the board of directors, have advised the general assembly to change this name. This has not happened without our owners having consulted. Through various information meetings from the company's side, the board has consulted us. We have asked questions about several of the assessments they have made, but at the same time we are clear and clear that it is the board that will decide when it is due to determine the profile of the company, based on what they think is necessary for the company to succeed in the market. The reason for this is simply that we are concerned that the company should be able to succeed. We are concerned that we should have passengers who are satisfied with the railways, that those who run the company should find new markets, develop the company and get more people to travel collectively. And there are several people who travel collectively than it was just a few years ago. During this government period there is a growth in the passenger base of about 20 pst. Then there are many relevant political discussions we can have in Stortinget. But the board of directors and the company itself are responsible for finding the market opportunities, to actually compete with the private car, which makes more people use the train well. If the Storting is to govern it in detail, or if the owner is to govern it in detail, I believe that we at home believe the company's development rather than strengthening the company. I feel that that's why Stortinget has meant that we're going to have a state ownership in the NSB, simply because it's worth owning a company that provides collective services and that wants to develop them for the benefit of the passengers. That is why we have also implemented a rail reform, a rail reform that will deliver better results, and that will lower costs, so that we can spend more money on investing in our infrastructure, on improving congestion, and on renewing and improving efficiency. That's why we have a railway reform, and it's starting to give us results. 100 more trains daily in and out of Oslo make it possible for more people to travel collectively, but it also means that the company's board of directors has made assessments of what is going to happen to bring about 140 years of history into the future. I have chosen to inform the board that I will not actively oppose the decisions of the board, because I believe it is the tidy way of exercising ownership. That means I have not taken the initiative in this renaming. I have not proposed a change of name. I have not even thought that a change of name was necessary, because there is no such thing as me. When the state carried out the railway reform, we let the NSB keep its name, we didn't think it was necessary to change. But the board of directors of the company, which is legally responsible, who is responsible for renting the company through a conversion that means that more people can travel collectively, well to use the train, thinks it is necessary to have a common profile, with a common brand name, both in Norway and when they compete outside. I mean, it's neat that owners have to base it on. Then, hopefully, the experience that the company is now making will help to ensure that even more passengers – in addition to being happy with all the upgrades we're going to make on the railways – feel that this is a company that is looking for new solutions, which improves the mobility of the population, and which is happy to increase the collective share of the population. After all, it is also important that we both get people to work everyday, get happy passengers and reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e1706	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e1711	We've read that the NSB lacks personnel. With this name change, the railway reform has now cost 1.7 billion. kr. We can also read that uniforms and logos have already been ordered, so we realize that there have been some steering signals that this is okay. My question to the Council of State is: Is the name proposal in line with the ideology of the Progress Party and the wish for the development of the Norwegian railway system?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e1716	I think I should be honest and say that the answer to the assumption is no. We would normally not mean anything about what a public owned company should be called. We think that if the state is to own something first, we're going to have a competent board that makes those assessments. On the board of directors of the NSB, additional representatives have also voiced this change in their names – because they are busy developing their company. What I mean today's Labour Party is actually adding uncertainty to the company. The board of directors of the company, the group management of the company and the members of the board of directors believe this is a contribution to the development of the company. That's 10,000 added. When, in fact, a good deal is needed for the development of the company by both additional representatives, representatives of the board of directors and group management, the Labour Party may contribute to endangering jobs. I do not intend to do that for this company.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e1721	For the Workers' Party, it is important to listen to what the people say and the feelings around a national railway and its name. The next question will be: Is control signals given along the way? Now I heard the council say from the pulpit that it wasn't. But how is it possible that the NSB has already ordered the products for a new logo in the portfolio?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e1728	I direct the company through the general meeting. However, it is still the case that there is a dialogue owner continuously through such a process. He's been walking for almost a year. There the board has informed about different decisions. They have asked for advice on how to handle the process, for example. because they have expected this political debate. I said – and I communicated that to the board at the time the board had decided that they wanted a name change – that before they launched it and incurred costs, they had to know how we would handle it. I have signaled that if the board thinks this is decisive for the company, I will not actively oppose the decision in the general meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e1734	In this discussion, we have discussed this with ownership, new tasks for the NSB – it is not the same company as it once was. I noticed what the representative Stordalen said: the NSB has now become a clean operator company, you can ask if it is right that the state should own an operator company. Do the councils agree with that statement from the Stordalen?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e1739	The ownership question of the NSB has been clarified by the ownership messages we have given. We have no plans to sell the NSB, or the Vy, and that kind of assessment has no effect at all – I must stress it, at all – on the owners' assessment of the board's proposal for name and profile change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e1744	Thank you for that answer. So then you disagree with it, and there's no ideology behind this change in name, that it should lead to the word "state" being gone, and that it'll be easier in the future to do something else. I want to ask you a new question, and it really does go a little bit on the same thing. This is the relationship between all the companies that are now gradually being established, and what goes on command and control, which we used to say when I was in Defense. Clearly, this change in name is a symbol that this sector is not moving – one does not know what the other is doing. Who really is in charge, and who is in charge of what is now happening on the railway?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e1751	The Ministry of Transport and the Government have control of what's happening on the railroad, and we're responsible for it to the Stortinget. We have chosen to organise ourselves so that we get better results than the Center Party got on the Norwegian railway when they ran. That's precisely because we've made these changes, based on a report that the Central Party ordered when they had the Minister of Transport, and that described the challenges we had on the railroad, that we didn't get enough results from all the investments we made. Investment has now increased by 80 pst. since the central party was overthrown, and we organize ourselves so that people will cultivate nuclear power, that they will deliver better results, and that they will have a clear responsibility. Clearly responsibility is part of the purpose of the reform. Path NOR knows what they're going to do, Norwegian trains know what they're going to do, Entur knows what they're going to do, and they're going to be good at it, because that's what will give passengers a better offer when they choose to travel collectively.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e1756	SV had not interfered with a change in the appearance of a logo, for example. We're talking about bigger things here. There is a background around the proposed amendment that has come – and will be implemented – it seems. I note that the Council of State says that he will not actively oppose the proposal from the board. Then my question is quite concrete: does the Council of State admit that in this case he has the top responsibility for a name change?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e1761	I am a general meeting, and I intend to exercise the country's ownership professionally. That's what I've been notifying you. It is up to the board to make these decisions, and it is up to the general assembly and its owners to accept them, perhaps to take the consequence that one has significantly different judgements than the board. We have taken this into account in our ownership exercise for the company. So that means that part of the assessments that the company has made is the company that has done. That doesn't mean that all of the ratings are irrelevant, but that means that as a company they have to see what they think is the business potential, and how they can get more passengers to take the train – and I assume that SV is busy. And then I think this is the way to build the company for the future. I believe – I allow myself, President – that SV would have meant the same thing as me if they had actually been responsible when it was a liability to exercise ownership of a company as important as the NSB is.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e1766	I think this debate is about a little more than the discussion about the exercise of state ownership. And I hope the Minister of Transport agrees with me that there is a difference between people and people if it's a service they use in everyday life and has a close dependence on working well, or on it, for example. is Statoil, which has become Equinor, which you have much greater distance to. The reputation of the NSB is so incredibly dependent on the actual offer and that it works. That's what we really talked about here. The largest prestigious building for the NSB had been that the train was running when it was supposed to. Therefore, I wonder if the Council of State agrees with the representative of its own party, who said in the main post that the Progress Party agrees to the extent that this is a rather bad timing for a name change – that it is stupid to make a name change that costs 280 million. kr when people are still waiting for the train to arrive when they are going to work in the morning.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e1773	I have not initiated this renaming. That's what the government has done. That means that initially I haven't seen this need. The Board of Directors has done so, and the Board of Directors is responsible for assessing the company's success. That is what this discussion is really about. It concerns those in the company’s lease, the board of directors who are chosen to hire the company, whether they have been added who are likely to have a better overview of what is needed for the company to succeed than the Stortinget has – or the Stortinget, for example. shall exercise direct ownership of state companies. I think it's a bad idea. Especially for those who are very much for a strong public ownership, it must be a very bad idea. But I recognize that what's essentially going to decide if we want to succeed in giving passengers a quote they're happy with, is the extent to which we're able to modernise the Norwegian railway system. That's precisely because we've implemented a reform that's going to contribute to it, and that's what I'm busy continuing to deliver on.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e1780	The Council of State states that the NSB considers the exchange of names to be necessary for the competitiveness and to be able to win tenders in the future. Then my question is, how much are the names of the companies weighted in the tendering procedures?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e1785	The answer to that is nothing. What I have said is that the board of directors of the company thinks it is necessary to have a common profile, a new profile of the company in order for it to be able to search new markets, among other things. to win supply on the railway but also to win market shares in other passenger segments. Therefore, they are now developing electric city cars, which will give you a holistic journey, and that people will be offered by the company on the way to the train, before they get on the train – and with that they will choose away the passenger car and choose to travel collectively. That's what's going to happen, my company, to get the collective part up, which, after all, is also important to the company. Let me just end by saying that I recognize that in this case it is much easier to be in opposition than in position. It's much easier not to be owner than to be owner. But what we have to do anyway is act neatly as owners, because that's what also over time enables the company to have a robust framework for positive development.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e1792	So the line change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e1800	Tuesday night, a few hours after the news about the name change on the NSB came, I was going to take the night train to Trondheim. That's something I often do. The night train is an efficient and comfortable way to travel. And, fortunately, it's not just me who thinks it is. Many take the night train – to and from Trondheim, to and from Bergen, to and from Bodø, and to and from Stavanger. But if you are to be sure to have room, the trip must be planned well in advance. Tuesday evening it had been like that with the planning from my side. I therefore stood on the platform with a travel ticket, but no sleeping place. Optimisticly I went on the train, and thanks to someone else who had planned better than me, didn't show up, I got a place to sleep. I would venture the claim that if people were asked to travel on the Dovrebahn at night, they would say that it was more important to get an extra sleeping car in place than that the NSB should change its name. As long as we don't do anything about the sleeping car offer, the new name of the NSB becomes a kind of call to think about Vy, but take a plane. Simple headcount shows that the 280 million that will now be spent on the name change could perhaps give us as much as nine new sleeping cars. That would be a 50 pst. increase in the number of bed places on the train. It would have solved the lack of space at night for many years to come. SV proposed last autumn to purchase some additional sleeping cars. Unfortunately, we did not get a majority for that. The Minister of Transport said at the time that it was very difficult to achieve. I don't get it. Is it really more important for this government to spend 280 million? kr on a change of name than to spend the money on improving the offer of trains? Finally, I would quote a Nobel Prize winner in literature, Bob Dylan, who in the 1960s wrote “It takes a lot to laugh, it takes a train to cry”.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e1811	It was with great amazement I looked down on my NSB app this morning. Now it's got a little green corner, as if someone's tearing off the NSB logo, and the green color is similar to that shown at the press conference on Tuesday. Under the NSB logo there is probably a Vy logo ready, with large V and small y, similar to the one presented at the press conference on Tuesday. It is desperate to stand here and argue for deaf ears when we know that everything has been made clear, without politicians thinking anything about a major change in Norwegian railway history. A government that is allergic to state ownership is now probably decorating the bride for sale. They're decorating the bride for 280 million. kr, at least. These are public dollars, community money, which could have been spent on something quite different. For people out there, this is about our railway. For 280 million. kr you could have rustled up the fences along the South Railway instead of tearing them down, so that the South Train will not run on domestic animals and game. For 280 million. kr we could have speeded up the planning of the double track on the Jærbanen to Egersund, so that the municipalities along the track could have developed their agglomerations instead of waiting for the connected area to be released once far ahead. For 280 million. We could have done quite a lot. This is 280 million. kr of Community funds in a sector suffering from a lack of money. This money is used to change a well-established name to a name no one knows what it means in this context. The director of the NSB says it's probably going to take three years before people get used to the name, and it's really saying a lot. I agree with the representative Sverre Myrli who said yesterday that there is no end to madness. But it's not too late to turn around. But then you probably have to sell the already received uniforms, which employees of the NSB have already been handed over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e1824	The amendment from the NSB has been received with shock, with tears, with humor and with seriousness – and not so little regret, I think. I'm serious, because here's a backtrace that's very serious for the future of Norwegian railway. The representative of Stordalen thinks this is a trifle. I don't think so. I think this belongs here today, because we just have the rug I mentioned. Anyone who follows this case, who has been on the Norwegian railway in the last few years, understands that a change of name to that extent is a kind of natural consequence of the railway reform. All this bidding hysteria that we have seen, that what we believe is clear public tasks, more and more coming out of tender – one should not have much political advice to realize that for this government, the NSB name should be out because the company is called Norway’s State Railways. So it's "state" in the name here, and then it's something that scurries for some. I don't want to wonder if it has been political leadership – more than what has been said by the Council of State today – but in any case you can understand the NSB, who must feel that their position is exposed. NSB feels vulnerable, of course they do. And that's of course because we have the political climate that we have. It is just as if you have to camouflage the name ‘state track’, that you have to camouflage the name, so that you better position yourself in a competitive situation. What is this thing? To hide one's history and pride after over a hundred years – what is this? You can then create colorful logos around the world, change the logo, change the bet, marketing – all other measures – but the name could well stand. Then there's a point that's pretty important, which is very sub-communicated, and it has to do with the identification of a company. I've seen it in other areas. I've seen it in aviation, for example. within SAS, where the employees were proud of their company. The same thing has been NSB. They've felt a responsibility. When the employees there saw a mistake, they went and fixed that error. So they a deficiency, they went and fixed that deficiency. Was it garbage there, they also took it, although it was not their responsibility – because they had an identification. It could be gone. This, of course, is also about economic productivity. It goes on the success story of Norway's State Railways, which can get a shot for the bow. Then I'll see if you'll have time to fill it in in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e1837	When I got involved and fought to get into Stortinget, I had dreams, I had plans – I think maybe I even had views. Common to them was that I wanted to work on important issues – adopt budgets, prioritize, adopt laws. Little did I know that I would also end up in a name committee and in a logo jury. The basically difficult thing about the Storting getting involved is already mentioned by several of those who have been on the pulpit today. This is in addition – I believe – far beyond what we should give priority to spending our time on. There is, as we know, a lot of movement between politics and the PR industry, but in here we are politicians, and we should be away from the PR work. But I think both the Vy and the PR people who are behind are now very happy. We give them with an unpayable attention real value for the money. You can mean what you want – and that is what you do here today too – but I think we have to raise our eyes. We're wasting time with the National Assembly, and we're gaining the perception of ourselves and our ability to prioritize what we should engage in. There have been many name debates. You can mean what you want about Equinor, about OsloMet, about Ambita and about Vy. We can fire and believe a lot about it, but we're not going to use Storting's pulpit to mean anything about these matters. The principles have been well covered by several, including the Minister of Transport. I think that the underlying debate, as we know here, is probably the motivation for the proposal – and not the simple proposal as it sounds, namely that you want to reverse the roll-call vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e1848	Train is my favorite way to travel. You drive environmentally friendly, you drive on rails, you usually arrive at the right time. But we, too, who love the train, hear many complaints – that the train is too late, that there are too few departures, that it is full, that there is bad Internet coverage, that there is bad information, and that there are too high prices. But I have not heard a single person saying that you do not use the train, or complain about the name of the train company, and at least not heard a single person who thinks it makes sense to use almost 300 million. kr on a change of name. This government is not running a train policy to build the country. They create new companies, new directors, split up and privatize. Instead, they should spend all their time building more rails and buying new trains. In today's debate on the name of the company, we hear different types of argument. Some people say it's unheard of that we're even discussing it. Well, you have to be pretty far inside the politician's room to not realize that this is a debate that people are busy with. This wasteland and the big deal isn't something people want from. It's argued that NSB can't name it because it says little about what NSB is doing. I think it's great that the NSB will also bet on electric cars. But ‘views’ and ‘view’ do not say anything about what this company is going to do. It is also heard that it needs to be modernised. Yeah, why is that? Is it such that the Minister and the right-hand side believe that Coca-Cola, Hurtigruten, IKEA, Volvo and others should also change their names – they have the same name for a long time? The Hurtigruten not only operates with boats, they also operate with a lot of other things. Or does this just apply to NSB? It appears that this government has an allergy to the word ‘state’. There's talk of NSB – or for that matter Statoil, about which we had a debate today – as if this is any company. It's not. It's owned by the people. That's our common property. We all have a reason to have an opinion about it. But this is the right-hand side policy to privatize. It has become true, as Linda Hofstad Helleland said when she was the head of the Transport Committee for the Right. Under the heading ‘Such will the Right crush the NSB’s train monopoly’, she said: "We shall brush out of the tube so much toothpaste that the Ap does not get to put it back." Well, today it's just to congratulate the Right on the impact of its ideological policy, but for the sake of the matter, it's sad. I have to say that I am surprised at how servile both the Left and the Christian People's Party, but also many of the representatives of the Advance Party, are in this case, and that they do not understand that this is a policy which splits up further and lays the basis for further privatisation of our common train offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e1868	Yes, honourable President, the name is known to no one. It was a baptism a few days ago, NSB was born again. I see this debate this way: it's not about whether you like the name or not, it's about nostalgia. The board has worked out a new course for the NSB, a profiling for the future, and the board believes the strategy is correct. There's talk of NSB being a brand. Yeah, of course it's a brand. But is that a good brand? It's both, maybe. If we're going to follow the opposition's rhetoric here today, it's not a positive description of the railway in Norway. But there is an important principle in this matter today. It's about ownership management, which many people have been involved in. I ask, has it really happened before the Storting has tried the board of a state company? Like many others in this Chamber, I have been rapporteur and a general assembly. You may have disagreed with the arrangements made by the board, but you haven't opposed the board. In that case, you have to remove the board of directors. Is that what the Storting wants? This is an untimely interference from Stortinget. It is described in words like silly, crazy, name-nobby – but it was not when the Post re-profiled itself, and when Telenor got a new name. So I ask, is there one rule in the position of the red-green and another in the opposite position? This is mostly about an ideological reversal of the railway reform – that is what we have heard here today. The current problems in the railway sector are not of a new date and therefore this government has increased the budget by 80 pst. It has currently given a passenger increase of 20 pst. In the Right, we are very happy to change to preserve. We've already saved a lot of money, thanks to the opposition. I guess no one today doesn't know what Vy is. The profiling and branding that have been done in recent days is worth sending a big thank you to the opposition for. I believe that the budget for re-profiling in Vy can be drastically reduced.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e1881	It is always a sign of weakness when it comes to defending a decision that a manufacturer makes the decision as both large and small at the same time. Some speakers present it as a trifle, as a ‘name committee’, while other speakers present it as very dramatic if it is not implemented, as the Left spokesman did, which said outright that he was concerned, because if the name is not changed, the NSB can disappear completely and lose competition with others. When the position chooses to make a decision in that way, as both large and small at the same time, there is a sign of weakness in the decision to be taken. If the spokesman of the Left is really concerned that the NSB may disappear, I must say that if it should happen, it is one and only the Left, the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Responsibility of the Advance Party. These are the ones who have broken up and split up Norwegian railways into new companies, new directors and new million wages. They're the ones that have taken away NSB tasks. It is the biggest threat to the employees of the NSB – not that the Stortinget engages in a name choice. With the fragmentation, we've got even more responsibility powdering and even more opportunity for companies to owe each other. The centre party has thought and still believes that we should go the other way – put together the railway in a strong company that could drive the Norwegian railway ahead. The question is, is this just a change of name? It was really quite liberating that the representative Stordalen from the Progress Party said it was as it was. We now see that the NSB is just an operator company, and one has to be able to ask, is it right that the State should own an operator company? Maybe that's what the representative Stordalen says, it's about: why not privatize the NSB now, when one has stripped it for tasks and now changes its name? It can be seen as a preparation for it, sail if it hardly happens on this side of the election, seafaring. The right and the front part are hiding behind the board. It is usually convenient, but the Storting is not trying to interfere with the work of the board. The size interferes with the adoption of the general meeting, and the General Assembly is the Council of State, and he is responsible to the Stortinget. The ownership principles of the state are differing, depending on whether there are listed companies with state ownership or whole-time, state companies that you are talking about. The representative of Finstad said that it is not possible to override a full-time, state-owned company and dismiss the board of directors. Yes, it is. As a government council, I've done it. It is quite possible if you just dare and will and have a political stance. That's not the name that's NSB's problem. The problem is that we all want one to spend the money on getting the trains to go on time. Nobody wants a slow train coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e1896	Finally, after almost ten years at this house and in this national assembly, I am allowed to join and discuss the name of a transport company. But, it's said from the pulpit, this is something more than a name choice. And yes, it is. It is a mistrust proposal against a government in a state-owned company – for that is exactly what it is. Here the Council of State is asked to override what is the task of the Board of Directors. There's nothing but distrust, and it's not the Progress Party on – we don't want to promote distrust of a government because of a name. It is a bit fun to hear that the Workers' Party and the Center Party say that this government is weakening the railway system. The previous government, the red-green, did the best they could for the infrastructure of the NSB to lapse. It has hardly been put on the railway as much as under the red-green ones. At least this government has shown that rail is important, and has invested in it. It is also a bit fun to hear the argument used in terms of the punctuality of the NSB. Let me remind you that the route that is best on punctuality is the Gjøvik track – which is otherwise competitive, and with great success. But you can mean what you want about the timing of such a name change. You can also mean what you want about the name, and that's legal. But at least one thing is certain: the board was reasonably brilliant, as it has been said here before, when they started this debate. Because when this week is around, no one in Norway knows that the NSB is now called Vy. I think they've saved a lot of marketing dollars on that. Finally, it is said that you should listen to the people. Yes, one should listen to the people, but at the same time a national assembly should have confidence and listen to a board of highly competent people, where the employees of the company themselves are represented, who have chosen to go to the step they are taking. I don't think they're doing this for fun, I think they're doing it because they have a genuine desire to develop Vy to become a good and forward-looking transport company in Norway and in the rest of the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e1911	This case comes up because it is not about what it is really about. There are two representatives who are about the change of name to the NSB, but that debate has been about – and which is fundamentally about too many in this Chamber, I understand – is a rematch on the reform of the railways. We are in the process of implementing that reform, and it had a thorough preparatory work before it was adopted in the United Kingdom in 2015. Now we're in the implementation phase. What's really important is to clarify the relationship between who's responsible for what. I have to say that in the newspapers, when I read about delays, signal errors and everything possible, everything is thrown over to the NSB – the NSB is responsible for everything that goes. I've always said that the NSB is much better than its reputation. The responsibility of the NSB is to carry passengers, and when I stand every day at the Vestby station and see the train arrive two minutes before the time, I am very satisfied. And if I could get half an hour off on these trains, I would have been even more satisfied. But if the train is green or red, if it's called NSB or Vy: As long as it's Stabeck in front of the train when I'm going inward, or Moss on the train outside, it's the most important thing for me as a passenger. There are actually people flocking to the trains in these days. There's no black paint out there, because people are standing on the platform, and we have full trains – all the intruders are full. There are hundreds of trains installed just in the last few years, and the passengers are flowing to. The train is competitive, but it is not a matter of name – it is a matter of having trains. Then there's another thing I also want to mention, and it's that you draw this further because it's not an option to discuss the privatisation of things that are state-owned. There is no waste in any document related to the railway reform that the NSB should be privatised – not a waste. It is a matter of ownership, and it will have to come in an ownership message. But there are no signs that privatisation is a topic in this case. It's about what it's really about: name.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e1922	I represent Eastfold, then to the Council of State, on behalf of many: what concrete improvements will train commuters on the Eastfold Railway notice by using about 280 million. kr to change the name from NSB to vy?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e1927	As the last speaker, I also think I could mention a lot of sections that might need a raise for the 280 million. The development of this debate has shown that the name debate contains something more than just a change of name. It's the famous backcloth, which I've been through several times, and I want to say it so strongly that this is a term on the road to destroy the Norwegian railway as we know it today. I would like to point out that we have seen some sort of paralysis in terms of measures on the railway, and in terms of development. We have to take with us the postponement of intercity expansion, we have to take with us all the things that have happened about technical problems in the last year, the last winter, and that we are not able to handle the huge passenger growth that we have witnessed in a good way. At the same time, the government is demonstrating a fantastic lever, an action force, in setting up new companies and putting out competition. That's what we've seen, and that's this contradiction, these two relationships, that make us worried. That's right, as the representative Igstad says, the ownership of the NSB doesn't say anything about it. But it's possible to be concerned when we see this development. We can be concerned that there will be a villain on the road before we see him. We see the trends, we see the way this goes, and we're worried. And there are many employees who are concerned, not least those who have worked in the NSB for many, many years. Governments have almost allergy — it was said before today — to the public operation of important infrastructure. There is a clear political distinction, and it will be there in the future. Of course, that's why we hope to take action in a few years' time, or before, to get something done with this. Of course, we want the railway to reassemble on a responsibility, a common responsibility, to get something done with the railway, both on operation and maintenance, under a public umbrella. It's not more complicated. I have nothing against views. I've filmed many visual views in my previous life, but here I don't see so many views. I see more of a log ring, a device and an entry into a railway reform where a new name fits better. I don't see anything else. And then, I see just the small point that buses and trains should have the same name, of course. It might be called NSB.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e1941	History is an advantage for any national assembly and any democracy that actually wants the future to improve. This debate is very interesting and important, because it is simply about the fact that there is an attempt, which is now underway in several areas, to rewrite a story. The NSB has been a democratically run company, a tool to transport people safely in our country, to work, to friends, on vacation, in leisure. It's been a tool to make sure that the infrastructure we've paid for together benefits our whole country. There were probably some on the liberal right hand side who were a little uncertain about what to really think when the NRK with Lyckeland showed an important part of our history and how democracy can build a better future. When Statoil was established, there was a great political disagreement about getting a democratic tool to provide better prospects. And when one removes the consciousness of the population over time, two generations may not be sure that there are so many who know that it has actually been possible to control social development democratically by exploiting natural resources, distributing them to the whole population – or providing transport facilities to bind the country together. When the right-hand side completes its plan to sell out and privatize Vy, the seventh and last question is, how are we going to make sure in democracy together that someone is going to operate all the routes in Norway? The Norwegian democracy and the Norwegian government will then lack a tool to ensure that this happens. We already know that there are several sections of railway that are under-prioritized when it comes to the infrastructure, by, for example: postpones their electrification. But the very same underpriority routes will be the first to leave operation when the state and the community no longer have a tool to operate them, because you can't force any private company to operate these routes, which becomes the least profitable. So this is a much bigger question than anyone on the right is trying to pretend that. This is about history, democracy and whether we're going to live in a market liberal world, where selling clothes is the same thing as managing natural resources or managing the infrastructure. In the Workers' Party, it is very important that there are some fundamental distinctions. That is what Norway's State Railways are all about. That's why the Workers' Party is for a railway policy where we own and operate the railway together.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e1952	It's kind of nice with a heated debate about the railway, because if we had talked about the railway 15 years ago, it would have been pretty quiet here. I've heard more now, especially from the Progress Party, who's been up and talking about a story that's false. I think I'm the longest-seated wholesaler in today's big business, and I've been with a while, and I know just when the investments in the Norwegian railway turned around, and that was when it became a red-green government and we quadrupled the investments in the railway. And what had happened in the years before, with the Advance Party's budget proposals on the railways? Yeah, it was a big cut. The head of the Transport Committee, Kenneth Svendsen of the Progress Party, was even out there – and it's on Google, online – and wanted to put down Bergensbanen, put down the Rørosbanen, put down the Solørbanen. And Per Sandberg was out and meant the same thing. Then we hear that it's kind of the first time it's been put on the railway. To put it that way, I'll be able to congratulate the others in the government if they've managed to defeat the Progress Party on this. I have been a train enthusiast all my life and have been told for many years that I am carrying oats to a dead horse. I may be afraid that will happen again soon, because what is happening now is that Norway is always running for other countries and is doing what stupid other countries have done, when they're done with it, because they see that it doesn't happen. This name struggle that has emerged now is just a symptom of something that is wrong and sick. The railway is a common responsibility that we should operate as a common unit, because it is so closely linked. There may be slightly different driving on the road, but on the train it is not possible to place so many others, because everyone has to use the same track. That's what we call a natural monopoly when I went to college and learned economics. Therefore, these different parts should not be split, owned and operated by the public. We should invest much more in the railway, because the railway is future – if we keep it together, and make the necessary investments, both in operation, in maintenance and in upgrading the material.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e1965	Ownership is about good dialogue and signals from the owner to the board. I think that if the Council of State in its dialogue in advance had said to the board that the name should stand, we would not have stood here today. I must also note this with the «time bet on the railway». Finstad and Johnsen say it's 80 pst. increase in the railway budget. Unfortunately, that money has gone to the so-called railway reform: to directors' salaries, to company fragmentation and to a tendering regime. Every year for the last five years, the Workers' Party's alternative budget has been more devoted to rail than the current government has proposed. We've been able to do that because we haven't prioritised tax credits for those who have the most of them. We have also not wanted to spend the money on a so-called railway reform. And to the Moxnes I have to say, it wasn't the red-green ones that turned the NSB into an AS, it was the Bondevik government that did.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e1976	There are probably many interesting discussions you could have had as a follow-up to this, but it would have been an advantage if the staging representatives – like Leirtrø no last – actually spoke the truth when they were at the pulpit in Stortinget. We haven't increased the permissions of the Norwegian railway by 80 pst. and spent the money on a railway reform. We've invested in double tracks. We've planned, we've bought out land, we're building a railway, and we're improving our maintenance. That's what we're spending money on -- just in 2019 over 10 billion. kr in investments, track renewal, better maintenance. It's crucial, and we're investing massively in it. I can take criticism too much, and the government tolerates criticism too much, but it's unimaginable when the Labour Party has to cover the criticism with actual errors. They do it over and over again – and it's no longer true for that reason. We have a government that both promises infrastructure and reform. And then we save billions of dollars that we reinvest in the same transport sector – the portfolio of New Vegar: reduced costs by 20 billion. kr, a reform saving, increasing social benefits and a new 30 billion. kr. Now, when we get better results on maintenance, when we invest in new signalling systems, it means something to our ability to get ahead in time. That's what passengers care about. We can have a name discussion in Stortinget. I accept that the Storting should use the time to say so, and I realize that too many passengers it is strange to rename the NSB. But the Workers' Party's representatives, the opposition, must try to speak the truth about what is actually the changes in the permissions of Norwegian railway and Norwegian infrastructure, and not least try to see some of the effects we've had – more infrastructure for money, more passengers on the train, more daily departures into and out of Oslo, hundreds of every day, reform in the transport sector, helping us to get more infrastructure, reinvest, open twice as much motorway in 2019 as the average in the period the Workers' Party was in and out of the last. Money in the transport sector is not spent on reform costs. They have been used to improve efficiency and performance – because that's what passengers care about eventually.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e1985	I think the council must note that passengers and many of us in the opposition do not understand that the council accepts to spend so much money on a name change. That was probably the starting point for this case. Yes, it is true that more money is being used, but the jam was supposed to be missing. This government has a world record in oil money. This year, more than 230 billion are used. kr extra in the State budget. No government has ever had as much money at its disposal as this government. You can't stand and throw all the money out of the window, or give absolutely all the money in the tax havens to the richest. That they have invested part of the money in the railway, should just be missing, so we get something permanent for the money. All the parties in the Storting have put their priorities in the NTP, and we have prioritised our budgets – a little different from the government, but a lot more on the railway. So the notion that the government is doing so much more than everybody else is not right. Is it that you think you should use the same budget you used six, seven or eight years ago? There's more money into the state budget today, there's a lot more revenue, and then there's no need for the government to have used any of them to upgrade the infrastructure, for example, which has been widely agreed in this room with regard to the railway infrastructure. The difference is that the opposition, at least SV, has wanted a stronger commitment on the railways – unlike some of the investments that the government will make on motorways, which are neither profitable nor right in relation to the climate, the challenges we have there, and getting passengers on public transport and trains. I think it seems to me that the Council of State does not take seriously the serious signals that come from this kind of use of money, and that he ideologically believes that the fragmentation that the government is doing is correct. I just remind you that those who have done this before us have not had particularly good results with it, and there is no reason to repeat the mistakes of other countries. It'll be expensive, expensive and stupid.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e1996	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 7 and 8.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e2008	The size is then ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e2017	The President will propose that the Foreign Affairs Minister’s statement, held at the Stortingen meeting on 5 March 2019, be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e2084	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e2094	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e2169	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e2179	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e2188	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Maria Aasen-Svensrud on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Petter Eide on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to establish a police management tool that includes the use of measures for police work on violence in close relations.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e2214	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to ensure a funding model through the letter of entrustment to the Directorate of Police, ensuring the designation of funds for the investigation of reported family violence, rape in close relations and sexual abuse of children in close relations.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e2256	Behind the setting are the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The Greens and Reds have announced support for the vote. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e2276	It is voted on by the representative of the representative of the Björn Moxnes. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision requests the Minister of Transport to stop the NSB’s name change.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left have announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e2296	Three proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. That is the proposal No. 1-3, from Une Bastholm on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 by the Greens. Proposal No. 2 sounds: «The government is asked to promote an evaluation of the structural grips of the rail reform, as announced in the Report. St. 27 [[2014-2015]] Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to facilitate the strengthening and further development of NSB AS as a modern transport company owned by the State.’ The proposer has requested that the proposals be forwarded to the Transport and Communications Committee for further consideration, but the president cannot see that there is a majority in favour of such a procedure. The President will therefore propose that the proposals be put to the vote. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e2324	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 by the Greens/Greens/EFA Group. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking to suspend the change in the name of the NSB and instead to give priority to strengthening the NSB’s brand by better planning and staffing that will enable the company to make better use of existing material and infrastructure than today’.» The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e2343	The President will propose that the proposal put forward by the representatives of Sverre Myrli, Kirsti Leirtrø, Øystein Langholm Hansen and Steinar Karlstrøm in Document 8:101 S for 2018-2019, to postpone the issue of naming for the NSB so that the matter can be discussed in Stortinget – be annexed to the minutes. It has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e2375	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-14.ana.ud205e2380	- The meeting's been cancelled.
