ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e85	The representatives Solfrid Lerbreck and Torgeira Knag Fylkesnes, who have been on leave, have again taken the seat. The following called alternates are now taking their seat: For the Mora and Romesdal counties: Tove-Lise Torve For the Nordic counties: Marius Meisfjord Jösevold For the Vestfold province: Renate Silver The request for the leave of the representative Linda C. Hofstad Helleland, from 14 May to 16 May, to attend the board meeting in Montreal, as the vice-president of the World Anti-Doping Bureau, WADA, is received from the Højres Storingsgruppe. This application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The representative of the goods, Ove Vollan, is proposed to meet during the period of leave. – It is also considered to be adopted. Ove Vollan is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e132	The representative, Ms Sangtarash, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e137	On behalf of the representatives of Kari Elisabeth Kaski, Audun Lysbakken and myself, I would like to propose a proposal for a comprehensive and good maternity care throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e142	The representative of Une Bastholm will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e147	I am delighted to make a proposal for a representative to strengthen the day and night services in Norway and between Norway and Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e152	The representative, Mr Knag Fylkesnes, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e157	On behalf of the representative Lars Haltbrecken and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal on a green new deal: more resilient fish feed.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e163	The representative, Lars Haltbrecken, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e168	In the light of the serious report by the United Nations Panel on Nature, I will, on behalf of Mr Nävra, Mr Knag Fylkesnes, Mr Kari Elisabeth Kaski, Mr Andersen and myself, present a proposal to take better care of natural diversity and important Norwegian nature.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e173	The representative, Kjersti Toppe, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e178	I will, on behalf of Siv Mossleth, Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum, Marit Arnstad and myself, make a proposal on a public distribution, NOW, on the provision of pregnancy, birth and maternity in the public health service.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e183	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e190	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Ingerd Schou. – Other proposals are not available, and Mr Schou is unanimously elected as President-in-Office of the current sitting. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e210	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Right 25 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party, Left, Christian People's Party, Environmental Party The Green Party and Red Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be up to seven lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e223	I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a good and broad presentation. European cooperation faces many challenges. We are all keen on the forthcoming parliamentary elections, on populist parties, and on the consequences for European cooperation. We see that democratic institutions such as the courts and the free press are under pressure in very many EU countries. We see the absence of economic progress for those who have the least, and the lack of confidence in European politicians – a Europe of increased differences. Several have lost their jobs or received temporary jobs, and there has been increased pressure on pay and employment. All these factors contribute to giving less legitimacy to European cooperation. Increased social differences create less trust in society. The EEA Agreement was negotiated at a time of positive political development in most of Europe. The initiative was taken in 1989, and in the years that followed, democracy was on the rise. There were 12 EU countries and six EFTA Member States when the agreement was negotiated. Now there are 27 EU countries and three EEA/EFTA countries participating in EEA cooperation. In other words, the force ratio has changed quite a bit. It was a good deal when it was negotiated, and it is still. It has served us well. After Brexit, it should be clear to everyone: an agreement with the EU has advantages and disadvantages, but there is no realism in the idea that we could get a better deal than the one we negotiated at the time. This chance can't be taken by any responsible politicians at all. Using forces to investigate alternatives now is simply a poor positioning of Norwegian interests. Who in the world believe that it is possible for Norway to negotiate better solutions if we open up to change our relationship with the European market and break with the cooperation that the EEA Agreement represents? The wishful thinking of some British politicians does not prove to be feasible. Nordics against Norwegian EU membership should be the ones who defended the agreement most. Without the EEA Agreement, they had to apply for membership. We are not best off alone – just as little as Britain is on its own. Access to the internal market gives us common standards and removes technical barriers to trade. We have full control over Norwegian agricultural policy and fisheries policy, where common veterinary rules mean that our fish do not have quality control at borders. The agreement also gives us full market access for services, which have become an increasingly important part of Norwegian exports. In short, the agreement means that our sovereign largest export market has become a domestic market. Increased European cooperation and more competition require measures to avoid social dumping. The EU regime gives Norwegian authorities the right to address such consequences. The requirement to pay tariffs through the so-called publicisation of collective bargaining agreements, the right of access for opt-outs to the remuneration and working conditions of subcontractors, the prohibition of zero-hour contracts and improved control of hired labour are measures that can contribute. With a single European labour market, there is a growing need for nationwide collective bargaining agreements and measures to strengthen European organised labour market. The British have in many ways gone the opposite way in recent years. Less organisation and more local wage agreements have helped to keep British wage and working conditions down. There is also something of the background that many Britons have voted for Brexit. The EEA Agreement also protects Norwegian citizens. If we go on vacation, work or study in another EU country, we are treated as our own citizens. It is a protection which is absolutely in the interests of Norwegian citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e247	I would like to point out to the previous speaker – our excellent committee leader – that it has been a while since I have heard such a powerful contribution from the Labour Party on the EEA Agreement. We have called for this in our camp, and we have also seen with some concern how the discussion has turned increasingly in the EU/EEA critical direction in parts of the radical trade movement and in some parts of the Workers' Party, so I think the article was excellent. What we are dealing with today is the Foreign Minister's statement, and I want to say that it was both instructive and interesting, and there are many important perspectives that are being drawn up. For Norway, cooperation with the EU is based on the EEA Agreement and is essential. The EU countries are the world's largest economy, and the internal market is the world's most developed free trade area. But not only that: the economy is so integrated that it actually cannot be replaced by a traditional agreement on customs tariffs, as someone thinks is the option. A small and open economy such as the Norwegian economy depends entirely on participation in the internal market to ensure Norwegian jobs and thus the economic foundation of the welfare state. Although EU cooperation is more important than ever, it is also under pressure from several sides. The previous speeches were about Brexit, and I believe that Brexit has shown that the EU’s ability to market its results as a problem-solving agent and also the ability to pull in the same direction has not been convincing enough. Taking the focus away from the United Kingdom and targeting the new democracies, some countries have also distanced themselves from the rule of law that we others take for granted. Then there has been a wave of migration that has also put the EU system and joint decisions under pressure. Although the number is now lower than in the peak year 2015, the problem has not yet been resolved in such a way that the EU is able to develop a common and solidarity asylum and refugee policy that is fully trusted by the countries. The aggressive behaviour of Russia in the neighbourhood is of constant concern, and the signs that the withdrawal of the United States from multilateral agreements and organisations is not only transitory, leave some uncertainty among traditional friends and allies. But precisely the problems mentioned call for pan-European solutions and for more cooperation, not less. We also see that cooperation produces results – we achieve more together than each of us. For example, the financial crisis is at the heart of the progress in employment. At the same time, the setback with brexit has shown the advantages many took for granted. The EU is being shifted from taking an interest in more detailed issues that can safely be left to the national states to taking an interest in the larger issues and becoming more relevant in the important areas, and focusing less on the smaller issues that can be left to national regulation. In just two weeks, 751 representatives of the European Parliament will be elected and 73 seats from the United Kingdom will be elected. Originally, it was intended to make elections of 705 – it was thus willing to leave 46 places unused by the 73 that the United Kingdom would leave behind, and 27 are then distributed among the other countries to correct the imbalances. What's the cross of thought in this is that our closest neighbours in the Nordic region send – a little after the outcome of Brexit – about 50 representatives, Norway none. Since EEA opponents are so concerned about highlighting that we do not have an impact on the rules, it must be a cross of thought that Norway does not put its mark on European cooperation more than we do. We have a lot to do with – we have many traditions we could contribute, and we also see that our Nordic neighbouring countries are producing our values in an excellent way, but numerically we could also be there. For a long time, it was progressive towards the EU because it was a Western Reichs Club – if you remember the 1994 enlargement discussion. It was a trading bloc that was looking to keep everyone else out of our markets and call about their own privileges. Then the new, independent and germinal democracies of the former Eastern bloc, completely contrary to this prediction, were gradually integrated and went from stagnation to the strong improvement of the standard of living of ordinary people, who also the same radical people thought they could not be a source of. It has not happened without transitional problems, but it was still not enough to convince our homely radicals, who were stifled in the notion that transnational cooperation results in poorer policies. Then came the environmental problems, but the EU also had many of the answers, including: environmental standards in industry, climate allowances and the Paris Agreement. There would have been no Paris agreement if the EU had not pushed it forward. Nor would it be an effective implementation of the Paris Agreement in Europe without the EU. But it's the same circles that now strongly criticize Trump for withdrawing from an agreement that had just not seen the light of day if their view of committed European cooperation had come to light. Whether there is a climate crisis, whether there is regulation of banks and finance, whether there is more effective taxation of international companies, or whether there is a strong market dominance in digital services in the ICT sector, where these multinational companies outside Europe have for too long been paying the tax they wanted, and choosing which countries they may have paid the symbolic tax in, it is only a powerful European cooperation that can bring all of this into order, so that this tax base becomes available for national taxation in the countries where the valuation takes place. Major steps have also been taken in the digital security field, major steps have been taken to ensure that individual better control of their personal data through the GDPR. These advances would not be possible without EU and EEA cooperation. The cooperation on equal rules — from taxation and economic policies to climate and privacy — would not be possible without a horizontal standard preventing companies from taking such considerations into account as a competitive advantage. Then we still have transitional problems, but there are no problems of doom related to the rule of law and democracy. The Commission has chosen to activate Article 7 on the risk of breaches of the fundamental values of the EU following so-called judicial reforms in Poland, and criticism has been raised against Hungary about the treatment of the so-called NGOs by the authorities, i.e. those organisations that are spontaneously organised outside the control of the country. These procedures have already given the government an opportunity to modify and to reflect on important points. After all, it is an inheritance from previous power structures that the new democracies have had problems in overcoming – it is not something they have inherited from the EU, but the EU is moving them in the right direction. But again: these are transition problems that can be overcome, like the other problems that I have mentioned, that call for more cooperation, not less. Then you can wonder where these countries would have been if they had been left to themselves and not been involved in obliging economic and political cooperation without such an impact on the rule of law.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e276	It is possible that the EU will develop exactly what we want without Norway’s political involvement. That chance takes the whole left side, but especially progressive, it's not. It is therefore important that we also influence where we can, and participate in – within the Schengen cooperation, for example, through the channels that the government so effectively exploits. It is essential that Norway also participates in the development of a common border control system, precisely in order to provide the basis for a fairer and more cohesive asylum policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e279	Let me thank the Foreign Minister for the presentation. I want to start by commending the government for the work it has put into the brexit preparations. The process is still uncertain, but the government has prepared well for the various possible outcomes. If the notice agreement is approved in the House of Commons and an orderly brexit becomes effective, an agreement between the EEA/EFTA States and the United Kingdom reflecting the notice agreement shall enter into force. If it becomes a ‘no deal’ Brexit, Norway and the United Kingdom have signed agreements to extend rights to the North in the United Kingdom and the British in Norway and to ensure trade in goods and transport. A separate agreement on fisheries management has also been negotiated. This is important for Norway’s interests. The EEA Agreement means a great deal for the Norwegian economy, in particular with regard to market access in Europe. It has served us well. It has given Norwegian export companies access to large markets. The EU has undoubtedly played a significant role in the development of Europe, both economically and politically. The Minister of Foreign Affairs pointed out that today there is a war between the countries that have historically been archenemies – France and Germany – unmistakable. Many believe that this can be largely attributed to the cooperation that has emerged through the EU. That being said, there are strong forces that want more integration in more and more areas and less national self-determination and space of action. It can be asked whether the EU could not have gone too far in trying to create the European dream, because the nation state is reversing. Brexit is an indication of just this. The choice of the European Parliament, where EU-sceptic parties are to do well, is another indication. We must never, never subdue the need that many feel for a national identity and nationality. People need a community where you feel at home, safe and secure. This need is met by the national State. The EU cannot replace the national community. It's an illusion to think that we can all become Europeans. Therefore, it is important that we have a certain critical distance to the European project. We should neither glorify the EU nor the EEA Agreement when we see clearly that there are internal challenges in Europe and that there are aspects, aspects, aspects, of the EEA Agreement that are not working properly – as access to welfare benefits. Therefore, the Granavolden platform also says that the government should work for improvements within the EEA Agreement framework. Kabotage is a problem that the Progress Party takes seriously. Previous governments have not taken the matter as seriously as they did. It seems like you've been most concerned about this in the opposition. This government has been a driver for a pan-European regulatory framework to deal with cabotage. Norway has allied itself with several like-minded countries in order to increase hearing and permeability in the EU. It remains to be seen whether the new legislation, which is now being negotiated internally between the EU institutions, will reflect Norway’s view. We will continue to raise our views and not rest on our laurels. Some words must also be said about the United Nations Migration Platform, which the Minister for Foreign Affairs addressed in his presentation. The party of progress was, as you know, the only party that opposed the United Nations migration platform, also here in this Chamber. The Minister for Foreign Affairs said: «Globally, we are working on the design of a follow-up mechanism of the United Nations Migration Platform which does not help to extend the interpretation of the text adopted last December.» [[...]] That's good, of course. But it also underlines the warning given by the Progress Party, precisely in the debate on the migration platform that we had in this Chamber last December: the platform will lead to expectations of compliance and can lead to internationalisation and liberalisation of migration policy. The interpretation of it could also be different than what we thought. This is merely an example of international attempts to raise national affairs at a more global level, thereby undermining national democratic mechanisms, in order to promote a political vision that does not necessarily reflect the national population. It's a dangerous development. It is undemocratic. There's something that leads to protests, that we see all over Europe. These are protests we have to take seriously. The European project has gone too far; it leads to undermining the national state. We have to take that seriously. This is not a black-and-white debate. Everyone understands the need to interact, to have driving rules that we can all respect, and to be able to exchange goods. It's important – trade is good. But the kind of globalisation we've seen over the last decades has probably had an effect that goes far beyond what was originally the intention, thereby triggering political counter-reactions that we're going to take seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e303	The European Union, the EU, is an experiment without a model – single currency, euro, without a common Ministry of Finance with tax law. This does not exist in other countries. With the free movement of workers, capital, goods and services, there is uncertainty about stable and secure labour income. When a person does not have a well - organized work life, he does not have a safe family life either. This experiment is creating increasing social unrest in a number of countries and is now giving rise to political unrest. The polls show major changes in the forthcoming elections to the European Parliament. The head of the ILO in Geneva, Guy Ryder, told the Labour and Social Committee, some years after the financial crisis, that social unrest would result from the policy of the European Commission and the European Central Bank, the ECB, well supported by the International Monetary Fund, the IMF. Guy Ryder was deeply concerned because the ILO, the oldest organization in the United Nations, from 1919, knew that security of labour income is essential for stability and democratic development. I underline ‘democratic development’. Norway is linked to the EU with the four freedoms of market forces – the free movement of labour, capital, goods and services – through the EEA Agreement. The deal is dynamic. The EEA is not a matter. There is an alternative social organisation to what Norway has experienced has provided security. The reason is clear: The Storting was the head of this Norway. By a democratic majority in the Grand Duchy, capital forces were governed in accordance with the promises given in major debates. People learned that what was promised was realized over time. If people were dissatisfied with the result, the composition of the Storting was changed. The problem was solved in elections where Norway was given a new number of large quantities. Now more and more people experience that the problem is a huge majority that sees the EEA agreement as a sacred cow. It can't be renegotiated. The problems are minimized, and the abstinence breaks out among the big business representatives, who are unable to keep what they promise in elections. There's a difference between government and opposition -- I want to underline it. The red-green batches in today's magnification will take advantage of the national space for action within the EEA, while the right will not be such a propellant. The EEA Agreement, launched on 1 January 1994, should be temporary. Now it's 25 years old. It was planned by Prime Minister Gro Harlem Brundtland of the Labour Party and President Jacques Delors of the European Commission, who worked from 1985 to 1995, to be the first step towards Norway becoming part of the European Union, the EU. The Union’s flag was also due in Norway on 17 May. It wasn't like that; the Norwegian people said no to the Union flag. However, the EEA Agreement is increasingly binding Norway to the EU social system. It's in the working life that people notice this most clearly, it makes sense. When leaders of Eastern European countries would escape strong Russian influence, integration into the European Union was a natural alternative. Western European leaders in the EU welcomed, but they said something more: when Western Europe gains access to the Eastern European market for its goods and services as well as capital, Eastern Europe will be allowed to compete with us in the area where you have a advantage, namely cheap labour. Now this has worked for 10–15 years, and the results show up. There is growing concern in the sectors most affected by this low-wage competition. In Norway, it is in transport, construction and construction, cleaning, agriculture, shipping, fisheries processing, tourism, trade, but also in IT and aviation, to mention some professional groups. An increasing number of workers feel that they need to keep their hands on the job and thank them for working contracts that provide low and increasingly unpredictable income. Serious employers with fixed-term employment with fixed-rate wages and apprentices experience that they are being out of competition when they follow the Norwegian model. According to Report No. 2 in 2019 from Societal economic analysis experiences large professional groups, from trade in goods to maintenance, etc., this. It appears that there is also black work and a lack of payment of taxes. As mentioned in the report R2-2019, this is reflected in external factors – Labour crime and immigration. The reason for this development is that the Norwegian majority of the population, with the Labour Party and the Right in the head, do not want the Stortinget to have overall control of the Norwegian labour market. In the EU, too, there are no other popularly elected assemblies that are set to govern capital forces at a supranational level, so that we have a safe working life. The centurion has always ruled the capital forces in its history. EU leaders are now at the cutting party. They do not move on with the project of the United States of Europe; they do not choose to indicate the project with the euro and are therefore in a squeeze. Social democrats are in crisis in a number of countries in Europe, and that is not unnatural. The centre party moves from free labour to regulated labour immigration. We want to look at the Swiss model. I will conclude by saying that the EEA Agreement is like a torpedo in the middle of social democracy. The agreement is a great pleasure for the right parties. This development must help the Centre Party to bring an end to it. Very much is at stake.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e328	I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for the presentation. There has been a bit of a ritual about the defence of the EEA Agreement by the government and some other parties and the way to deal with the new EEA debate, and that is that almost does not go into what is the reason we have got this debate, namely the situation in our working life. If the government is to continue to disapprove of the EEA criticism, continue with a line of argument that is characterised by some form of fatalism, where the EEA is the best available, and there are no alternatives, frustration over this will only grow and grow. What the government could do is, of course, to show a political will to address what is behind the growth of EEA resistance in trade unions, namely the social dumping that is spreading in our working life, in construction sites, in industry, on the roads, in ports, far into the public sector, even in our health sector. The government could demonstrate its willingness to deal with the EEA Agreement in line with the possibilities that Norway has, after all, been able to choose our own course, for example. using the right of reservation. But when the EU wants to impose a further forced privatisation of the railways, the government is using the opposite option of trying to block the future majority from doing what it is quite obvious that people in Norway now want to do, namely to take the railway back to the community. So the EEA Agreement is used to promote right-wing policy. The EEA Agreement is a right-wing subscriber scheme, and it is no wonder that the resistance of the trade union movement is strong. It is precisely this, through the EEA Agreement, that we are importing market liberalism and right-wing policy, that an internationalist party like SV thinks we need to look for alternatives. We are in favour of strong European cooperation, we are in favour of more international cooperation to solve the main challenges of our time, but we cannot have a cooperation that works in such a way that it sets a popular and political will to turn the economic course of our country to the left, out of games, for the benefit of imported right policies. So we're told that brexit shows that this debate is not a good idea to have. Well, let's then be a little sober and remember what the problem is for the British right now – a number of special British challenges related to the Irish border, related to the political chaos of the Irish people, and also challenges related to the EU's rules of exit, which say a lot about the order of things to do. Nothing of this will apply to Norway in a situation where we want to address the conversation about a better agreement for our part. I would like to say something about climate. I think it is good that the Minister for Foreign Affairs spent so much space on climate in his presentation. There too, however, it is worth remembering that this government is not doing its part of the job. While a number of European countries are moving rapidly towards a shift towards renewable energy, it seems that the Norwegian government is most concerned about selling the best possible gas in Europe and promoting the idea of replacing coal in Europe with Norwegian fossil gas — while a number of EU countries are moving past that idea and will jump right into a renewable energy system. Therefore, many of us still wonder what happened at the informal Energy Ministerial meeting in Bucuresti at the beginning of April, where eleven EU countries refused to support an opinion on the European gas market because it did not contain clear references to the EU's time-table climate neutrality plan, while Norway appears to have supported this opinion and did not support those countries that wanted clearer climate policy objectives. I would like to challenge the Foreign Minister now to inform the Storting about what was actually Norway's position on the proposals made in that opinion on a more offensive attitude to the climate issue, for that answer has not been easy to get from the Minister of Oil and Energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e345	It's May, and there's reason to spend a few minutes on the concepts of peace and democracy. It is difficult to exaggerate the importance of the European Community and later of the European Union for the development of our continent. On the ruins of World War II, a new political reality was built for hundreds of millions of people, a reality built on cooperation, trade and negotiations, to replace raw power, corruption, oppression and war. On the European Day of 9 May, the Youth Party of the Left, Young Left, had a social media mark. There it was: «The history of Europe is not written in ink, it is written in blood.» It is a brutal sentence, which effectively sums up our continent’s development over a millennium or more. Today there is no internal threat of war in Europe. Nevertheless, it is worth highlighting the worrying features of policy developments in several European countries. We can never settle for believing that peace and freedom will last forever. Political awareness, active efforts are needed to maintain and strengthen the dialogue between nations, involvement among peoples and energetic work between bureaucrats, diplomats and politicians in order to continue, further develop and strengthen the peaceful cooperation of today's Europe. It has not been given that all share our commitment to the institutions that bind us together – as people, as nations and as human beings. There are Heads of State who will build up the boundaries that we've spent decades building down, creating greater distinctions between people and between countries. For the Left, it is important to establish that we are on the side of the European Community, not on the side of those who want to build it down. The core of European cooperation is not a bureaucracy in Brussels or other disputes. The core is civil society and an all-European understanding that has evolved since the end of World War II. The core is better communication, cultural understanding and economic cooperation that builds peace and democracy. The EU has, and has, its setbacks, and these setbacks are often based on authoritarian and intolerant estimates of just civil society. Negative developments in Poland and Hungary have thus been able to counter Norway through EEA funds, which have largely contributed to building under fundamental rule of law, freedom of organisation and expression. European cooperation helps us to find a solution to climate change, which is a threat to our entire life base and our entire civilization to an extent we have never seen before. This is the greatest challenge of our time, and it's only through cooperation that we can cut emissions quickly enough to avoid catastrophic changes all over the world. Cultural understanding is so lacking. At the end of this week we celebrate our national day. Some of us boast that this day is not a cultivation of self-righteousness. Some of us are withdrawing the lines from the national building in the 1800s to European currents built on the French revolution, and that we are able to see the European in the national – and national – parts of the European. Our alliance tradition would not be the same without Hulda Garborg's orientation towards European flows. In its Norwegianness Hulda was an European. She knew her Rousseau, and even wrote a book about him, she knew what democracy is – and was – and she knew the limits of self-godliness. The theme modem that she was involved in cultivating and modifying, we know to a large extent based on European fashion. For example, if we take – at random – a bundle from the Hedmark, we see that the trough is built on classical elements from the end of the 1700s. Classisism is the gateway to modern Europe, to the progress and rebirth of democracy. The bow points, I dare claim, still forward towards the modern. It is about knowledge and transparency rather than separatism and the belief that everything that was is going to be what should be. We never escape our European and humanistic heritage, and – paradoxically enough – just by holding back this tradition, we can counteract the forces that today want to reverse the clock. No, it's no illusion that we can all become Europeans. We're Europeans.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e371	I would also like to start by thanking the Secretary of State for a very good report. And as the representative Lightbakken said, this distribution also contained a lot about climate. I think that climate is a good example of an area where we work very hard with the EU. We've had it over a long, long time, and the way we do it now, Norway has the ability to take new grips, new steps forward, and that's what I thought the distribution said in a very good way. EEA cooperation is crucial – I actually want to use so much words – for our security, our well-being and our value creation. On 1 January 2019 it was 25 years since we entered into that agreement, so we mark the 25th anniversary of the EEA Agreement. We experience that he has a record in the Norwegian people. That's 20 pst. Which is against him, it's over 60 pst. which provides support to the EEA Agreement. As long as we've measured, we haven't had a stronger uprising around him. That does not mean that there are no challenges with him, but the Norwegian people see the meaning of him. The paradox today is that the parties that were behind the EEA agreement might not have believed that it would be the permanent solution. But today he stands out more clearly and clearly as just the permanent solution. Europe is Norway's closest and most important market. Every four employees in Norwegian industry work in export companies, and 75 pst. Norwegian exports go to EU countries. Of the 99 bn. Norway exported seafood in 2018, sold for 66 billion. kr to just the EU market. I would also say that the EEA Agreement is more than market access. It provides Norwegian citizens with the same rights and opportunities as EU citizens in the areas covered by the agreement. But I also want to say that we have a community of values with the EU. Norway is involved in European cooperation – in our way – because not only do we share our interests, but we also have a community of values with our partners in the EEA. We need to ensure good European solutions to the challenges facing our citizens and European citizens. It is particularly important in a troubled time when nationalism and protectionism win terrain. Yesterday, Hungary's prime minister was in the White House. He was hailed by President Trump. I hope everyone has noticed the way the EU has handled Prime Minister Orbán. These are the values that Norway stands for. And I'll also be clear, just as Per-Willy Amundsen's representative did, that I thought the government was in favour of the way they handled the various brexit options that lie there. No matter what solution will be landed, Norway will be well-forbidden, and it will fuel the government's favor. Brexit also shows that the options are not that simple. We also have an exciting choice, where it is also exciting to see what leads we get, both because the UK election is going to be so special, and because some parties, which do not raise the values that are important to Norway, can unfortunately make surprising good choices.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e392	This year, 25 years have passed since Norway entered the EEA. Unlike Erna Solberg, who got a VIP ticket to celebrate the anniversary with the EU summits in Brussels, many people here in Norway do not want to celebrate at all. On the contrary, the beautiful words of the Minister of Foreign Affairs seem far from reality, a reality in which the EEA both builds up Norway’s independence and undermines the strongly fought rights of the Norwegian trade union movement. Earlier this year, I visited the largest branch of the Joint Union, Section 5, in the West – imaginative industrial workers who have been among the main defenders of the EEA Agreement for a long time. Now they've turned around, and with that, the whole LO can turn around and go to the EEA Congress in 2021. The background to the turnaround of Section 5 is what's happening in the workplace, that's that they see hundreds of resident workers being dumped on the yards, while instead flying into low-paid Eastern Europeans. There are no local employees in the production, no apprentices, and the trade unions disappear. This is why many in the trade union movement are increasingly turning towards the EEA Agreement. Supporters of the agreement talk about taking advantage of the scope of action in the agreement. But the will of the yes parties to exploit the space of action is starting to look more and more like a unicorn: there's something in the adventures and in fine speeches on the Storting, but no one out there in the workplaces looks something special. Every time the EU wants three dictatorships down our heads, which damage Norwegian sovereignty and working life, the parties say yes to absolutely everything that comes from the EU. At a time when the Brussels dictatorships are increasingly undermining the Norwegian model of society, government policy is not using the one democratic mechanism that actually exists in the EEA, namely the right of veto. We stand for the opposite. We want Norway out of the EEA. We want to replace the agreement with a trade agreement, which ensures market access for Norwegian industry, but without our country being subject to a union of which we are not a member. We know that's possible. This was the case with the free trade agreement from 1972 until we got the EEA. As long as we are a member of the EEA, unlike the Labour Party and the Right, we will actually use the right to veto the protection of Norwegian society against the EU decisions that go beyond the Norwegian model, which weaken our national self-determination, and which, not least, undermine the rights of workers, as a number of EU dictators have done. There are more of them on a regular basis, and we have to stand up to the European Union. Firstly, the fourth railway package of the EU, which means permanent privatisation of the railways in Norway. No matter what the Norwegian people may think, and even if we are going to have a new large number, it must therefore be eternal privatisation if the European Union gets it as it pleases. Secondly, the enlargements of ACER, the EU Energy Union, thus gaining power over Norwegian energy and industrial policies. Thirdly, the EU labour market agency, ELA, which, in the worst case, can mean a serious attack on the Norwegian labour market model. Fourthly, the EU mobility package, where the EU Commission will have further liberalisation of transport, could lead to a drastic deterioration in the Norwegian transport sector, both for drivers’ working conditions and not least for safety on Norwegian roads, which is already exacerbated by dangerous foreign vehicle combinations, which are unable to drive safely on Norwegian winter roads because drivers do not have experience and competence in handling Norwegian winter conditions. One thing is in any case certain: red will go against these decisions. We want to veto these directives. We are joining forces with the trade union movement in order for the Storting to take up the idea and stop these directives from the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e417	I would first like to thank you for your good input into the debate so far. I will also be able to attach a few words first to the brexit and brexit preparations. It is, as Stortinget is well-known, a work with which the government has worked intensively for a long time, and it is in order to be optimally prepared for all eventualities. Even now that Brexit is at risk, we know that preparations are continuing both on the EU side, on the British side, on our side, and also on Iceland and Liechtenstein. In this context, I would like to refer to the briefings I have given regularly in the European Committee of the Regions, but also to thank the Stortinget for having been quick to deal with the powers that the government needed to implement, for example. regulatory changes that have been necessary. It is also the case that the debate follows well-known lines. I spent time in my presentation defending EEA cooperation. I was very clear that the only option I see in the EEA Agreement for Norway is full membership, so that we can take care of our interests in the same or better way. I also spent time on some of the developments that I think are worrying in Europe. There are trends that focus in particular on the emergence of nationalism and populism, and the fact that some European countries are turning their backs on some of our common values. It is a concern I experience that Stortinget also shares. There is nothing directly related to the EU other than the fact that the EU is actually imposing sanctions and instruments in order to deal with precisely what we are seeing. It is also positive, in my opinion, that we are now seeing a situation in which cooperation with the EU for Norway is undergoing a very positive development through EEA cooperation. It was clearly marked on 22 March, when both the Prime Minister and others were present to mark this anniversary. As the President of the European Council, Donald Tusk, emphasised in his speech, the EEA Agreement is a partnership in which all contribute and all regain. I believe it is a very bold policy to realise that Norway was going to withdraw from the EEA Agreement, with the consequence it would have for Norwegian jobs, for Norwegian districts and not least for the development of our well-being. When Norway cooperates closely with the EU and Europe, it is because it serves our interests, not because we have to. This, of course, does not mean that cooperation is problem-free or cannot be improved. It also spends a lot of time and energy, both on playing on themes where we believe that we can influence EU policies in the right direction, which serve our interests even better, and we do so in cooperation with other countries, in order to contribute to the rule of law that we disagree with, not become part of EU legislation. We see it, for example. in the case of cabotage, where we have joined several other countries. This proposed legislation is otherwise, which is also significantly controversial in the EU, and is currently also at risk. In conclusion, I would just like to say that there is a growing insinuation that Norway is being forced by the EU to privatise the rail system. It is simply not right, and the representatives Lysbakken and Moxnes know that well. We can organise the sector according to our national wishes and needs. We can finance the railway over the public budgets, just like we do. There is no requirement for the infrastructure manager to be an enterprise, but it is a model we have chosen, completely independent of the EU. We have no claim to privatize the railway, but there is access for private companies to compete for traffic contracts with the public. There is no requirement to suspend or privatise operational and maintenance tasks performed by or for the infrastructure manager. That's something we can choose to do. We can choose to ask Bane NOR to do that. But this has nothing to do with the fourth railway package, and I think it's important that we're precise about what's going on.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e431	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e436	Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for an interesting article now. Europe is going to vote next Sunday, and what kind of outcome it will get will also have something to say for Norway. We follow in excitement and maybe also in fear, because we see right-wing populist parties mobilizing all over Europe. It will be exciting to see how they will do it, and it will also be interesting to see what kind of position they will have in Parliament after the elections. The Orbán Party has been the Right Sister Party. I think it is good that the Right has been clear that they do not belong in the same umbrella organisation. But the party, Fidesz, is still part of the EPP parliamentary group in the European Parliament. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think that they should continue to have the same status after the elections and join the Conservative Party Group in the European Parliament?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e445	I am pleased that the August representative is also concerned about the elections in Europe, because I think we can see, after the elections, that the composition of the new European Parliament and also the leading bodies of the European Union can be more fragmented than we have been accustomed to in recent years. Of course, it will also have consequences for us as an EEA country. These include: on the adoption of laws, regulations and administrative provisions. The right was very clear, in a letter that was sent, that we thought Fidesz should be suspended from EPP, and that has now happened. I think it's pretty likely that Fidesz will want to leave EPP after the election and find together with other like-minded parties in Europe. It's a reasonable assumption, even based on what Fidesz himself has signaled. But what that landscape will look like after the election, I think it's too early to say yet.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e452	Thanks for the answer, but I really didn't get an answer to what I was asking, because the question was not what it was natural for Fidesz to do, the question was what the Foreign Minister thought they should do. Does she think that Fidesz can have a place around the conservative table in the European Parliament and be part of the tongue on the scale of which party group is growing? It is clear that the Right wants the Conservative parties to do well, but I would like the Foreign Minister to say clearly that Fidesz did not belong to their party family in the European Parliament, that they should not have any place there, and that the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Norwegian Party The Right and, in fact, the Christian People's Party were going to work against the fact that Fidesz would still be able to have membership in the Right Group of the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e457	Yes, we have. The Prime Minister has sent a letter to the EPP stating clearly that Fidesz is not considered to be part of the political value base of the EPP, and that is also why Fidesz is suspended. Norway has no influence on how these parliamentary groups are going to be put together, and I believe, as I was about to say, that we can see some quite significant changes. We can see the dissolution of different associations and the formation of new ones. For example, there are several people who point out that ALDE can go along with Macron's movement, which does not have seats in the current Parliament, but which on a value basis will be quite similar and perhaps join together. So the Right and I and the Prime Minister have clearly stated what we think about Fidesz’s policy, and we have also done so in a way that has made them now suspended from the EPP.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e462	Thank you to the Council of State for the distribution and for the debate we have today. In its submission, the Council of State stated that participation in the European Defence Fund was considered important for Norwegian defence, Norwegian defence research and the defence industry. At the same time, Norwegian participation through the EEA Agreement will be cost-required. She also said that the government has started a thorough analysis of different aspects related to any Norwegian participation. I've been to Bardufoss and I've learned even more about the Army than I knew before, not least about how demanding an economy is. Interestingly, the government is considering the important question of principle: how much should such participation cost, and should it be in addition to the ordinary budget, or will it go beyond the Norwegian defence?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e471	The reason for participating in PESCO will be that it will also strengthen Norwegian defence, not least European security. As I was in the presentation, it is far too early to: [[The representative of Navarsete cancels]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e478	The fund.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e483	I'm sorry, it was the fund. I'm sorry. In any case, the point of entering EDF, this fund, is that it also strengthens Norwegian security and the Norwegian defence industry. Then we have said that it has a significant cost as it is now, and there is no decision yet on whether third countries should be able to participate. We are the only third country to participate in the pilot scheme, but it is unlikely that a decision will be taken by the European Parliament and the European institutions until later this year. We have therefore started an analysis of the costs of this, both real and socio-economic. The point must be that if we find that it has a value that defends the cost, it will be interesting for Norway to be able to participate. At least we wanted the European Union to keep the opportunity open for us.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e492	The Central Party agrees with the Council of State in its concern that political leaders in EU countries turn their backs on a common basis of value. This applies not least to what is going on in the state of law, and to the fact that several political leaders speak out in such a way that one is seaworthy. What we have to ask ourselves is why it's going to be like that. On the part of the ILO, there is at least a clear link between economic policy and social unrest, which gives rise to political unrest. The center party is listening to Guy Ryder. What is the EU is an experiment without a model; it has the euro without a finance department. My question is: does the Council of State think that this construction, this experiment – having a euro without a finance department over the euro countries – will function in such a way that it will promote democratic development?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e499	I fundamentally disagree with the premise that the European Union is an experiment. The EU is the sum of the EU Member States. I believe, as I said in my statement, that the development from the Coal and Steel Union to the cooperation we are seeing today has been essential for Europe's security, prosperity and prosperity. This does not mean that it is problem-free, but that means that the cooperation agreed today, including the euro, is based on the consensus between European countries based on what serves the best interests of European countries. Of course, being in the euro is completely voluntary. There are countries that have chosen to stand outside. Of course, it is again based on what they believe to be their national interests, what serves both national and community interests. I therefore believe that the developments we have seen in the European Union over the last two decades – with closer integration – have come as a result of a desire from the Member States for closer cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e507	The Council of State does not answer the question. We know that Prime Minister Solberg wanted Norway to join the euro. It would have been a big accident. I agree that the name is not bad for anyone. One doesn't have to call it an experiment. The point is that there are no places in other parts of the world where you have something similar. Nowhere in the world has a country or rural area where one has a single currency without a Ministry of Finance with tax law. That's why the scientists call an experiment. The next question: working life and labour income are fundamental to a non-insecurity. Does the Council of State believe that today, at the supranational level of the EU countries, one has a popular governance of the world of work? If not, why should the Storting not have the role that it has always had in managing the labour market, which is the slogan of the Centre Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e514	Here were many questions at once. I can respond very briefly to the first by saying that I find it interesting to record that in many regions of the world, Europe is being looked at, and to the North too, because of our ever-closer economic integration, as a way of driving welfare growth. To the issue of working life: I am of the opinion, which I have discussed with the representative Lundtigen in the past, that the EEA agreement has also been a good thing for Norwegian working life in sum. It is Norway that governs our labour market policy, and the EEA legislation has given us rules in areas where we did not have it before. Most of these rules are minimum rules, which means that we have great flexibility to design our own. However, the fact that we have strengthened employee rights — for example: as regards rights in the case of business transfers and mass redundancies, rules on written working arrangements, working environment standards and HMS, information and consultation with employees – I believe are good examples that EEA cooperation has also given direction to our rules in a positive way to employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e521	I remember from the debates on the 1994 referendum that young EU enthusiasts on the right-hand side had an argument that they used very often, and that was that we had to come in to influence. Of course, then the question arises as to what we should influence, because Norway has some potential for impact. Among other things, the state councils travel at various ministerial meetings in the EU and I suppose it is to influence. Then there are several people who wonder what the government's representative actually did at the Energy Minister's meeting in Bucuresti in early April, where eleven EU countries refused to join the opinion because it was too defensive in the climate, while Norway seems to have gone for it. In this context, did Norway choose to act as a climate sink instead of supporting the EU countries that wanted a more offensive profile?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e528	I think there is little doubt that we have seen great benefits in the field of climate change with EU cooperation, and I believe that the EU has gone ahead in a good way. That is also one of the reasons why I spent so much time on climate issues in my presentation. As far as the question of how the Norwegian representative dealt with opinions at the informal ministerial meeting in Bucuresti is concerned – as the representative Lysbakken well knows – falls within the responsibility of the Minister for Oil and Energy. I don't have the answer to this right now, but I'm going to be able to figure that out.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e535	It concerns the EU Mobility Package. I take the floor from the government when it says that it is trying to prevent the result from further liberalisation of the Norwegian transport sector. I have two questions: The first is whether the Minister of Foreign Affairs can guarantee that if the EU adopts the Mobility Package Part 1, which does not tighten up, but liberalises freight transport. The second is that the current proposal for part 2 of the EU Commission’s package on passenger transport will allow East European companies and drivers to operate express routes in Norway. It can lead to more social dumping and poorer safety in the passenger transport sector. According to the industry, this could lead to the bankruptcy of Norwegian companies and the closure of less profitable bus routes in Norway. Can the government guarantee that such an EU mobility package will not be introduced in Norway if this were to go through in Parliament, which is the proposal of the European Commission?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e546	As I discussed both in my statement and in my post here today, this is some of the things that have been significantly controversial also in the EU. The government has taken a very clear position on this. We want to keep the legislation as it is today. We do not want liberalisation. We have also committed ourselves to working actively against this liberalisation. That being said, the compromises that so far lie there are sloppy, and the work in the EU is not finished either. We don't know exactly what it's going to look like. There are now few who expect there to be any votes or final assessments before a new European Parliament and new bodies are in place, i.e. later this fall. We're going to continue the work that we've just done. We're also going to continue with the countries we've joined in an alliance with, the Road Alliance, with which I was involved in my presentation, to keep the legislation as it is. We feel that there is considerable support for that position also in other countries, and the alliance we are included in is a broad alliance.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e553	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e558	For 25 years we have had the EEA Agreement as a framework for our relationship with the European Union. I guess it's earned us in a lot of ways. First of all, it takes care of the interests of the export industries. It makes the market that accepts about 75 pst. of our exports, to a domestic market. Common legislation removes frontier barriers. The contract covers the export of services as well as the export of goods. There is no other type of trade agreement. That is the benefit of being within the internal market. This is what the British now have to contend with when they have resigned from membership, but still want to join a single internal market only for goods. Integration, of course, presents challenges. In the labour market, national policies must be met, as the government of Stoltenberg did through a series of measures against social dumping. There is a good room within the EEA Agreement. Those who claim that we can only fall back on the trade agreement from the 1970s, and that it is good enough for Norwegian export industries, live on an illusion. Trade is no longer what it was. There's not so much that's being made here and sold there. It's about being part of an international value chain. Goods and services are collapsing. About 40 pst. the export value of many goods is services. It's about installation, service and upgrades. However, the most worrying thing about fighting for Norway to act like the British, leaving the internal market, is the signal and perspective of international cooperation. There has been broad consensus here in the Chamber that Norway is served with an international order built on common institutions and a code respected by large and small countries. This is about to break up. In the United States there is a president who withdraws from the Paris Agreement, who undermines the WTO dispute resolution mechanism, and who believes customs duties on imports into the United States are what the exporting countries pay. In the United Kingdom, they will be out of 50 years of integration and cooperation. In Hungary and Poland, we see regimes that weaken democracy and the principles of the rule of law. Which of the major challenges we face today – the climate crisis, the migration and refugee crisis, high unemployment in many countries – will be easier to solve if we get not just an “America first”, but “Britain first”, “China first”, “India first”, etc.? What kind of vision are they having, those who want to cancel the EEA Agreement, for cooperation and development in Europe? The representative Lightbaking says that SV is for international cooperation. That is good, but is SV for committed international cooperation, where countries take decisions together and comply with them? In connection with the EEA Agreement and our other cooperation with the EU, we talk a lot about caring for our own interests. It's important. But is not the European integration we have experienced in the last 60 years the very foundation for our own interests? What would be better, what would be easier to solve from our challenges if EU countries broke up with 60 years of cooperation? Would our opportunities to resolve the climate crisis be greater about the only genuine, committed cooperation we have internationally, left the commitments and just thought about ourselves? The representative Tetzschner claims that the Workers' Party has not been as clear defenders of the EEA as the representative Huitfeldt stated in his statement. Tetzschner should consider whether his own party and the representatives of the other government parties in this Chamber are sufficiently visible in the debate on the EEA. Where, for example, were they? when the debate on Acer took place? They were sitting quietly. Even the oil minister was absent. A chronicle in the class struggle was everything. Furthermore, perhaps Tetzschner should be more concerned about the attitude of the Progress Party towards the EEA and the EU after hearing the input of the representative Per-Willy Amundsen into this debate. Here, there was double communication and national populism in free circulation. Then Lundtigen says that the EU is an experiment. Well, it started like that, you might say, to end strife and war in Europe, but it's now been over 60 years. And one must say that it is extremely successful and a model for many other regions. It reminds me of the poet Robert Frost, who had an expression that Robert Kennedy often used in his speeches: Too many see the world as it is, and say why; I dream of things no one has seen, and say why not? The EU is such a ‘why not’, and they have solved it – and we should have more of that in international politics.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e586	Thank you to Minister for Foreign Affairs Eriksen Soreide for a very thorough and important presentation, and thank you also to the chairperson of the Committee, who gives a clear tribute to the EEA Agreement by the Workers' Party. This year the EEA Agreement celebrates 25 years. Attitude studies show that the emergence of the Norwegian population on the EEA Agreement is record high. The nation published a survey last November that revealed that 60.2 p.m. says they would have voted yes if there was a referendum on the EEA agreement tomorrow. It's the highest resolution ever measured. The EEA Agreement may be called a welfare subscription. The welfare depends on the creation of value, and in order for companies to be able to create, they must also have a market to sell their goods and services in. When 80 pst. Norwegian exports go to the EEA territory, it states the importance of this Agreement. Prime Minister Solberg said on 10 May that ‘300 billion are in danger’ if we lose the EEA Agreement. The figures are not something the Prime Minister has guessed to himself, they are produced by the Statistics Central Bureau’s own figures for Norwegian exports in 2018. The value of the EEA for the counties shows that there is no Oslo phenomenon. In fact, Oslo comes out as one of the smallest states measured in the export value of enterprises. At the top we find counties like Hordaland, Rogaland, More and Romesdal, Nordland and Tøndelag. The EEA Agreement is important for Norwegian business, but it is important for many other areas as well. The consumer rights given to our citizens through the EEA are great. We can travel freely throughout the EEA territory. We can live wherever we want and work wherever we want. Our students are given unique study opportunities in Europe, with equal access to European universities and lucrative grant schemes, such as the Erasmus programme. In the case of a disease in an EU/EEA country, with European health insurance cards, we have the same right to health care as its own citizens. In addition, we are now releasing high mobile bills for vacation stays abroad. Mobile use costs the same as at home throughout the EEA territory. All of these are benefits that the EEA Agreement gives us. The most dangerous thing for Norwegian district jobs is years with uncertain framework conditions. Therefore, the Right will never agree to discuss the EEA Agreement. If international market access agreements are to be jeopardized, districts will also be wasted. The EEA Agreement is more important for Finnmark than for Oslo. It ensures a level playing field and predictability for the placing on the market of their products. In addition, it ensures access to labour to districts from the rest of Europe, which for many, many years has been crucial to keeping the population up. The alliance between the Workers' Party, SV, Red, the Centre Party and the Green Party is the worst thing that can happen to our districts. They say no to roads, no to local jobs, no to EEA and also no to oil and gas. There is less development in the districts – that is no more. And to look at the Center Party: in my view, this party throws blues in the eyes of people when they promise business development, because their partners are against most. The worst thing that can happen to the districts is just the left - let's call it - noxit. When one sees where the action lamb the British have been for two years, it does not tempt. Nevertheless, the Center Party goes to elections on just that. This will mean an export crisis for the fish in the north, for the oil in the west and for the timber in the interior. The EEA Agreement is more important for large parts of our country than for Oslo. Putting it into play will be the greatest threat to District Norway as we know it today. The advantage of districts is precisely to create jobs based on the natural advantages. It will often create major ring-fences for local communities. The districts just need politicians who say yes to the mineral industry, yes to more hydropower, yes to farming, yes to new roads in the districts and yes to the EEA Agreement. The last business sector in the districts needs policy-makers who demand that we jeopardize the EEA Agreement — and even increase in taxes — give priority to protection over growth and prevent rural areas from getting the development they need and which is important for the development of the welfare society in Norway. The EEA Agreement is crucial.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e607	At the beginning of his speech, Huitfeldt’s representative addressed the whole problem of free flow of people and what it leads to of apathy, dissatisfaction and unrest – and with the emergence of the right-wing populist party and strongly increasing political polarisation in Europe. Obviously, it doesn't impress the strong yes-majority that is in this room. Countless gangs are talking about the European Union as the great peace project. One points to the EU as an actor where civil – not military – instruments are used in the exercise of power. PESCO and other initiatives in the field of defence policy suggest that the EU should now be militarised. In this post, I want to talk about the emerging defence cooperation. There is a great deal in this Chamber that NATO has both ours and is our most important alliance. Our close cooperation with our allies also offers Norway opportunities outside the military and security policy. When the EU now establishes permanent, structured cooperation, known as PESCO, several of our most important allies and NATO itself have pointed out that there may be challenges with the new cooperation. In November 2018, the President of France, Emmanuel Macron, said that Europe had to establish an army that would be equipped to resist action, even from the United States, which is our closest ally. NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg said in a press release from NATO: ‘I have been aware of the fact that the EU’s initiative cannot compete with NATO and cannot duplicate NATO, since NATO will still be the cornerstone of European security. We have to remember that 80 pst. by NATO budgets come from non-EU countries after Brexit, and three out of four battlegroups in the Baltic will be leased by non-EU countries.’ – NATO itself is not the only one with a warning. Katie Wheelbarger, representative of the Pentagon in the United States, our most important ally, thought full traceability and transparency in the structure was a prerequisite for cooperation. She also pointed out that all the PESCO seats had to be based on NATO's demands. This suggests that PESCO can help build walls instead of cooperation. There's no ignition. The European Defence Fund, which shall finance the new defence cooperation, shall be established as a permanent arrangement from 2021. I would like to remind the House that Sweden's Minister of Defence, in front of the EU's Foreign and Defence Ministers meeting, said that Sweden had no plans to join a European army. He also said that he saw defence as a national responsibility, that Sweden regards the EU as a cooperation between national states and not as a federation. Sweden is a participant in PESCO, but they are clearly concerned about the direction. PESCO can be a step towards an EU army. Several EU countries have not joined PESCO. I cannot say that it is strange that today’s government is willing to enter into cooperation, with their attitude to the EU. But I think I should listen to take a foot in the ground and wait until we see what the result is about the thoughts of Merkel and Macron about the EU army. What happens if a country that is part of any EU army, but not of NATO, is hit by action? Given the spread of the conflict to NATO countries, we could face a major dilemma against Article 5 of the NATO Treaty. Yesterday I was at Bardufoss and got good information about what the Defense needs, then with a special focus on the Army. There is no doubt that we in Norway should concentrate on building up our own defences and our own military forces to meet NATO’s demands – rather than spending money on some airy defence cooperation in the EU. The centre party is looking at things with unrest. NATO has ours and must be our most important ally. We have a long way to go before we meet NATO's demands for Norwegian defence. We tend to have close cooperation with our allies in Europe. Military investment is cheaper by associating with our allies, and we can adapt the material to interact with NATO. But it does us all through the good cooperation we have in NATO. We do not need to enter into a permanent structure in the EU to continue cooperation. It is important that the majority of the Grand Council think about it and see that we must first and foremost carry out our good cooperation in NATO – that it can satisfy what we need to ensure Norway's peace and security.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e637	I would also like to start by joining all those who have thanked the Minister for Foreign Affairs for a good account. It is good, I think, that the Storting regularly has this opportunity to discuss important EU and EEA issues. This time the debate is taking place with a forthcoming European Parliament elections and changing the Commission as a hindrance. The Minister of Foreign Affairs made a point in his speech of encouraging the Stortinget to actively use its channels through the party groups and establish good contacts with the new parliament, and then I was going to take this opportunity to respond to it and say that there is a call that we are taking seriously. Because although there is a broad consensus on the EEA agreement in Stortinget – and just let me say it emphatically – it is not relevant for the Workers' Party to contribute to creating uncertainty about Norway's main trade agreement and the form of association with Europe – over the last few years we have had a broader and I would like to say a better debate on the impact of the agreement on parts of Norwegian working life and what kind of space we actually have to influence. That's good. The agreement is not made of glass, and we must be willing to test out what this famous space of action really means, when important principles are at stake. If we don't, the agreement can lose legitimacy among people, and for us who are adherents to this agreement, it will be the most, most dangerous. We tested that space of action at the time of the fall back on the hydropower, and I believe that the field of work is another field where it is important that we mark where the boundaries go. Then it is important to say first that in recent years important decisions have been taken to strengthen the rights of European workers. The changes to the Posting of Workers Directive are one of the examples. At the same time, however, there has also been an increasingly strong trend towards retail regulation, and it is clear that it can be challenging for us. EU requirements in the field of working life are minimum requirements and countries are initially free to have stricter rules. It is also important to clarify that negotiations, collective labour law and labour struggle are outside the contract. What often limits is when our labour regulations can collide with the four freedoms. But it is very often an interpretation issue, especially before case law is established, and before the start of judgment. That is why it is so important that we are present that we establish dialogue and understanding of Norwegian views. Unlike the representative of Moxnes, I believe that the case of ELA, a joint labour inspectorate, is an example of how Norwegian politicians and Norwegian trade union movement have been present early in the process, working with like-minded people and getting an understanding of the Nordic model and the special status of the negotiated collective agreements in that model. Because these are agreements we can't risk being overrun, and the Workers' Party has also signaled very clearly in the Storting in connection with debates on the ELA. This has worked, and we have to do more of that. The EEA Agreement has not been a barrier to our work environment law. It's the government that has been behind the changes we've seen in recent years that have gone in the wrong direction. But the agreement has changed the reality of the ground in much of our working life. We have to take that into account, and more should have been done by the Norwegian authorities to ensure that pay and working conditions in Norway are enforced. Therefore, in conclusion, I would just like to mention that in two days' time, Stortinget will deal with a proposal to include the ILO core conventions in the Human Rights Act. It would send a clear signal that central labour rights are as important as other human rights, and it would oblige Norwegian courts to give precedence to the ILO conventions if there were contradictions with other legislation. That proposal is not intended for majority voting, and I think it is a pity for several reasons, mainly because the Stortinget does not use the opportunity to strengthen the status of workers' rights in Norway, but also because I think it would help to increase the legitimacy of the EEA Agreement among those who feel the consequences of it most directly on the body. Yes, trade is absolutely crucial to our well-being, but our whole model and our whole history are based on sharing both the benefits and the risks of being an open economy. We have to keep that in mind, because that is the prerequisite for a more protectionist line not to win out in Norway, as it has done in so many other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e662	I too must be allowed to thank the Foreign Minister for a thorough presentation. But it should be said that it is not as easy to explain the many consequences of brexit as the situation is inconspicuous. Of course, the presentation has been marked by brexit and the consequences for Norway, and I think that is right. There is a debate going on, a debate initiated by SV, on exploring alternatives to the EEA Agreement for Norway. There is no need to explore such alternatives. Brexit makes the options for Norway very visible. If Norway wishes to withdraw from the EEA Agreement, Norway must negotiate termination, transitional arrangements and future agreements through the same process. The situation of Norway will be quite similar to that of the United Kingdom, but our negotiating power is significantly weaker than that of the United Kingdom. The EU will hardly give more to Norway than it has given to the UK. The relationship between the EU and Norway is distorted. The EU consists of 500 million people. Norway consists of 5 million. Access to an internal market of 500 million people — under domestic conditions — is an advantage that cannot be replaced by anything else. The EEA Agreement is in a special position with regard to Norwegian agreements with the EU. Norway and Norway are more dependent on the EU than the EU is dependent on Norway. In addition, the EEA Agreement prevents the EU from using a trade policy press against Norway, it guarantees us the right to participate, and much indicates that only an EU membership will be better than the current EEA Agreement. A safe Europe demands a stable and secure Europe throughout Europe. The EEA Agreement has been a springboard for participation in policy areas other than purely commercial policy – in the field of justice and, most recently, also in the field of security and defence. Norway, as the only non-EU nation, participates in European defence cooperation through the research part of the European Defence Fund. It is important for the Norwegian defence industry. I am addressing the investigation that has been announced, whether Norway is going to enter the industry itself, but there is no doubt that Norway's defence industry, which is so high-tech, highly competent and so internationally, is likely to have great interest and benefits in being able to participate fully in this scheme. The representative of Navarsete asked the right parties to mind and attach it up to PESCO. If someone should be thinking about this matter, it might be Navarsette himself. Firstly, Norway is not intended to enter into PESCO cooperation. There's no doubt that PESCO cooperation has something to do with it, but it has to complete NATO and not duplicate NATO's capabilities. And then to the representative Lysbakken, who said that the EEA Agreement was ‘a right-wing subscription scheme’. So distorted it is possible to analyse – if I will allow myself to use that word – Norway’s relationship with Europe. What is the subscription scheme that SV wants – a customs system, restrictions on freedom of movement and a lot of other restrictions that will put Norwegian jobs and businesses in jeopardy? Finally, I would also like to thank the government for making such a significant effort to safeguard Norway’s interests, regardless of what the UK situation with the EU would be. The United Kingdom is a very important partner for Norway in the EU, and it is therefore important that our relationship with the United Kingdom can be continued as painfully as possible – to put it that way – in the course of whatever UK has to decide. The one who lives will see.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e681	I too would like to thank the Foreign Minister for a very good presentation. It is very important that there is broad agreement on the main features of European policy. We are now 25 years into life with the EEA Agreement, and I think you can safely say that it has served us well. It has been repeatedly shown by investigations by several governments. I also think it is wise to reflect around that it is far from certain that it would have been possible to achieve an equally good agreement if you had started today. The period in which the EEA Agreement was concluded was an optimistic period of progress for the whole of European cooperation, which began just around the fall of the Berlin Wall. The best thing to hope for the EFTA States of the day was a non-membership relationship. There were completely different frameworks only a few years later, and what existed in negotiations between twelve EU countries and six, later seven, EFTA countries, had hardly been the same today. It's a solid and good deal we end up about, the experience has shown it. I also believe that today we are living in a much more troubled world than the world we saw when we finally concluded the agreement in this room, in 1994. And if there's any time when it's important to stick to the fixing points, it's right now. Here's a broad consensus. I was and am a strong supporter of the densest possible integration into European cooperation. The only alternative to the EEA Agreement I can see is full membership. It is not on the agenda now, and that is why we are calling about the EEA Agreement. I would also like to mention the entire debate on brexit, what has happened in the United Kingdom, but also the very clear clarity that the EU, through Chief Barnier, has shown to the United Kingdom. Barnier, supported by all Member States, has said that it is up to the United Kingdom to choose its integration model. You can have a solution that looks like the EEA. You can have a solution similar to Switzerland’. Under that one can have a customs union, like Turkey, or a trade agreement, like Canada. But you can't have Norway's rights with Canada's obligations, there must be a connection between rights and obligations. It is probably the most obvious message that has come from the EU through the important process, and I think it is a good idea to be angry. I would also like to underline something that the representative Marthinsen very correctly and importantly addressed. I believe that all of us who believe in the value of cooperation and the value of this agreement must seriously take on us that there is a concern in parts of the world of work that is extremely understandable. The EEA is the wrong address, but the turmoil is real. It is a real concern about real problems. Because although the Minister of Foreign Affairs is quite right that labour law has either been strengthened or has remained the same with the EEA – that is also my assessment – we have got a more complex workforce. I don't think any of us in Norway have been good enough, either the state or the social partners, to take full care of the solid tradition we have, and as we call it the Norwegian model, in the face of a more complex workforce. That is why I experience in many ways that the great struggle to maintain the broad support for the EEA is precisely that we are taking the challenges of our own working life very seriously. So it's not so much an international political issue as a national capacity, like LO, employers, state and we all have together, that we have to close the gaps that have been allowed to arise, not because of the EEA, but because we have a more complex workforce via the EEA. Finally, I would like to mention that there has been a series of European messages. I have had the pleasure of contributing to two of them – one in 2000 and one in 2012 – and the Minister for Foreign Affairs has delivered the last. All of the messages – which I think are good, all as one – conclude that we need to be even more good at choosing our kind, being early out, being present in many channels, arguing well, not thinking for national, but trying to make our issues international. The fact that we have to say it every time is a reminder that this is unfinished work, because we're in a very close, binding international agreement. But not everyone in Norway is fully aware of how it is used, and it is a task for the government, which I believe the government has to take seriously. It's a task for us in the Biggest, from all parties, and it's very important that we really go deep into that message, which we've had for many years. So it's going to be very early. Once the decisions are made, there is little to do. But there is a lot to do in advance, even if you do not have the right to vote in the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e694	It has already been said, but I feel a strong need to repeat it: earlier in the debate, the representative Tetzschner said that it was good that there was finally – almost – a heavy marking from the Workers' Party when it came to the conclusion of the EEA Agreement. It's a completely unfounded concern, and he knows it very well himself, and that's why I want to say it. That's why it should have been almost unsaid. What characterises this debate now, and which should be quite serious about the representative Tetzschner, but also the foreign minister, is that we hear a representative of the government parties, the representative Per-Willy Amundsen, who is putting a mark on the really heavy impact on EEA membership. It is this nationalist thinking that is spreading in Europe, and for which the American President is unfortunately at the forefront. It is a fundamental challenge for international cooperation, which, of course, goes beyond Norwegian EEA membership, but is about the whole culture and mentality of international policies that are necessary for international cooperation. I do believe that the Foreign Minister should make a mark on exactly this part of the debate, before it is over – it would be reassuring if she distanced, or commented, this part of the discussion and the representative Per-Willy Amundsen said. So there's this thing about the relationship between the nation states and international cooperation. We are facing two fundamental challenges in the coming years. It is the environmental challenge, and it is the management of all the new technological developments. Who believes that it is possible to deal with it for the sake of the nation state? Is it a matter of fact, is it politically sound to mean it? No, not in my opinion, all the historical experience, all the experience in Europe, points in the other direction. It is when the nation states stand against each other, with different types of interests, that conflicts are increasing, and that Europe – as the foremost bearer of democracy and cultural development – is being tested. That's what this is also about when we talk about EEA membership. For Norway has chosen that way, and regardless of the other aspects related to this, this is a side of EEA membership that I believe is trombling a lot of the discussion. Then it is said that there is – of course – concern about the trade union movement. I allow myself to say here in Stortinget that I can quite a lot about that. It's a worry that's very well justified, because they experience these things at their workplace. Now I heard – and I was about to say that I almost staggered a little – the foreign minister said that it was not the EEA that had put the lead on the handling of the future railway. No, but then the question is, why do they do it? Of course, it's because it's the Right People, and they want that policy – I understand that. However, it is also important to understand that when the right-hand side – including in this room – does not end up with a sufficiently restrictive national legislation relating to dealing with labour market challenges, and for example. rail-related matters undermine the political and cultural legitimacy of the EEA Agreement. It's not going to bear fruit in the future to think that you can just say that the EEA Agreement is good, if you don't take the negative sides into account. Here, too, the Workers' Party has acted for some reasons – I would like to stress that I mean that. We have to shift to a different balance when it comes to this, and I agree with what the other representatives have said: of course we have to try out action spaces in a proper way, and we have to try out the possibility of vetoing when it is necessary. It is not a problem for EEA membership, and it will only give the EEA agreement greater legitimacy and authority to the Norwegian population, and we will avoid the turmoil that we see today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e709	I was not going to speak in this debate, because I was in an EU/EEA debate at the café Christiania from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. today, so I thought I had talked enough about the EU and the EEA. But I think there are some strange comments that have been made in this Chamber today. Maybe it's good that we debate, instead of just reading what others have written. Let me first point out that the Progress Party is a member of the EEA Agreement, and the Government is governed by the EEA Agreement. Let's be clear. The challenge, however, is – as far as the other parties are concerned – that the limitations of the EEA Agreement are difficult to define: What is market-relevant? What are the four freedoms? What are the four freedoms? Where does it end? ACER is one thing that is difficult to assess – is it within, or is it outside? Are we talking about pay terms? Are we talking about tax terms? Are we talking about working conditions? If one nation has better labour rights than another nation, do you have to compromise on a minimum common multiple, or do you have to follow the nation that has reached the highest level and has the best working conditions? That's exactly what's demanding. That is what we are discussing. Then it makes no sense to come up with conspiracy theories, as the representative Kolberg came up with, that the Progress Party has some problems or some kind of desire for nationalism that is a little scary. It's classic shadow argumentation. The Progress Party does not have any obscene intentions, but we do not want the EU to have greater influence than necessary. We want the EEA Agreement to do what is important to make trade work as best as possible under the same conditions. But we don't want it to go beyond that, because we think national self-determination, patriotism, nationality and culture are important. It's identity policy. We defend the nation state. That is why we are strongly opposed to EU membership, but followers of trade, in line with the principles of liberalism. It's not very surprising, and there's no point in making anything more out of it than that. That is also the government's policy. That the Left’s representative, and, to the extent, the Right’s representative, make strong contributions to EU membership – it is of course up to these parties to believe. We have here in this Chamber been dealing with the government's platform and government's policy, and we are defending it. But there are balances between what is strictly necessary in order to have real free trade and conditions, and what is outside free trade and the conditions that apply.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e720	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e725	First of all, thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the presentation and thank you for a debate in the Chamber that I think is fruitful. I take the floor first and foremost as the leader of the Energy and Environment Committee and will return to the Paris Agreement in 2015 and in which window of history it was – Obama was president at the time, and we had an EU that was united and was a driver of a climate agreement for the world. It's been important. In Norway, we are increasingly linked to the EU's work on climate, the environment and energy. That is why this is important to include in the debate. But the environment is changing. Trump's entry into the United States and a stronger focus on Asia, including: against China and North Korea, shifting focus away from our neighbourhoods and efforts in terms of financial contributions to NATO. In Europe, we see that the three big ones – Germany, France and the United Kingdom – are struggling with their own problems. The extent to which the United Kingdom, and especially England, is characterised by the climate-related brexit process remains to be seen. They have done a lot of good, and Theresa May has actually been in Stortinget, in connection with the Nordic Council, saying that they are under their obligations. We have to hope for that. This makes Norway’s relationship with other and smaller countries all the more important for us to do the job needed for climate and environment. We note an increased interest from the Benelux countries in bilateral cooperation, or regional cooperation, and in particular the Nordic countries have the opportunity to take a new position, regardless of whether it is within or outside the EU. We have relatively similar climate and energy targets, we already have great cooperation in the energy sector, and by 2050 we have shared ambitions for low emissions. We work together and are on track in the field of the circular economy and the bioeconomy, also with the Baltic countries and downwards towards the Balkans. And if we look at the other side, Scotland is very interested in cooperation. The Energy and Environment Committee has been a week in California, and we already have a bilateral agreement with California – from 2017 – on climate and environment. And then we look at Washington, Oregon and Vancouver -- a kind of rainbow alliance with bilateral cooperation is important when the situation is like that. In large, established cooperation, Norway is an important future discussion of how to deal with individual countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e737	Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for a very good presentation. We're going into a local election in Norway for the autumn, a local election where the Centre Party will continue to falsify its resistance to the EEA Agreement. I think that also challenges many of the Central Party's own, local representatives. This is because many of these representatives see the importance of access to the European market for their local corner stone enterprises. In any case, it should be clear that, on our side, we need to be clear about what a vote for the Central Party means for the jobs in the district. Exporting fish to Europe requires seamless veterinary cooperation. If industry is to be part of an integrated market, where the goods must be delivered on the same day as, for example, The car has to be fitted, you have to be part of a free market with equal rules. It's my opinion that just opening up alternatives on its own is going on a hugely uncertain line for Norwegian business. For the Biggest, I hope that next week's European Parliament elections will also be a new start for Storting's work towards the European Parliament. The government, with its office, is making a huge, good effort against the Commission and the other countries to promote Norwegian views, but Parliament is built up after a party system where it is the party-political channels that must be used to front our views there.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e747	Although we do a lot of good through the bodies and samples of the Storting today, I believe that the Storting should have even higher ambitions. In my opinion, Norwegian parliamentarians should have the opportunity to travel to Brussels under the same conditions as they travel to Bergen. Then it may be a bit brave to suggest that the representatives of the big business should have more travel bills written, but I believe that travelling to Brussels has a very good reason in itself, and that is something we should do much more often. The European Parliament is an arena we are too bad to use. I believe that we should use it more, at least when we see that major issues in the European Union are now taking place in trialogues, where Parliament's views and positions are given great importance. If we do not promote our views, regardless of party political affiliation, towards our European parties, they do so without us. Here I mean we have more to pick up. If we are serious about exploiting the space of action, we must also fill the space of influence that I believe the European Parliament is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e751	The representative of Ingerd Schou considered that the Senterpartiet has acted contrary to Norway’s interests in the context of trade with the EU. I just want to assure the representative that the Central Party has never said that the EU is acting destructively for Norway. We have never said that the EU acts in such a way that one should put us in a pinch. Why didn't we tell you? Well, it is because it is in the EU’s interest to have a good economic relationship with Norway, not least in the areas of the representative Schou mentioned — raw materials and finished products needed by the EU. That's why the representative's statement about this is not close to what's real. The representative Svein Roald Hansen probably agreed that the EU started as an experiment, but it was extremely successful. What is interesting is that the representative Svein Roald Hansen, who has been the leader of the European movement, cannot take on board the fact that the European movement, which is a member of The European Movement, stands for the establishment of the United States of Europe, namely with a single currency, a common finance department and tax law with regard to persons and businesses. The interesting thing is that no member of the European movement here today wants to tell it – wants to say that someone wants it. But one regrets that the EU system is not able to drive that solution forward. The result is that one sits in a festivities because one wants to go further in the direction of the United States of Europe. You don't get it, but you don't want to give up the project with the single currency. In his statement, the Minister for Foreign Affairs said: ‘However, the EEA Code, in total, is a good for Norwegian work and has also led to strengthened employee rights.’ The centre party has a sharp opposite sense of reality, and I want to ask if the Workers' Party – I see now that there are few representatives left here, but there are probably some – either Anniken Huitfeldt, Espen Barth Eide or Martin Kolberg, agree with this government description, that the EEA agreement has been progressive and positive in order to improve working conditions. It's an important clarification to get. In the end, I would like to draw up a book entitled «Debtors' Prison» by Robert Kuttner, where Jacques Delors is interviewed and referred to on page 125. Jacques Delors says there: I succeeded in establishing a European monetary policy, but not in establishing a European social or economic policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e769	It is a very important reference from Jacques Delors – the comrade of Gro Harlem Brundtland – and was the basis of the EEA agreement in its time.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e772	I noticed that the Council of State in its presentation went so far as to say that the debate on employment creates commitment. It is as far as the Council of State is willing to extend it. But then, as the representative here says, when it comes to the analysis of what the EEA means for Norwegian employment, it is only praiseworthy to pick up. And that despite seeing a situation in the Norwegian labour market where fundamental rights are threatened, where acquired rights are threatened, both through tripartite cooperation and through collective agreements, but also through Norwegian legislation. There is pressure on pay and working conditions for workers in practical occupations in Norway. A unanimous LO Congress has stated on two occasions that in Norway, Norwegian collective bargaining agreements and Norwegian labour law will prevail over EU laws. Well, with the EEA Agreement, the opposite principle is the case. Through specific cases that have been dealt with in Norway — in the Norwegian judicial system and through political processes — one has seen that this is the opposite of the case when cases are put to the fore. One so in the port worker case, and one has seen it over many years in the process of travel, diet and lodging, where even a decision by the Norwegian Supreme Court is not sufficient to maintain a system and a regulation that one has built up in Norway through generations, where the government bends its neck, where the majority in the Tariff subject also bends its neck, and where the conditions for Norwegian workers are put into play. I also think it is a bit striking that in this debate and in the presentation there is almost no trace of, nothing to hear about, what is happening in Iceland regarding the third energy market package of the EU. While one in Norway has taken a long turn and accepted the EU’s third energy market package without taking the initiative of neither a national declaration towards the EU nor a joint declaration with the EU, Icelanders are at least trying to stand up to it. The last new thing from Iceland is that Iceland's LO has marked a clear scepticism for the third energy market package. There is still a big debate in Iceland. There one at least tries to stand up for national interests, while the majority in Norway sees it as their only objective to ensure the fastest possible implementation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e781	It was interesting to hear the Minister of Foreign Affairs’ statement on EU and EEA matters, where climate also received a great deal of attention. In particular, I thought it was interesting to hear the Minister for Foreign Affairs talk about the need for the capture and storage of CO2 and the reference to this in the EU's low-carbon strategy. There is no doubt that the capture and storage of CO2 is essential for achieving the EU’s climate objectives, but not least the international objectives confirmed in the Paris Agreement. This also includes the possibility of converting natural gas into hydrogen, which will appear as an almost emission-free option. In its statement, the Minister of Foreign Affairs stated that the government is working with a focus on closer cooperation between Norway and the EU related to the further development of different technologies for CO2 capture and storage. It's all right, and Norway has come a long way in this area, and this can be part of our green shift, where we can create new jobs and replace jobs from the fossil age into the green future, using new technology and infrastructure. On the other hand, we experience that the government is constantly creating uncertainty about the two full-scale projects that we have on the bed. The purpose of these is not to see if capture and storage is working. The aim is to reduce costs and build an infrastructure from the capture facility to the storage site/deposit area in the North Sea. This is what would be Norway's main contribution to the EU and the global climate goals, while at the same time ensuring the development of a new Norwegian industry where we can take advantage of the expertise we already possess as a leading petroleum nation. The Minister of Foreign Affairs should therefore be a pusher and watchman in his own government to implement precisely these two full-scale facilities in Norway. That would be an important contribution to achieving the objectives of the Foreign Minister himself mentioned in his statement. The Minister of Foreign Affairs did not mention in his statement was the natural method of capture and storage, namely the use of photosynthesis and forest. It belongs to the EU called the LULUCF area, i.e. the use of land and forest resources. The centre party was relatively satisfied with the targets given to the government in place in the forest area and in relation to the reference track. On the other hand, we are concerned when we now receive signals that the European Commission will not approve similar reference roads from Sweden and Finland. Sweden believes that their model is in line with the compromise of the trialogue negotiations, but in retrospect the Commission has thus changed its position and found it unable to approve Sweden’s reference path. The Commission considers that the reference path of the Finns is not transparent enough. The question is what the European Commission thinks about Norway’s reference path, and what the government will do to safeguard it, so that we can continue to make good use of Norwegian forest resources and develop jobs and technologies on them.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e795	The representative Givelsvik made a visit to the discussion we had last year about joining the EU's third energy market package. One could get the impression that Iceland was going to make a national statement, and that Norway was not going to, but that is quite wrong. It is part of that decision and the associated political agreement between five parties, the three then government parties and the Labour Party and the Green Party, that such a declaration should be made in the context of an amended link, which establishes absolutely key principles of public ownership, of national control of foreign tables, of the construction of foreign tables, of the monopoly of the State network and of the revenue from bottlenecks to the country in which they originate. The EU has been briefed on this. In addition, it shall be carried over by connection. So we have a very strong statement, which also points to future changes in EU legislation, which states from the Norwegian side that these are principles that you want to observe even if there are future changes in this legislation. Now we know more than we knew last year about what's going on in the Clean Energy Package, or the Clean Energy Package, and there's nothing that so far indicates that these principles are challenged there. So these are established principles that we're taking with us, so that's just not right at all. Lundtigen was also in the Workers' Party, and I just wanted to say again something like me and Marianne Marthinsen, or several of us, said: The challenges in working life are real, but it is not the law in the EEA that is the problem in this, because Norwegian legislation has either been passed on or strengthened in all, most of the areas, and if something else, one must use the action space, which has been mentioned. What has happened, on the other hand, is that, after getting a more complex workforce, we have not been as good in working life as we should have been, to take care of the rules that we have and that are not challenged by the EEA, but that are challenged by a new composition. That is what we need to learn, and that is why several of us have been concerned that a clear and clear national policy in this area is so important, and that, in addition to its importance, this is also important in order to ensure the conclusion of the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e804	In 2016, the Storting majority decided that Norway should be part of the EU’s financial supervision. The financial audit package was then presented in the EU in 2017 with an in-depth document presented in September 2018. These regulations centralise the power of supervision and provide for more independent and effective supervision. EU agencies are also allowed to expand their involvement in disputes on their own. This package is still for treatment, but it is attached, it is EEA-relevant, and unless one of the EEA countries veto it becomes part of Norwegian regulations and laws. In April last year, Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein sent joint letters to the European Commission critical of proposals to increase EU financial supervision. Special concern is one for the new organisation of EU agencies, where a new executive board is to be set up, which consists only of the Chairperson and a few members on a full-time basis. It is the Council of the European Union that will mention these members. Today, the Norwegian Financial Supervisory Authority is represented in the Management Board of the Agency, even if one does not have the right to vote, and then one loses this representation in the new governing bodies. Obviously, there's reason to worry about it. However, the background to the Commission’s proposal is precisely to define national representation and interests, including from the EU’s own Member States. Instead, a member of the board will have a professional board who can take over the national interests. Is this in Norway's interest? Was this part of the debate when Norway decided that one should be involved in EU financial supervision? No, it wasn't, it wasn't, it wasn't. When EU financial supervision was incorporated into the EEA Agreement, a mechanism was established whereby the ESA monitoring body takes a formal decision, but everyone knows that there is a copy of what has been written by the EU Agency. What would be interesting was to hear what the government and our – almost allies in EFTA have got on the letter to the EU. Will there be a meeting, or is it so that it is now waiting for you to finish what is happening in the EU first? It would also be exciting, when so far lir that this is agreed, to hear if it still is such that the government believes that § 115 of the Constitution is not challenged with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e817	The representative, Barth Eide, is trying to give the impression that the Norwegian side has got the EU on a statement that ensures the so-called indispensable requirements of the National Government of the Workers' Party for the EU's third energy market package. What the Stortinget did on 22 March last year was to consent to a decision of the EEA Committee of May 2017. The EEA Committee Decision does not contain any declarations – no joint declarations with the EU, no declarations from EFTA countries, nor any declaration from Norway. Afterwards, the Labour Party has made some so-called mandatory demands in the Acer case, which was diluted in the agreement with the government parties and which was later sent to the EU for information. So, after a lot of attention, a meeting was held between the Norwegian side and EU officials, expressing Norway’s views — as the government itself has reported in a big message — where it says that the EU took note of its views and took them for information. Of course, this is not an obligation on the part of the EU, much less a formal declaration in the EEA context. Should a declaration in the EEA context have any legal significance, it must, of course, be included in the decision of the EEA Committee when a decision is taken to include legislation there. It's been suggested by the Center Party, and it's going to be exciting to see if the Workers' Party will join it. But regardless of whether you have a statement, it will also be just a snapshot. If, in retrospect, the European Court of Justice comes up with a different interpretation from that contained in the statement, the interpretation of the Court of Justice of the European Union is at the heart of what we have within our legislation to ensure Norwegian energy resources. The Workers' Party is still trying to give the impression that a person has governance in this area, but one cannot even control its own partners and its own partners in this matter, but still more than one year after the agreement was concluded, one has not yet seen any of the changes in the Energy Act, which was one of the requirements of the Workers' Party in terms of public ownership of the foreign tables. Even in this area, it is not possible to get through to those with whom an agreement has been reached, but later on, as if one should be able to provide some guarantees that are relevant to the EU in the future. One has given power to the EU over vital parts of Norwegian energy policy, and the Labour Party must recognise that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e828	Per Olaf Lundtigen has the word twice before and gets the word to a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e833	The representative, Barth Eide, considered that EU legislation in the field of working life was not the problem because the EU had continued or strengthened Norwegian labour market policies. Thus, the Government and Barth Eide have a common understanding that the EEA Agreement has a positive impact on Norwegian working life. It is important that Norwegian trade unions take note of that understanding. The representative Barth Eide goes on to say: the problem is that Norway has a more complex population. My question is, what are we talking about here? The fact that we have people with partial work skills and young people who are struggling to get a job – we have had that before. The fact that we have work immigrants or refugees – we have also had that before. What does the representative mean by this? Is it that one now has a bypass, that one now instead of being an employee becomes a maritime trader? Is that the point? In that case – what has the Labour Party done with that problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e840	I registered that the representative Kolberg was on this platform a little while ago and came up with what was actually similar to a nuance of the Workers' Party's approach to the EEA Agreement – in the sense that I felt for once that it was not unilateral jubilation, but actually also a kind of ability to understand that there is a relationship between the EU and the EEA Agreement that has consequences out there, that touches people's lives, and that is not necessarily seen as positive. Then it becomes a little strange that when I do the same in my post and point to the national as fundamental, the representative Kolberg kind of tried to suspect it. I think that is very interesting, and it is an act you see in the debate that you think is most necessary, namely that you go so far through international agreements, conventions, commitments – it is through the EEA Agreement or other – that you are about to bind your hands and feet. It's seen out there. That's why it's causing reactions, so you get brexit, so you get a choice like what we saw in the United States in 2016, so we see the demonstrations that the yellow vests have in France, and that's why we see the decline of the traditional parties across the European continent. There's a reason for that, and it's that people realize that enough is enough. Most people see that everything that happens on the international arena is not necessarily positive for them. That's why I think it's actually allowed to point out that there are some good things, some positive values we have to remember to take care of and draw out. Yes, it's about a positive nationalism. It's about creating a national identity, a national affiliation, a national community. We will celebrate that in three days’ time – with pride, not with bullets, powder and tanks through the streets, but with children flying the flag of Norway, in a party mood. It's something to be proud of, it's something to take care of. We can't put all the functions and all the policies into the global. We have to take care of our values, and we have to take care of our peculiarity.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e847	I would like to pick up some of the questions that have come, and I should like to be more involved in the further debate, but that does not allow time. As regards the question from the Lysbakken in the reply to the informal Energy Minister's meeting in Bucuresti, the Minister for Oil and Energy has also answered it in writing to the representative Haltbrecken. What the Minister for Oil and Energy writes is that the participating countries were given an opinion which they could choose to sign: ‘The content of the opinion was not subject to discussion or discussion at the ministerial meeting. There was also no proposal to amend the opinion during the meeting. [[...]] The main message of the opinion is that the further development of a well-functioning gas market in Europe is sensible and that the use of Europe’s comprehensive and well-functioning gas infrastructure will also be rational in the long term’ – inter alia. To some of the other issues raised by the Navarsete on Financial Supervision: the latest indications we have there are that the proposal to extend the powers of the Board of Directors will not have the necessary majority among the Member States. The EEA and EFTA States have commented, like many Member States, that they are critical of the extension of powers. So to the issue of ACER and to the extent that both statements and Iceland: the EU was given the opinion that the five batches gave, and no matter how much the centre batch samples, the reality is not what the centre batch gives the impression. The basic elements of Norwegian energy policy are clear. National legislation on concessions to electricity networks, foreign tables and power plants shall continue to apply. And it's completely independent of the business of ACER. Norwegian municipalities, county councils and the state own approx. 90 pst. of the country’s production capacity. We have sovereignty over the disposal of Norwegian energy resources and the design of our energy policy. It is also reflected in the statement that lies between the five lots. I am in a way a little surprised that the representative Geelsvik is asking about what is happening in Iceland, because, as I understand, both the Central Party and No to the EU are currently going to Iceland in shuttle traffic to participate in the discussions on ACER. The Foreign Affairs Committee in Everything therefore voted in favour – against just one vote – of presenting the EU's third energy market package for a second plenary session in Everything, and it is starting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e865	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e881	At the request of the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that up to five lines of response be given to posts by members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e890	With this proposal, the representative of Moxnes wishes to re-examine the Norwegian export control legislation. He wants the government to look at it again and figure out a distinction between Category A and Category B material. The representative also asks the government to intervene and deposit Nammo’s export office in the UAE. The proposals are promoted, as far as I understand, by SV in the Chamber. When proposals come from the left, the ambition has been to reduce every time the opportunities for the Norwegian defence industry to participate in competition on the international defence equipment market. The left has a picture of the global defence industry that matches their other worldview. But at the same time it collides fundamentally, for the countries that, through history, have used the most weapons and power to oppress their own population, are the regimes that the left side has historically embraced. Everyone agrees that when the weapon comes in the wrong hands, these could be used for illegitimate purposes. When national power comes into crooked hands, governmental powers will be empowered to act on behalf of state powers and potentially suppress their own population or to engage in aggression beyond their own borders. In order to obtain weapons countries do not produce themselves, they must be acquired, in whole or in part, from other countries. The sale of weapons across borders requires an export licence. This means that arms exports are determined by the national authorities of the country that have the basic technology and the compilation of the main system. Of course, illicit arms exports are also available, but illicit exports of the most advanced weapons systems are not found. It would be an impossibility. What can happen, however, is that new powerholders take over weapon systems that are already in stockpiles and depots, and that after a while there is the hunt for key spare parts. In 2019, the production of weapon systems is highly complex. Fewer countries are producing whole systems, and weapon systems are usually composed of many subsystems which together form the main system. Such subsystems may be easily identifiable, such as a missile, but even a missile will be composed of components manufactured in several countries. Termination of production and sales will affect a number of subcontractors, often producing smaller components incorporated into subsystems. Sometimes such production takes place under licence. With this as a hindrance, I want to present some basic facts about the defence industry. The defence industry includes, directly or indirectly, close to one hundred enterprises in Norway. Our two leading companies, Kongsberg and Nammo, have 7,000 and 2,000 employees respectively. These translate for more than 12 billion. kr in the field of defence. Even more important for the Norwegian defence industry is the establishment of high technology clusters in Kongsberg and Raufoss, as a number of small businesses. We'll find the same thing in Horten. Kongsberg’s activities, offshore, space and renewables – technologies developed are used naturally enough where they can be useful. If the Norwegian defence industry is affected by the conditions that the Norwegian external left wants, this will naturally also affect the development of all other technologies. Technological development will slow down rapidly, and thousands of technology jobs will disappear. Now I had prepared a lot more, because I thought I had five minutes, but I have three minutes, so I thank myself.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e909	The Granavolden Platform announces a review of the Norwegian Export Control Code for a more accessible regulatory framework, as it is called. That's good. It is also important that this review takes on board some important professional input that has been made regarding the export of military material to the countries intervening in Yemen. In the debate on exports to those who are fighting in Yemen, we are still faced with the same argument – that the 1959 Declaration states that exports to the countries intervening in Yemen are within the regulatory framework. It has been the current interpretation of the legislation. SV has been critical of exports all the way, and now I think it is worth listening to Norway's national human rights institution. They problematize the interpretation of the 1959 Decision in the light of the commitments Norway has entered into through the Arms Trade Treaty. They say, ‘However, such limitations do not comply with Norway’s obligations under ATT Article 7. [[against exports to parties to a civil war supporting legal authorities]] This provision refers to violations of international humanitarian law in general. The whole point of international humanitarian law is that it applies in all wars and conflicts regardless of who has ‘right’. Any export likely to result in a violation of international humanitarian law, including by acts of States invited by one of the parties to a civil war, will fall within the scope of Article 7.» I took the whole quote because it's important. It is important that the Storting remembers this interpretation, and I think we need to base it on our consideration of further questions about export licences. Therefore, it is now high time for us to investigate how the 1959 Decision restriction is consistent with Norway’s international obligations through the ATT. We also believe that the Yemen war makes the distinction between A and B material increasingly unclear. Equipment such as vehicle, aircraft, ship and surveillance equipment is absolutely necessary to carry out the type of blockade that the coalition has put in place and which reports suggest takes many more lives than the actual acts of war. Finally, we are concerned that the creation of Nammo's sales office in the Emirates may be contrary to the intentions of the 1959 Decision and contrary to Article 7 of the ATT and to the EU's arms trading criteria, which say that the State should refuse export licences when there is a likely or obvious risk of material being used for human rights violations or violations of international humanitarian law. Therefore, we also propose that this should be assessed in the notified investigation. I would like to address the suggestions SV has made in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e925	The representative Audun Lighthouse has drawn up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e930	Norway has for a long time had a relatively strict code for the export of military material to the war zone, which was already mentioned in the debate in which the main lines were established in 1959. Then the Storting decided not to allow arms, ammunition or other military goods to be exported to countries where there is civil war, to areas where there is war, or where war threatens. This is also a major uprising today, but it may always be useful to discuss whether or not regulatory adaptations should be made. Over the last ten years, the Stortinget has on several occasions adopted clarifications and further developed legislation in a stronger direction. It has been supported by the Christian People's Party, and we are concerned that we should take new important steps. At the same time as the work on a more restrictive legislation, we have also been concerned that the changes should be well distributed, so that we know the consequences of them. For the Christian People's Party, it was important that the government's political platform, the Granavolden Declaration, state that the government will: ‘Having a strict, clear and stable control framework for the export of all defence equipment with great openness, in line with Norway’s international obligations, and which is robust in the short and long term for Norwegian industry. All assessments of export licences shall focus on respect for fundamental human rights and the risk of abuse in conflict situations or internal repression in the recipient country. Actively work at international arenas to create a common format and norm for end-user documentation and re-port insurance. Please review the Norwegian Export Control Code in order to have a more accessible code.’ [[...]] The Christian People's Party has long worked for stricter guidelines for arms exports and greater openness. It is important that we have a robust regulatory framework, that trade in weapons and military material within the framework of the UN agreement ATT is public, and that there is certainty of transparency through the annual message to the Stortinget. The main changes to the export legislation in this area are in connection with the annual wholesale notifications on Norwegian exports of defence equipment. Finally, I would like to say that the back cover of this Document 8 proposal is not least the humanitarian disaster that the conflict in Yemen leads to. It must not just make us look at the export code for weapons and defence equipment. Norway, together with other countries, must also ensure that weapons are deployed, better access to medical assistance and food and press for a political solution to this conflict.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e951	Norwegian politicians often speak loudly about human rights and democracy in other countries. Then it would be thought that the same politicians would say no to export Norwegian military material to the world's worst Islamic regimes when they are in the midst of a brutal war, which the UN says has triggered the world's worst humanitarian disaster. I am talking about the war against the people of Yemen, where the coalition led by NATO's close allies, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates, kills civilians – children, women and men – in large numbers, both through direct bombing and through an inhuman military blockade that prevents the introduction of food and medicine into a starving population. But unfortunately, it's not that the bulk of the population makes sure to prevent the export of Norwegian military material to such regimes. The 1959 Declaration says that “Norway will not allow the sale of weapons and ammunition to areas where there is war or war, or to countries where there is civil war.” But it is a loophole that is designed that regimes that bomb a country at the invitation of the government of the country are not included in the declaration. In this way these Islamic regimes are supplied with Norwegian munitions of war, and thus receive some kind of support for what, as of today, is perhaps the world's most brutal war against a defenceless civilian population anywhere in the world, here and now. When Red presented our proposal earlier this year, it was because of signals from both the Workers' Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party that suggested that they were willing at least to consider going back to a slightly more decent arms export policy, in line with international law. All we're asking is to close the dirt hole, to reconsider the artificial distinction between so-called A- and B-materials in the code, and to say no to Norwegian-owned arms export offices in warring Islamist regimes. Maybe we're not going through the Great Britain today, but we're going to continue working to stop these kinds of exports, and not least what strengthens the military in regimes that wage destructive and deadly wars against civilians. We note that the rhetoric of those who talk about human rights in all sorts of other cases is, please, not to say violently, weakened when they vote down our proposals, this perpetuates the loophole and at the same time blesses the opening of arms export offices in such regimes. With that, I'll take up Red's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e964	The representative Bears Moxnes has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e969	With reference to the previous article, where the representative Moxnes made himself both tall and dark, which can be said he is also from nature, we have noticed that Red used his national meeting – in addition to confirming his determination for a unicorn society, which he argued figuratively against earlier today – to confirm that they are working for communism. It's actually getting to be a private matter, but it's kind of violent when you accuse others here of double standards. Red also took the time to say that the restrictive measures against Venezuela should be abolished, including the sanctions imposed by the government. In December 2017, the government imposed restrictive measures against Venezuela in response to the negative developments in that country. The penalties were imposed in such a way that exports of equipment, goods and technology which can be used for internal repression and surveillance are illegal. This is what Red thinks should go away, because it bothers the friends in Venezuela. The amendments to the regulation are an addition to the arms embargo to which Norway acceded in November of the same year, which prohibits the export of arms and military equipment to the country in difficulty. As stated in the Government's press release, these measures send: ‘a clear signal to the Venezuelan authorities to reverse the very worrying development of the country. The Venezuelan Government must immediately seek a political solution to the current crisis and ensure respect for fundamental human rights.» This is not Red's official policy. Red wants these sanctions to be lifted, and no reservations have been made, just the usual criticism of Norwegian foreign management. Then it may be that one should pass by Red in all silence, because it is a sect and not a party. Then I just get to say that when you still blow yourself up on this pulpit and turn yourself into a moral judge over co-representatives and over the government, you have to bear to hear that the short-term memory is not quite right. It is not long since the national meeting ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e981	Since it's only three minutes speaking time, I'm going to skip some things I wanted to say, and rather go straight to what's the three proposals in the representative proposal. In line with the 1959 Stortinget Decision, Norway does not allow exports of military or multi-use goods for military use to areas where there is war or war or to countries where there is civil war. The practice is that States which intervene, with the consent of the legal authorities of a country, are not considered to be subject to the 1959 Decision. The 1959 decision and the limitation on exports to so-called intervention states do not mean that we can allow exports for use in a civil war. In contrast, the demarcation implies that exports to intervening States for their own legitimate defence purposes are not automatically affected by the 1959 Decision. Exports may be authorised following a thorough assessment based on the guidelines. The written recording of the implementation of the ATT by NIM will be discussed in greater detail in the context of the export control notification submitted in June. However, I would like to take the opportunity to clarify that the recording can be read as if the U.D. practice of the 1959 Decision did not comply with Norway’s ATT obligations, but that is not correct. The government agrees with NIM's clarification that ATT applies to all wars and conflicts, and this is also how ATT is practiced. The Government considers itself bound by both the 1959 Decision and the ATT as a separate ground for refusal. Norway is initially in a completely different position from many other Western countries as we have never allowed arms or ammunition to be exported to Saudi Arabia. An individual assessment has shown that the export of other military goods, known as B-material, has been authorised in the past. So the Storting and the Committee are well aware of both the suspension of licenses and the fact that we do not take new B licenses under consideration. This applies only to the United Arab Emirates in December 2017 and in November 2018 to Saudi Arabia. With regard to the distinction between A and B material, I would like to stress that all applications for export of defence material to countries outside our very nearest circle, regardless of whether it is A or B material, are thoroughly individually assessed in line with the guidelines. If there is considered to be an unacceptable risk of diversion to undesired military use or violation of international law, no licence will be granted. This practice applies to all defence equipment regardless of whether it is A or B material. With regard to the proposal to come back to Stortinget with an assessment of Nammos's establishment of sales offices in the United Arab Emirates, I also show in my reply to the Committee the division of roles between the owner and the board and the administration resulting from company law and from the state's principles of good ownership. Operational business relationships, such as where companies are present, are a relationship with the company's board of directors and administration. It is the state that has this as part of its ownership dialogue with Nammo.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e998	The following speakers also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e1004	I want to follow up a little more, because think if the world had been as simple as the Moxnes is moving in! Then it would have been black and white – everything is clear, everything is clear, nothing has consequences, and everything should follow the conscience of the Moxnes or Red. If you were to imagine how the defence industry would work if Red had the opportunity, that is, Kongsberg would have lost hundreds of jobs. It's obvious. Kongsberg's technology, which today focuses on defence, has had infectious effects in very many other areas in which the representative Moxnes is very pleased, such as the renewable area, which is today a growing area. This is because Kongsberg has acquired technology from the defence industry that is now shifting to other technologies, for example, also in space. It does it through the defense industry. These are interconnected, there's an interaction between something. You can't isolate one part of Kongsberg. The same is true of Nammo. The representative of Moxnes should learn a little about the defence industry and how export actually works. If you have a component that goes into a larger system that, for example, is produced in the United States, for example. F-35, it is the US export code that applies. But we don't have to deliver a component to that F-35 if we don't want to. But then we don't get that component delivered to a country that Moxnes likes. There aren't many, but anyway. It will be that if we are on a project, we are on a project, and then the export code is where the main system is produced. Of course, Americans will not be hindered by the production of a component in Norway to determine the US export codes for which F-35 can be sold. It's not hard to understand. You can dislike F-35, you can dislike the United States, you can dislike imperialism, you can dislike capitalism, you can dislike anything strange, but if you have to have a production of advanced defense technology in Norway, you have to be in the game. If you don't want to be in the game, you're going to have to think of something else to do. The representative of Moxnes will not be involved in oil and gas development either, so what's going to happen to Kongsberg and all the other related companies, you can wonder about that. What are we going to live on? There is a question that Red probably did not ask himself at the weekend – except for all the prohibitions and injunctions that the party adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e1011	It is strange to discuss the export of Norwegian military material to Islamic regimes that wage wars that daily kill innocent civilians, women and children, when the answer from the Progress Party and the Right is to talk about Venezuela. It's a bit strange and a bit of an easy attempt to talk away from what's the matter, which should be easy to understand for experienced big business representatives like Tybring-Gjedde and Tetzschner. What we're talking about is whether to ensure that no Norwegian military material can be used by these Islamic regimes – which one would at least think the Progress Party was opposed – to the brutal, destructive and killing warfare against the civilians in Yemen, and close the loopholes that exist, which are now exploited and used, to ensure that we do not experience that Norwegian military material, it is A or B material, can be used and sold to these regimes. Nor have we heard anything from the representatives about what they think about the opening of Norwegian arms export offices in these Islamic regimes, which participate in the coalition that is warring in Yemen. It can be noted in brackets that Red is generally very often opposed to sanctions affecting the civilian population. When Jeffrey Sachs points out that about 40,000 people have lost their lives as a result of the sanctions against Venezuela, we are against that kind of punishment since they bring death and destruction to civilians. While we are against it, we are against Norway exporting military material to regimes that kill civilians in a most brutal way. It should also be possible for the Progress Party and the Right to take over without meddling in all sorts of other issues concerning Norwegian oil and gas industry and sustainability in the Norwegian economy, in a discussion that is just about the arms export regulation. I would like to discuss with the Progress Party at any time whether we need a state-owned industrial effort in new industries – ensuring export revenue, technology development, competence and jobs for the future. There can be very much done that the market will not make sure that it is done, which the state should go in and be the engine for. We're for that, and we're also using the oil fund for that. But there is a slightly different discussion than the question of the proposal that I submitted, and I wish we could get the discussion to deal with it more.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e1020	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e1036	At the request of the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that up to five rows of replies be given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e1045	This matter mainly concerns technical amendments and adaptations to other legislation resulting from a new safety law. Since there are essentially technical changes, I have to be brief. The proposal has been the subject of an ordinary hearing. The entry into force of new safety laws makes it necessary to amend other laws, including: to ensure that references to the Security Act are correct. Examples of these are the law on police authorities in the defense, the echo code, the penal code, the law on marks and some others. New safety laws incorporate a new systematic approach compared to the previous law of 1998. This new system requires each department to re-examine its social sector in order to precisely identify basic national functions, as well as information systems, infrastructure and objects of such importance as to be subject to the Safety Act. All the departments concerned have started this survey.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e1054	Work on updating safety legislation to meet today’s and tomorrow’s safety challenges is very important and has been given high priority by the government. New safety regulations came into force on 1 January of this year. The law provides a comprehensive preventive safety regime that appropriately balances differences and partly conflicting considerations. This is a good and timely tool to safeguard our fundamental national security interests. I am pleased that today there is a unanimous committee vote, and that the Stortinget is invited to make the proposed amendments to other laws resulting from the entry into force of the new Security Act. The proposed changes are essentially editorial in nature and therefore do not entail any material changes. This is the preliminary cornerstone of the major and important work to put in place a new and timely safety legislation — a brand day. However, we must be clear that there is a comprehensive new legislation that has now been adopted and that must provide us with sound security in a number of areas. As we make use of the regulatory experience, adjustments may prove necessary. With regard to the briefing on the transitional provisions from old to new security laws, I see it as important to communicate to Stortinget how this is now handled by the government. In this context, it is particularly important to establish that reasonable time has been given to each department to identify the scope of the law in its own sector. However, I would like to stress that the work on such monitoring has been given a high priority, and that the work is well under way. New establishments that will be subject to the Security Act will also be granted a reasonable period of time to comply with the requirements of the Security Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e1069	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e1085	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that up to six rows of replies be given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note. Then your first speaker, Kristin Örmen Johnsen, speaks for the cause. It does not appear to be in the hall. Then we let go of others on the list of speakers. I give the word to Grunde Almeland.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e1096	I expect the rest of the committee to prepare such good speeches that it has just taken a little bit of time to prepare. Norway has received its first 15-year cultural announcement. As the Minister of Culture says, we've stretched a sky over Culture-Norway, lifted our eyes and pointed out a direction forward. This is a message that gives power back to people, to those who create and participate in the culture where it takes place. The message does not contain instructions at micro-level, no information from the Minister on what is best, and on how to get that out. No, the message is that culture is local, that it should be found everywhere, for everyone, in all sorts of variants. There isn't one fasitite. Our task is to facilitate diversity, accessibility and quality. The Minister of Culture states that art and culture are opinions with a societal capacity, and that a rich and varied cultural life is a prerequisite for freedom of expression and a well-functioning democracy. Unfortunately, there is no such thing as self-evident today. Democracy is under pressure from several sides, freedom of expression in constant debate. The art provokes. It is the task, but also the challenge, for art must be allowed to live and unfold on its own terms, without over-control. It only works when it's free. Only then can the mirror image of our time be true and the reflections and criticism real and relevant. We must have this freedom, the uncompromising and the boundless, but also the inclusive culture. Creating, participating in and experiencing culture provides new perspectives and promotes understanding and understanding of values, identity and society. The more inclusive the culture is, the more democracy. Not all of the exteriors are best expressed in chronic form. There are many ways to set the agenda. Some have to dance their experiences, others have to paint them, or create a world of computer games that says something about how they see the world, or how it should be. Art and culture have no fascination. There's room for everyone, not just for one. It gathers us. Therefore, I appreciate the government's aim to offer meeting places and to build communities. It underlines that the culture should be accessible to all and that the offer should be relevant and representative of the population. It cannot then be steered from the top by a message every 15 years. We have to facilitate the living cultural life of the municipalities and regions where people live. What is relevant will vary from place to place and from time to time. At the same time, it is important that the quality of cultural services does not depend on where people live. The fact that art is free and independent doesn't mean that everything has equal value. I believe that the government takes people and artists seriously when they say that it is a cultural policy goal to create artistic and cultural expressions of the highest quality. Appreciating the public conversation, the art critique and the professional environments is about appreciating what is good, and having ambitions for the rest. We're not just going to demand quality from the big ones. Most of the culture is consumed locally. Children and young people should learn both to be an audience and to have their interests and skills tested in different artistic and cultural expressions. I want us to have as high ambitions for the culture we serve them, as what we offer to adults, because these are the ones that are going to take over and lift us up. It's these people who are going to be molded, and in turn shape society in a few years' time. If we really believe that art and culture are a supporter of our democracy, we are served to serve our children the very best, let them get the experiences that sit long in, that inspire, that engage. I look forward to a fine debate on this cultural message.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e1123	That is all the reason, because now the committee is well placed in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e1128	Sometimes debates go a little faster than you can run. I am proud that we are dealing with this cultural message in Stortinget, 16 years ago, and the committee is pleased that it has been presented: the power of culture – cultural policy for the future. Culture in its broadest sense is expressions, whether they are digital as in movies, printed as in books, dance in ballet or acting, drama transmitted on a stage in theatre or culture houses and music in all its forms. Opinions are under pressure in Europe and elsewhere in the world. Authorities in countries not so far away from us set limits on what can be written and what can be set up by plays. It is therefore important that we agree on a cultural policy objective: to have a free and independent cultural life. The Committee agrees that culture should promote education, democracy and reflection, it should be available, it should be built on a community basis, and we should preserve and disseminate our cultural heritage. We may disagree on instruments, but we agree that culture should be developed on its own premises and without state control. The Culture Communication will be followed up by a number of key messages in several fields, including: an artist’s own message, children’s and youth culture message, museum message, language message, a national library strategy, and not least we get a big message about cultural memories in 2020. This is a visionary cultural message, as it discusses new ways of creating and disseminating culture, and will make culture more relevant to new target groups. I'm talking about digitization. In the NRK today we heard that young people no longer use museums because young people will be involved, they will experience culture in new ways, and I'm glad that the government will support environments that use new technology in their art and convey art through technology. The government parties consider it essential that individuals, businesses and civil society foundations see the value of art and culture in society and see a value in financial engagement. The gift-enhancing system has been discussed, not everyone agrees. But we believe it is an important instrument as an additional source of funding for culture, and not least to encourage institutions and organisations to seek private funding. And they get a little bonus for that from the state. They are left for the work of obtaining private funds. There can be no doubt that the bottom plan for funding culture is the state – and will be the state. Much of the discussion about task transfer from the state to the new regions in the cultural field has marked the debate on the communication of culture. The Committee believes that remittances from the state to the county councils should be culturally justified and contribute to the achievement of national cultural policy objectives – and I stress cultural policy justification. Government parties will stress that it is important that county councils receive real task transfers, not just increased financial liability. We also believe it is important to define criteria in this process, such as quality, relevance and international recognition for the institutions where appropriate. We also believe that institutions which will remain national and which would not be relevant to transfer to the regions should have a good regional anchoring. Government parties stress that national cultural institutions may also be located elsewhere than in the capital. This process is of great interest to the committee, and we have signaled in our attitude that we will follow closely, and that the committee would like to have this proposition back. The Minister of Culture is also asked to provide an en route report to provide information on the process of division of tasks and responsibilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e1151	Culture is both disconnection and coupling. It's something you can enjoy at leisure – lying on the couch watching a good movie, relaxing – but it's also one of the most important things we have in our society that connects us to, that allows us to see things with new eyes, think thoughts we haven't thought before. Culture and art bring us within new issues that we may not have had access to without them. So culture is what gives our lives content. It is involved in breaking down barriers between us, and it creates new and stronger communities. Cultural policy shall facilitate everyone to experience good art and culture, urban and rural, regardless of who you are, and regardless of the size of your wallet. A lot of people don't get it today. We know that the class divisions in culture are still large. The diversity must therefore be increased both on stage, in productions and among the audience. The cultural systems that strike everyone, including those that would not otherwise have been involved for different reasons, need to be strengthened, and we need to have more of them. We have to do more for those who work to give us art and culture. Still, a lot of artists and cultural workers are of those who are lua in the hands of a life of work that is not decent. The artistic economy needs to be strengthened. The reform that the opposition – with current government parties the Christian People's Party and the Left – launched in 2014 must be continued. Cultural institutions need to be given a boost so that more jobs and better production can be developed. Copyrights need to be strengthened, and foreign actors that are streaming content on the Norwegian market must contribute to the creation of new Norwegian content. Then you can't stand with your hat in your hand. It's not often I can say that I agree with almost everything the previous two speakers said, even though the two came from the Left and Right parties, but that's also a little bit of what characterizes the message of culture. It's full of great visions and great words that it's hard to disagree with. But it has not been said that the lines of cultural policy do not exist – on the contrary. The attitude we're dealing with today is extremely clear on where the right-hand side and the left-hand side separate layers, and it's just about that. Of course, in our comments, we're also clear on the self-esteem of culture, of course, we're behind the overall goals that are so obvious that they almost become banal, but where we separate layers, what we want to do about it, what we need to do to concretely and achieve the goals that we all agree on. Where the right-hand side says that you have to specify later, and that we have to wait for even more messages before we can say anything about what we want to do, the Labour Party and the rest of the opposition have concrete proposals here today. Visions and objectives of cultural policy and beautiful words in a message are fine, but cultural life cannot live by big messages. More people are not allowed to read grotesque messages, and there will be no more provocative art of debates on staging messages, like the one we have today. It has to be followed up. In my opinion, there is one interesting chapter in this cultural message, which is crucial, and that is the chapter where it says that all these beautiful visions and promises are to be implemented within the current economic framework. It's also said that it's going to be tighter in the future, and we know what that means -- we've had six years with right-wing government: stamina and cut in the cultural budgets. We want to move on. We will raise culture and give it the attention it deserves, in politics and in the state budget, in order to achieve our objectives. When the Workers' Party ruled the last time, culture went through a historic boost. From 2005 to 2013, we doubled the budget. We strengthened the cultural infrastructure and the large institutions throughout the country. We introduced cultural school hours for all children. We've been betting on practice rooms, choirs and corps. Free arrangements such as the cultural walking stick and the cultural school bag were put in place to ensure that everyone is allowed to participate. We're going to keep going that way. I am pleased that the outcome of the cultural message we are discussing today, which at the previous announcement 15 years ago, is once again that the opposition – the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV – gathers and shows that we are listening to cultural life, we are prioritizing culture, and we are concrete on what we want to do. We need – and we promise – a new cultural promise. I'm going to deal with the proposals. 1-3 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e1174	The representative Anette Trettebergstien has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e1179	Let me first thank the Committee for its good work on the matter. It is also appropriate to thank the Council of State for presenting a good and readable cultural message. For treatment today, there is something as unusual as a cultural message that is far more than a loop report and a status update. It's not just a description of everything that moves in public-funded cultural life, but rather an invitation to a discussion of both what, why and how, and I call it a fresh breath. Let me start by saying a few words about the Progress Party and our approach to discussing the cultural message. Because, most often, the Progress Party is considered to be different when it comes to cultural policy. It actually seems to me to be one of our forces. We're not afraid to be the little boy who points out that the emperor goes without clothes. We are not afraid to say when unreasonable demands for funding come. In fact, anyone claiming to be an artist or a cultural worker is not entitled to be financed by taxpayers. We also have as a party the voters who are most aware of what they don't like about cultural policy. I see that as a force. They're not afraid to tell us what they don't want public dollars to be used for. Fortunately, the Progress Party is now in government, and therefore our perspective has been included in the message. Our views are quite well covered in the common bourgeois good of thought in the communication we have to deal with here today. Let me mention the general objective of cultural policy. For us, most of the points are completely obvious, but I want to highlight two: First, it is essential for us to take care of and disseminate our cultural heritage. No one other than the Nordics is going to take care of the Norwegian cultural heritage. We all need to know who we are as people and where we as nations come from. Without it – as the emperor in the adventure – we stand naked in our encounter with the world. The second objective I want to highlight is to create and disseminate a cultural offer that is perceived as relevant and represents the population. In particular, note the last sentence: ‘representing the population’. It doesn't say here that the cultural offer should represent what someone thinks is right or good culture. It says "representing the population," and in my world, it means that we're going to give people what they want. No one should be pushed on so-called high-ranking art if they really want anything else. I would also like to point out that in no way is the country's culture adopted in this Chamber, and it is fortunately not that the public budget determines everything that people are going to experience from culture. In fact, most of people’s cultural consumption comes from totally or partly commercial sources. The Nordics are probably well placed at the top of the world in their consumption of cultural experiences, and that's exactly what we're going to be very happy about. The Progress Party has been fighting every year for individual to choose their own cultural offerings. Where other parties fought for the NRK monopoly, we wanted diversity. Where other parties are fighting for more state aid to culture, we want to deregulate. Where other parties will provide support for increasingly foreign cultural expressions, we want to secure and continue to disseminate the cultural heritage. The Minister of Culture comes from a liberal party, from a party on the non-socialist side. Both parts are well noted in the cultural message, and fortunately the message shows that the Council of State has great faith that culture is viable on its own. In conclusion, culture should not be a way for politicians to raise the people. Our task is only to facilitate the people's self-determination of their culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e1207	When the Left took over the rudder in the Ministry of Culture, there were simply many who breathed lightly. Finally, we get a Minister of Culture who actually cares about culture, was surrounded. For the left, until they entered the government, had been able to limit the extent of damage to the blue-blue cut in support of culture. It was therefore a collective cultural life that naturally looked forward to the Minister of Culture coming with his new cultural message. They wondered if the minister would finally spare the culture for the tough efficiency cuts, which are about to make it extremely difficult for them. They wondered if it was finally going to be properly invested in art and culture economically, and they wondered what tasks would be proposed to be transferred from the state to the new regions where the minister is involved – it was announced that it would be in the communication. Well – there were not so few who were disappointed when the message finally came. Because even though it had fluttered up with descriptions and considerations of the important value of culture for society, and goals, which are something they all, most of us can of course stand behind, it wasn't so many concrete answers to get on important questions for those who work daily to ensure the very value of culture. No tasks were proposed to move from country to region in the message. And no strengthening of the cultural budget or restrictions on efficiency cuts was presented. The first thing we think in the Center Party is okay, even though we are dedicated to task transfers to the regions in most areas. However, there must be more thorough cultural policy decisions behind such a major change, we believe. But the last – that there will be no strengthening in the cultural budget – is not okay. It is, of course, that more money is needed for culture if we are to strengthen it as a society, and if more than now are to experience participating in art and culture throughout the country. Saying something else is, with respect to reporting, nonsense. As if there is no money there is missing, but ideas, an argument I heard from the Minister of Culture tried to defend that she obviously does not get her government associates to give the field for which she is responsible, more weight – money! As if there is no money that is needed for artists to have a decent economy, or that there is no money that is needed for voluntary and professional organizers across the country with tight budgets to receive the support they need for it to go around! At the hearing on the cultural message, there was also a wealth of information about areas that were not well maintained in the message – areas that really need more money, such as the artist economy, the cultural school bag, the cultural walking stick, the cultural carrier, the music equipment system, Norwegian Arts Abroad and Music Norway, small and large festivals and other events and events around the country, the actor and dance alliance, various art and cultural institutions around, cultural memories, film betting and reading campaigns – just to mention something. But none of these arrangements or actors were told in the notification that they should be strengthened. In fact, the word ‘strength’ occurred only three times in the message and the word ‘strength’ zero times. In fact, the cultural message ended rather with the opposite. It said that both what was mentioned in the communication and the measures under it should actually be done within the current framework. So there will be no new or more money – no strength, rather on the contrary. To put it that way with the words of one of the hearing bodies – Norwegian concert organisers: ‘It does little to help 93 uplifting aspects of the crucial importance of art and culture for our society, when it is stated on page 94 that the government will not spend more money on art and culture.’ Well, that's what we want in the Center Party. We want to spend more money on art and culture, which we proved we would and could in the red-green government, when we introduced the cultural promises from 2005 and in 2014 we used 1 pst. of the State budget on culture. Now, in the same party constellation, we want to complete the work we have not completed in government due to an unfortunate change in government, namely the work on the next important cultural promise – the local cultural promise, the cultural promise of the local base wall, and the fulfilling recommendation made in the Enger Committee on how to strengthen culture in the future, to which the government has chosen not to listen. With our clear, pronounced economic 1 percentage point – a clear political commitment – we will also be able to contribute with our cultural policy to the strengthening of all the other parts of art and culture. It deserves it. For we, we are serious when we establish that culture is a very important value to our society, so important that it must be given the right priority – with increased budget lines.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e1231	Will the representative address the proposal of the Central Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e1237	I will.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e1242	The representative of Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen has then taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e1247	Art and culture give our lives both content and meaning, because in addition to having something to live from, we need something to live for. That's why art and culture are a fundamental good, a good with a self-esteem that we can't put a price tag on. But art and culture are also free expressions that make for breaking in society, that challenge us, contribute to debates and tell stories. The main objectives of cultural policy for us in SV are, therefore, firstly to facilitate the quality, diversity and breadth of various offers and expressions, secondly to defend and guarantee art and culture freedom – freedom from arbitrary interference by both political and economic power – and, thirdly, to ensure that everyone, regardless of wallet, background and address, experiences and participates in a rich and varied cultural life, that art and culture are accessible to the many, and that diversity is represented in cultural life. When I grew up in Sarpsborg, it was because of free low-threshold offers that the community arranged for me and my comrades to have a concert, see a play and talk to a writer, through the cultural school bag. Without that offer, I am absolutely sure that many of my classmates could go through an entire school run at primary school without those experiences. That's why the democratic cultural policy, which makes the many, and not just the few, experience and participate in art and culture, is so important. The cultural message we are discussing today also says a lot about similar goals, with fine wording. It is important to draw a sky over cultural policy, it is necessary, but if there is no earth under heaven, then it becomes quite airy. And the cultural message is in many ways a celebration that lacks concrete action. Not least, the last chapter of the celebration is quite revealing. The title of the chapter is ‘economic and administrative implications’. The chapter is short, and it says: none. Good wording on the societal building force of culture is fine, but it does little to help in a budgetary conference. It doesn't pay any schoolteachers, and you don't get to buy any books from our libraries. The government will not prioritise more money for cultural life. No – in the evening post even the Minister of Culture says that this is a bad idea. So on the contrary, this message alerts less money from the community in the future, and that cultural life must make itself more dependent on private sponsorship. Private contributions are good, but combined with less funding from the community, there is a shift in power – a shift from peer evaluation to private taste, a shift away from democratic cultural policy to provide a rich and varied offer for all, to market interests and commercial considerations. The question is, what kind of art is being funded? And at least, what isn't funded? The gift-enhancing scheme is the government’s great ideological achievement example of that development, and from the introduction of the scheme in 2014, half of the funds have gone to 20 major actors. Last year, Oslo and Hordaland received 20 and 26 million respectively. kr, while Eastfold and Sogn and Fjordane got a few hundred thousand. Rather, SV wants the community to prioritise more money for art and culture, because even if we cannot put a price tag on art and the importance of culture, we must appreciate it. So we're going to use 1 pst. of the State budget for cultural purposes, so that we can have an even richer and more varied cultural life, which reaches even more, regardless of the wallet and address. Instead of the State negotiating its responsibility for the financing of theatres and orchestras, rather than breaking up national cultural policies, we will build up cultural life locally and regionally, for example. three actions, such as proposing regional cultural funds, strengthening cultural law and not least building the cultural base wall. We want a national lift for the libraries, lower the threshold for participating in the cultural school, bet on the freedom of culture through the means, to corps, amateur theaters and practice rooms instead of the gift-enhancing scheme, right to leisure clubs, to mention something. That's how we can create a rich and varied cultural life for the many, regardless of economics, background and address.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e1266	The power of culture – Culture policy for the future is a comprehensive and ideological document for which the Minister of Culture has reaped much praise in Culture-Norway. I believe that one of the most important things we in the Committee discussed in this Communication is the considerable emphasis that the Minister of Culture has placed on freedom of expression. Culture of freedom of expression must be cultivated not only for journalists, authors and bloggers, but also in other arts, such as music, film, dance, performance, etc. Freedom of expression is a prerequisite for a well-functioning democracy and its right is important to ensure a cultural policy for the future. The ability to share our thoughts and accept others, the ability to share an art expression and accept others', or the ability – if one likes – to share slurry so that it slows down, without having to censor, is what makes us able to evolve as human beings. Freedom of expression is absolutely necessary for man's search for truth, and only by such free exchanges can we get closer to the truth. Thinking differently has its price, and that's exactly why it's important that we tell you in this message that it has a value in the power of culture. Meaningful conversations about right and wrong across what is considered to be politically correct are one of the best things in our democracy. I am pleased that we can present a big message that has been able to fulfill the important role of art and culture as a building force for society, and I am pleased that a cultural policy for the future will be based on freedom of expression and tolerance. It is not so often that a cultural message is presented in Norwegian policy, and the transfer of cultural tasks from the state to the regions is a task we take seriously. The regional reform plan on the transfer of state cultural tasks to the counties makes it clear to many that important cultural institutions could risk losing their state funding. We have taken that seriously in the government parties in the committee. So to those of you who are still concerned, an overall committee is concerned about how this process is going to work. We believe that the Minister of Culture must come back to Stortinget with reports on how the transfer is to be carried out, thus supporting the Minister of Culture to initiate this process, but adding that the Stortinget must be involved in dealing with the organisation and sharing of responsibilities. We have pointed to criteria such as quality, relevance, international recognition and good regional anchoring as important points of reference for the Minister of Culture in the next phase. We believe that we will be in and secure the cultural institutions a good process and the Storting the influence we need in this important phase. My name is on this message. I believe that we have actually managed to achieve a balanced art here: we protect our important cultural heritage while at the same time creating a cultural policy for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e1283	I have been looking forward to this day – to the opportunity to discuss, both overall and in principle, the position of cultural policy in both Norwegian politics and Norwegian society for the first time in 16 years. What the government has tried with this message is to underline the importance of cultural policy for a well-functioning democratic society. Our approach is a fundamental debate, and I have to say that I am actually a little disappointed that the opposition has neither new principles nor new ideas, and that we are trying to turn the disagreement into a minimalised budget debate. I'll still try to lift my eyes a little. Art and culture are expressions of community-building power. Cultural policy must be based on freedom of expression and tolerance. Cultural life and civil society are prerequisites for formation and an informed public, and therefore also an investment in democracy. That is the basis for this message. Our objective is not the pure function or role of culture for society, but that culture is actually the driving force behind social development and public debate. We're going to come up with both government budgets and communications, and I think the cultural message is probably trying to raise the ideological difference here and not turn it into a budget debate. The role of culture in a society is much more than money. But as long as the Left has been in the budget for the last few years, we've increased it by 3.6 billion. kr. The budget is now 1.1 pst. by the State budget. We've increased the artist tips, we've improved the artistic economy. Yes, no later than today we are making changes to the sickness pay scheme, as I see the artists are very happy that we are getting implemented. And when it's said that the music equipment system hasn't been put on, we have an increase of 28 million. kr last year to 45 mill. kr in year. It's a pretty unreasonable attack from the Center Party. The most fascinating thing is that when you turn culture into just money, the answer is that you're going back to the old idea you had 10-15 years ago, about 1 pst. We'll overfill it. But neither does it take into account what caused the Enger Committee to slaughter that reform, namely that there were no more users – there were no more who were reached. It was only for the institutions that they increased – one could not increase cultural production, and it was the large institutions that used to, while the foundation wall of Norwegian culture, the foundation of Norwegian artists, actually lost. And the only thing you can figure out here is that we see that you want 1.5 billion. less to culture by scrapping the gift-enhancement scheme, and that there is a huge gap between an SV that will govern the municipalities and have more precise restrictions on who will be allowed to govern the culture, and a Center Party that will put down the Council of Culture and delegate it to the counties. I believe that we need to talk a lot more about the major debates we are facing, for example. the debate that the NRK has promised today that we have young people who will not use our museums. That's the solution we have to find, and then we have to find the driving forces that lie in culture, in order to reach new groups. In the Ministry of Culture, we are now working on several new messages and strategies, just to address those issues. We work with an artist message, we work with a language message, we work with a strategy for library, stage art and computer games. I cooperate with the Minister of Knowledge on a comprehensive communication of children and youth culture. I'm working with the Minister of Industry on a strategy for culture and business, and I'm about to start work, together with the Minister of Foreign Affairs, with an international strategy for cultural policy, as announced in the Culture Communication. In addition, the Minister for Climate and Environment is working on a new cultural memory message, which is probably also a danger that I will have opinions about. Let me just briefly comment on suggestions that are available. You don't agree with gift enhancement – you want the 1.5 billion. kr to culture or not? Proposal No. 2 is a little strange, as that investigation is available. You can go to government.no/Cultural Notice – there is a 130-page report where this is investigated.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e1304	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e1309	I think the Minister of Culture has to read the setting one more time, because where the right side and the left side, the opposition, separates layers, it's just that we're the opposition that goes from talking to practice. We all agree on all the general and fine words about the importance of culture. It's not controversial; it's almost banal. But then it's about what concrete action we're going to take to build up the class divisions that exist in culture, what action we're going to take to create more provocative art, and what action we're going to take to improve the working conditions of artists. That's where the opposition has the concrete grips. And the state council is wrong: 1 pst. of the State budget for culture is not an objective in itself; it is only an instrument to achieve this. Then I wonder – because I am a little in doubt after hearing the Council of State today and on previous occasions: is it so that the Minister of Culture wants a larger budget for culture?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e1316	I must first comment that there is no new grip here. I can give credit to SV, who comes with the grip that they want to direct the municipalities more, or to the Center Party, who wants to shut down culture, and that's to delegate the decisions more. There's a pretty big gap between the two ways of cultural policy, and I'm going to challenge the Workers' Party on how they're going to be able to rule within it in the world. I want more money for culture. That's why I have a total of 3.6 billion. kr in the last few years. We're also going to be able to raise it. We are doing so in the revised national budget – now the cultural budget is increasing by 150 million. kr – while doing many other important cultural activities, such as: what we do for marine operators when they get increased social rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e1323	Now the Council of State spent its five-minute contribution explaining that she felt it was a pity that culture should be about more money, and that this is not important, while she now stands and boasts that her role within the government is to give culture more money. That's kind of weird. I think it's about the fact that the Council of State, like all of us and as cultural life itself, also understands the simple thing that you can't live by beautiful words in big messages. It doesn't matter that politicians say that art should be provocative, or that class divisions for participation should be built down, if you don't have the money to follow it up. More money is needed for the cultural budget, because after six years of right-wing government, the share of the cultural budget in the state budget has fallen. Most people have had a big cut. If the council then thinks she's proud that she's got a slight increase this year and wants a bigger cultural budget, why isn't it a good idea to just say that 1 pst. of the state budget to go to culture, because then we get an annual growth?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e1330	1.1 pst. is now moving to the cultural budget. We've had an increase that's greater than what the opposition says they're going to have, that's 3.6 billion. kr. My challenge to the opposition: it's no idea; it's just a desire for more money. It's not an idea of how to use them, how to make sure that we get the changes we want in Culture-Norway in the future. I had hoped that this message would invite to a kind of disagreement where we could look at the principle view of culture, where we could debate it, but there are no new ideas, and there is no new grip, except that SV will rule more, the centre party will rule less.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e1337	I think at first I have to make it clear that the Center Party will not put down the Cultural Council; we want to keep what you need to keep in the Cultural Council, and that may well be it is very much. Then I have to point to the level of precision here when I'm accused of the Central Party saying that the government is not betting on the music equipment system. No, that's not what I said; I said that during the hearing it was claimed that the music equipment system, along with a lot of other things, was not well maintained in the message. Then the government and the government have come after and distributed tipping agents to the music equipment system, tipping agents that are our common sum that we're going to spread all over the country. The redistribution is good for this government, but not to bring new money. Another part of the tipping agent, which now goes to a few concretely, is the gift enhancement scheme. It's strengthened by $70 million. kr. Is that so to understand – even though there has been a lot of criticism of it, among other things. that there is a lot of bias both geographically and in view of who is going to get it – that the government is very pleased with how the gift-enhancing system has turned off?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e1347	I did not understand the reasoning about the music equipment system, so unfortunately I cannot answer that. The reasoning about the gift enhancement system is very simple: this has created 1.5 billion. kr more for culture. I'm for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e1352	The minister is for the private ones to come in and give some extra money. But what she's also for is that here should simply be the most popular, the institutions with the most muscles to be able to apply for funds and those that business might think are more valuable for them to support, benefit from our tipping instruments – not a fairer distribution, as our cultural policy has put up to all since we got drugs into the scheme. I want an evaluation. Both the Museum Association and part of the actors who are actually among the largest who get part of these sums want an evaluation. Can the Minister give us an evaluation?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e1359	We've got 1.5 billion. kr through this scheme. It gives the state room for action to give priority to those who are not good at getting private money. It gives more to culture. This is a matter for which I am going to fight. That was my suggestion in this room – the first time 10-15 years ago. We see that Norwegian cultural life serves that purpose. As long as we get more into culture, we also get a larger space of action to give priority to those who are not good at getting private money.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e1366	There's been a little bit of an interesting discussion here. Among other things, we have heard that this government is 1 percent, even if it is against it, while the truth is that a share of about 0,8 pst. of the State budget for cultural purposes, as defined. We are not talking about how large the budget is for the entire Ministry of Culture, there are other things it is financing. But it is also not surprising that the proportion of culture has fallen over many years, when the Council of State spends time both here and in an article in the evening post saying that it is a bad idea to spend more money on culture at all. Then I wonder: why is it that we are still going to spend more money on e.g. assistance and defence, with concrete percentages of money use, but that it does not specifically relate to cultural life? Why are those areas suitable for percentages, but not for culture? Isn't cultural life important enough for the Council of State, or is it that she might not get through to get an entire percentage?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e1373	I have to say first that there's pretty unfair use of money the way SV here is counting on, because when SV put in government, they didn't just count the cultural budget into the cultural percentage, but also the cultural effort within other departments into that percentage. So first of all, if you want to sit and calculate percentages -- which I don't think is very useful -- you have to be honest with those numbers. And then we're at the core and the reason why I think that debate is not a good idea – because it's just an idea of 1 pst. I want a cultural policy debate in which we can really rely on: What is good governance of Norwegian libraries? What is good governance of Norwegian cultural school? Is the best way to strengthen our cultural school in doing things like, for example, SV suggests in the setting to control the parental payment from this room? Or are there other ways that it's better to control culture? I think those debates bring culture much further than the debate on 0.8 or 1.1 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e1380	There is a bad promise for the future budgetary conferences when the Minister of Culture cannot even say what is cultural purpose and not what it is. There are pretty clear definitions of this already. But I want to take another question. Governments think it's a bad idea to spend more money on culture – okay. But she thinks it's a good idea that what we spend on money should be controlled more by who gets private donations – shifting power in cultural life from democratic cultural policy to those with great wealth. From 2014 to 2017, half of the grant from the gift enhancement scheme was awarded to 20 individual beneficiaries. In 2018, Oslo and Hordaland received 20 million, respectively. NOK 26 million. kr each, while Eastfold and Sogn and Fjordane received hundreds of thousands. At the same time, the funds are taken from the tipping agents – 70 million. kr now, which could go to the cultural school system, cultural freedom, children’s and young people’s freedom, e.g. Does the Council of State really believe that this geographical distribution of bias and the ageing of the ticking funds is a fair distribution of public cultural crowns – since she has the ideas behind it?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e1387	First, I have to say that the reference to cultural purposes was that I referred to what the previous government defined as cultural purposes. That's where I think you have to have a honesty. And it's not like I'm saying that culture doesn't need money, I'm just pointing out that we're giving more money without having 1 pst. As a goal, than you would have done if you had 1 pst. as an objective. The power within culture is also about giving room to those who are usually the weakest. If some of the big museums are able to get private money for their expansions, well, then we have money to go on, which allows us to build some of the small museums. It was almost 1 billion. kr for cultural buildings – 18 different places, only 20 of them went to Oslo – in the last year’s state budget, which was about cultural buildings absolutely all over the country. We have room for that because so many of the other museums are able to get private money for their expansions. It is about mobilising the good forces in the country – and not believing that all power must be exercised in the Minister of Culture’s office.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e1396	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e1403	First of all, I would like to thank the Minister of Culture for a very good report, which we are debating today. Reception in the cultural sector has been positive. Even the opposition has said that the message beautifully describes the meaning of culture. They may have boasted so much of the message that in the last few days they have had to go out and say that it may not deserve so much boasting, and that they may not be quite as agreeable as they have given the impression. The government believes culture is an independent building block in society. It is important to be able to develop as much as possible on their own premises without state override, but with the public as a facilitator, and it provides the message in a good way. For us, it is important that culture is built and governed from below. For us, it is important to facilitate the small, the local, and the alternative scenes and voices of cultural life. But it is also important, of course, to facilitate through economic instruments. Around 3.6 billion. kr is the cultural field strengthened since 2011. In addition, a more liberal local economy – in fact the best in many years – will also enable local politicians to prioritise culture. In this way, good government grant schemes, more liberal local economy, incentives for private donors and the strengthening of cultural actors contribute to good cultural framework conditions. So the opposition's answer is 1 pst. by the State budget. Everyone wants more, they say. Yeah, who doesn't want it, does she? The Red-Greens will not read the entire report from the Enger Committee that evaluated their own cultural policy. For it states, as the Council of State also said, that despite more money, the use of cultural services did not increase. Researcher Bård Kleppe at Telemarksforschung follows up in the evening post and says that cultural consumption actually went down despite increased appropriations, and not least he determines that the artistic economy became worse. – We should agree, across the parties, that the popularity, content and use of culture are important. Kleppe also states that the same medicine will once again lead to the public taking a larger part of the cultural bill, but that the common cultural user will not notice a big difference. During this period we have improved the copyright law. A primary objective is to ensure the income of rightholders. The law is a central instrument for the government's goal of enabling creative and performing artists to live more fully from their own activities. We believe the consequences are that performers now will be better able to live by their art, without increased appropriations over the state budget. It's a little surprising that more money gets the main message to the red-green ones, once again.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e1425	I have to say that I think it is rather disappointing that at a time when art is actually under pressure, and where we know that freedom of expression is constantly being challenged, the representative Trettebergstuen manages to say that the only thing that is interesting in this announcement is the chapter that goes on economics. There's only one chapter that's interesting, at least what was said. But it's more than just the economy that matters, and I invite the representative Trettebergstien to also be here to discuss the underlying principles, which are important in order to be able to operate art and culture in Norway. Because it has something to say that a large number in a setting says that in order to ensure that everyone is able to express themselves in a good way, we need to facilitate, for example, that it should be possible to do so on both forms of measurement, in book measures and in new Norwegian. But it was perhaps too obvious that the opposition was able to join it in the setting. When the representative, Sem-Jacobsen, points out that no more money is being given, neither is that right, because in the budgetary processes, in which we are dealing with the budget itself, there has been more money, as the Council of State clearly pointed out. The representative of the Supreme Court says that the state is abdicating its responsibility when inviting private operators to contribute financially. But if you get more private money, it gives us a room for action. I'm just so that private people can join in and pay for the things they're interested in. It gives us scope for action to ensure that the breadth of culture actually has an economic basis. The main act of the opposition — the main proposal for the opposition — is to remove the gift-enhancing scheme. But I was just a few weeks ago and visited the House of Lords and Fredrikshald's theater, where they underlined the importance of this scheme for them to get through their projects. It's not necessarily that much money for exactly them, but the money is crucial for things to go around.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e1433	I hope that this message – at least in retrospect – will help us to have a clear discussion on the basis on which we are going to pursue cultural policy in Norway, because it is actually needed. That's a pretty important discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e1436	Culture develops identity, creativity, democracy and strengthens the community. In fact, cultural policy has always been an active instrument in our national construction. Culture binds us together and should – and should – challenge and touch us. Therefore, high-quality art and culture must be accessible to all throughout the country, regardless of age, but also created and developed throughout the country. That is why we also need national cultural institutions outside Oslo. In fact, national institutions with professional artists create ring-effects and bud-shooting and strengthen the regional and local art and cultural environments. They also represent important counter-powers to Oslo, thus strengthening democracy and public change of words. The Bergen Philharmonic Orchestra clearly refers to the fact that they had not had a national status, so they had not been invited to all the international arenas that they have been invited to in recent years. CODE is responsible for some of our most central cultural heritage in music and art, and it is in the interests of the whole nation that we are able to lift it up. Randomly they grew up – Grieg, Ole Bull, Säverud – in Bergen, and so are their buildings. That's what provides the basis for creating new art, based on the historical experience and the knowledge that we have, and that's why we have to preserve them. The same with Astrup: Although he was not from Bergen, now at least his collection is in Bergen. The way I experience it now, when I meet my own people in Bergen and in the municipalities of Hordaland, they feel that it's an A and B team, both in terms of investment and how you put yourself into words about how you experience cultural policy. Art and culture are like something in Oslo, and then the rest of the country can be like the B team, which gets what is dripping beyond. But be aware that this interaction between professional and creative has just been the basis for us getting the Bergens wave – I think there have been two or three tsunamis in Bergen – that have created some of the leading music players that we have today. The same is true of being internationally recognised. The same is true with TV 2: They had a conscious strategy to facilitate that they would not always produce everything themselves, but they invited the film and documentary environment. The first prices we received in Norway in short films were based on just the environment that was in Bergen. So it's about seeing the whole country. So it's the same distance from here to Rome as from here up. That's why we have to have the local identity and the local art and culture, and we have to give it a real space and a real balance.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e1448	Yes, the message signals a cultural promise. I think I disagree with the representative Trettebergstuen. We get a lot of messages where we are just going to debate culture, and I really want us in this room to debate culture a lot more often, and not least to do so in the different local governments around the country and in the new regions. And then I think we're going to discuss culture, and not that it's going to be downgraded to a really kind of ridiculous debate and a competition for who gives the most. Because culture is about so much more. It's about creativity and innovation, it's about breaking borders, it's about arm's length distance, a principle that I want to fall into the new cultural law. Culture is under pressure. There may be, of course, some people think, when we discuss that culture is opinions, but the play 'Billy Elliot' is not set up in Hungary because it doesn't promote family values. It's not that far away. We also want artists to live by their art. We need to find out more about how they can do it, and how the state can contribute. I'm concerned that we're going to mobilize all the forces into the culture. Maybe that's where the distinction between the position and the opposition is. I want foundations, that private people can be mobilised to give money into culture, so that those who create can create more. The right took two big grips when they had ministers of culture. One was the gift-enhancing system. We have debated it here. It's actually given 1.5 billion. kr more for culture. We have also established Talent Norway. It's because young talents in our cultural schools are actually going to have an opportunity to evolve further and get up in the national and international arena. Talents, whether they're in dance or they're working on movies, have actually had the opportunity to evolve, and there's 500 new talents inside that program. That's what I call results.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e1459	It is absolutely amazing when a representative from the same city – even though it is one from the Workers' Party – says so much about Bergen. I would like to inform the assembly that part of the institutions that Ruth Grung referred to are actually among those who have received money through the gift enhancement scheme. CODE has received money, the Festival games in Bergen have received money, Bergen National Opera has received money, the Aquarium in Bergen has received money, and not least harmony, to which we know the mountains have a wonderful relationship. That you then stand here today and can afford to say no to 1.5 billion. kr to culture, I think is a little greedy. It is thanks to the gift-enhancing system that many today have a chance to stand on their legs and develop further. It is a state intervention and an incentive for art and cultural institutions to obtain private funding for their own projects. I think it's absolutely amazing to see that the system works, and that there's more money coming to cultural life. In the Progress Party we think it is great that individuals, businesses, foundations, etc. in civil society, what a value art and culture have in society. That they see the value of engaging financially, I see nothing wrong at all. The gift-enhancing system recognises and encourages civil society’s commitment to cultural life, and this ensures greater diversity. So private engagement in culture is important. That cultural life gets money from sources other than public is healthy. We know that this is a discussion that has gone many times. I know that both the Workers' Party and SV are ready to shut down the scheme. I feel a great responsibility as a cultural politician, but also as a politician from Hordaland, to fight for this very scheme, because it is worrying that you should sit inside Oslo and possibly vote down a system that provides such good incentives across the mountains. I'm happy to come from a big city like Bergen, but I'm also happy to be able to refute the arguments that the Workers' Party has argued earlier today, that this only benefits the big cities, because it's wrong. It's Hordaland, my home country, a great example of. I don't want to go home and say to «Statsraad Lehmkuhl», Baroniet Rosendal and Hordaland Theatre that this amazing arrangement no longer works.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e1474	What's interesting in the discussion about the gift-enhancing scheme is that the government parties talk about it as if you were conjuring up completely new funds, but that's not the way it is. There's someone who takes the bill for the 25 pst. that reinforces the private gift, and it is also quite clear who takes that bill. It's the cultural school bag, over the tipping tools. It's also a system we're for, isn't it? There are practice rooms and premises for the performance of cultural freedom, above the means of tipping. It's Freefonds, children's and youth's freedom. The gift-enhancing system is a balancing of the means of tipping away from the broad schemes, which are extremely important to the local culture around, and gives it to some institutions in an unfair, undemocratic way. I don't mind those institutions. No, on the contrary, I want to give them more money over the state budget, in the democratic way, as we do in the cultural policy of this country as usual. But don't do that. The Minister of Culture is attacking SV for the local cultural promise we are proposing here. It is only to record that the Left is opposed to a five-year promise for the libraries, that the Left is opposed to having measures to allow everyone access to the cultural school, irrespective of the economy and background, that the Left is against children and young people having the right to a meaningful leisure offer, or to do something with the last part of the cultural core wall that is not regulated in today's legislation, i.e. the youth homes, leisure clubs, that the Left is opposed to providing more resources for the practice facilities and to improving acoustics and performance facilities for local cultural freedom, and that the Left is also against the recordings we have received so many times from NOKU, which work out there in the municipalities with culture, that we need a stronger cultural law that makes some demands for management, for planning, that some things should be in place, not in terms of content, but in terms of how they work around the country. It's surprising to me because we in SV have at least looked at what the Enger Committee said, which pointed out that there is a need for such a national lift for the cultural base wall as well. So the right-hand side tries to attack us not to come up with new ideas and not to be concerned with the freedom of art and all the other things that are in the message. Yes, of course – the only thing is that we've taken it further. All right, we agree, we need to defend art as free speech. At that time it might have been nice to have a prime minister who does not attack it, for example, and then it would also have been good to build a national infrastructure and move on to the measures that actually provide that freedom. It's a cultural policy task that requires action, it requires money, it requires politicians who come with something more than just fine problem descriptions. That's what the left-hand side has done in this cultural message, and we're now getting that criticism. Now that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e1485	Culture binds us together as human beings. It creates understanding across cultures and creates bridges and expressions that challenge established norms and values. I feel that in this big message about the power of culture. It's been 16 years since we last addressed a big message about culture. All the parties at Stortinget agree that culture is important for formation and expression, but our ideologies distinguish us in how we believe culture can best be managed. The right considers that culture should be managed from below and up, not above and below. Culture has a self-esteem. The valuation of culture is difficult, but it is a very important goal for this government and for the Right that cultural life should be sustainable and find more strings to play on. Therefore, culture alone cannot be dependent on the State budget. The right considers the gift-enhancing scheme to be important to enable cultural institutions to raise money from the private sector. The gift-enhancing system rewards them by 25 p.m. ATTACHMENT. The feedback we get from those who use the scheme is that they are satisfied and that the support is invaluable. The Labour Party is right in its observations that there are few who have received this support in Finnmark. In 2018, there was the first time that someone from Finnmark searched through the scheme, but that does not mean that business is not good enough to support under culture in Finnmark, it is mainly due to the fact that the scheme has not been well known. It's sad, and I hope that's what I want to change. Nevertheless, the municipalities of Finnmark, Troms and Nordland, all governed by the Workers' Party, have failed to advertise this scheme aimed at cultural institutions. They may disagree so much that they sabotage the arrangement. But it's a big deal not to have allies to reverse this trend. Only our institutions in North Norway are losing their knowledge of the gift-enhancing system, especially when these are already doing a very good job of getting private funds for culture. We need to facilitate local cultural life, a varied cultural life, which characterises good communities. I think what's growing locally is going to be allowed to bloom locally. That is why it is of value to local cultural life that the new regions should take on new tasks, that we will have new cultural politicians with more responsibility. Therefore, it is of value that culture should be managed from below and not through the narrow loop of this cave door.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e1498	I understand that the representatives of the right-wing parties want the debate on the communication of culture to be about, of course, things like art being speech, art being democratizing, etc. But it's as stupid as saying that a debate on NTP, which is the opposite of the cultural message in the transport sector, is going to be about that road is democracy, that the cycle path is great, and that auto protection is a nice thing. No, of course, an NTP debate is about what you want to do concretely to build infrastructure, to make it happen, and not least what obligations you have to follow it up with money. That should also be the subject of the cultural message. When we talk about 1 percent, it's not because it's our goal. It's just an instrument to achieve our goals. We're talking here today about what we want to achieve. We have the new measures to allow more people to participate, we want more universal schemes that give everyone a taste of art and culture. We are the ones who have the new grips to strengthen the artistic economy, and we are the ones who say that we need to keep building up the cultural infrastructure by building up regional cultural funds instead of playing with the idea of moving the national to the regional one. To achieve that, we need an obligating plan, and that's the 1 percent. I understand very well that the opposition does not want to talk about it, because the big message contains no concrete commitments on how we are going to achieve these goals, these beautiful words that all agree on. It also contains no obligations for more money, on the contrary, it is said that this is not going to be done. I could stand here and offer a discussion, which the representative of Almeland wanted, about these naturalities, for example. that we need more provocative art, and that art is freedom of expression. Yes, then it would actually be an advantage if more people stood up for the freedom of expression of the people behind the Ways of Seeing when that debate broke. But what happened? Yes, the people from the Right set the mouse still. The party representatives wanted to boycott. The Prime Minister – I am sorry – did not have a very lucky performance in that debate. We could discuss that. We could also discuss what representatives from the Progress Party said here earlier today, that they want the state to finance art that is already commercially popular, and that fine culture is not something to bet on. We could discuss whether the rest of the right-hand side agrees. But it boils down to the fact that if we want something about culture, if we want to achieve the objectives that we all agree on in the Culture Communication, we need binding, concrete measures, and we need to say something about how we are going to achieve and implement those measures. That's what the opposition is doing in connection with this message today, saying that we need a new cultural promise.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e1511	The representative, Mr Almeland, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e1516	What I pointed out in my speech was that I am disappointed that efforts are being made to reduce the debate to deal with a chapter on economic and administrative consequences. But I'm going to read from the cultural messages of the red-green government. In the Red-Green Government Report. St. 19 for 2012–2013 reads: ‘The measures, etc. which is discussed in the notification may be carried out within the budgetary framework of the departments concerned.’;» In Report. Paragraph 10 for 2011–2012 reads as follows: ‘The Ministry of Culture considers that this should be done within the current budgetary framework.’ In Report. St. 23 for 2011–2012 also says that the red-green government should do so within existing budgetary frameworks. That's why I think it's pretty pointless to spend the time discussing this chapter. But I think the representative Trettebergstien took up one important dividing line, and that's what goes on at NTP. The Culture Communication is not the NTP of culture. We're not going to have a national detail management.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e1531	Now it's starting to get a little temperature in the debate, and that's good. I want to look at a group that we have not discussed so much. It's accessible and children and young people. This is precisely why the government wants to introduce a national cultural card, because children and young people, regardless of their background, will have the opportunity to experience culture. Yes, we have the cultural school bag, but we want to expand it with this national cultural card. So I look forward to it coming, because it will give more children and young cultural experiences, maybe also other cultural experiences. The representative Trettebergstien spoke of the road as democracy. Yes, it is, but we have to take more trains. And that's exactly what culture is all about: it's innovation and creativity, and it doesn't come from the state. It comes from below, it comes from those who actually work with culture, and not least from those who are frontier-breaking and ground-breaking. I see that there are some differences in instruments. The gift-enhancing scheme is mentioned several times here. But I can't let go of repeating that we have to mobilize all the forces in order to help raise culture. To make a comparison with football Norway: the elite series had not existed today if it had not been for private sponsors to contribute. And some of the resources that go in there can also benefit from cultural life. I note that there is a great difference between how the Workers' Party and the Centre view regional reform. There may be a strenuous exercise with a potential future partner. Then I guess I'm going to say that the government has put something on the brake. We didn't want to go far as far as the Hagen committee did. But we want a hand on the wheel. If you want to decentralize culture to the regions, as I said in my previous post, it should be a cultural policy purpose. It's not a district policy purpose.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e1542	People from the position say they're so disappointed that the opposition reduces this to become a debate on economics. Well, I'm disappointed that the position simply makes you try to avoid talking about a message that says x times how important it is with culture as a value, and then you don't spend any time and effort making money. You have to understand that it's going to be essential to record. You can say as much as you want – even in other policy areas – that you want things to be so nice and so nice, but at the end of the day, people in this room are talking. Isn't it? I think it's very strange that you say, like, The representative of Almeland, from the Left, made budgets available. But that is the message we are discussing today. It says, black on white, that there will be no money for cultural life beyond the framework you have today. It's a pleasure if what's in the message isn't right. I'm saying that there's going to be a lot more, I'm looking forward to that. I also look forward to having the economy discussed, as well, when we are going to review a number of new messages that are coming. To the minister and to the position I have to say that I expect that in that message work you will talk a little about economics too, otherwise not all the parties are credible. To the gift-enhancing scheme: Yes, there are a number of losers in the large, good and fine schemes that get funds from the tipping funds, using the gift-enhancing scheme. 20 of the biggest players – they are big and good – get over half of the gifts. They get money while the big schemes, such as strengthening the local base wall will not be provided with funds. It's because of how much money you've spent on cultural life, but 62 pst. of those who give money to the funds for the strengthening of funds, foundations and non-profit institutions serving households are already entrusted with the task of giving money. So they would give that money to cultural life as it went. I hope and believe that part of the organisations in Bergen mentioned by the representative Hemdal are as solidarity as many others in cultural life are, when they say that even if they get quite a lot of money from the gift enhancement scheme, they want an evaluation. They believe that major and broad cultural actions are more important than this scheme. So I'm still going to cheer up on an evaluation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e1553	It was a little sad that the representative Sem-Jacobsen obviously did not hear Almeland's posts. There will never be money in messages – nor did it in the red-green days – and he read aloud from the chapter that is in all messages. It's not to be patronizing, but it's always been like that. That's why it's a little sad that you get a debate that's just about something that this message doesn't mention – it does the government budgets – sail if this government has really raised the cultural area. At the end of the day, we were able to get up something about disagreements. It is quite clear that SV wants the state to go stronger in, manage the libraries and manage the cultural schools. And it's a completely honest thing to say, and it's clear that we have a slightly different view of how to steer cultural policy. If you think that cultural policy is like a national transport plan, if you think that art and culture are governed like a national transport plan, if you think that you have to build art like you build a road, then we disagree. Then it shows the ideological disagreement that is actually in this message. Then we got to smoke it out. There's a big leap, of course, between the Workers' Party, which is in the middle of here, the SV who will rule more, the Center Party who wants to move more money down the system, and the MDG and Red, who don't even participate in the debate, so important is the culture. So how that coalition becomes is hard to know for Culture-Norway. It's not like we've made sure that the funds for the cultural school bag go down. No, it's got a session. It is not that there are only tippers that make the music equipment system almost double, there is also money on the state budget – if it makes it much better for the representative of Trettebergstuen. It's not about a cultural policy where we're going to give people more tastes, as the Labour Party says, no, we're going to have a quality cultural policy. We're going to make sure that we constantly reach out to the best of the good arrangements, and that we actually stand up for freedom of speech. The Trettebergstuen did not comment on my role, but I am responsible for freedom of expression within the arts. It's actually like we've been betting on all the free theatre scenes. We've been working on it all over the country just to be a counter-power for those who just choose to keep the heavy institutions going. We want the art and culture out to people. We want the counterclaims out. We want the opportunity to build art and culture from below. It's very far away from a national transport plan, where we're going to instruct about bike paths, tell us where to go, and which cars we're going to drive. We believe that art and culture are growing from below. It was very nice that at the end of the day, the differences in cultural policy actually appeared in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e1568	First, thank you for the traffic information provided by the Minister of Culture. In a political landscape where it is difficult to see the difference on the left and the right, such clarification may be possible. A gambling message is a long-term plan for an area. The main objectives can then be summarised, overall strategies can be established, and commitment plans for the coming years can be referred to. In the cultural message we have received, the objectives are fine, the strategy is unclear and the commitment is absent. The thing is, there are no other areas of society that had found themselves in that their long-term plan had been that way. Of course, there's a difference between road construction and culture, just as there's a difference between psychiatry and defense. However, there are different areas of obligatory planning. Take research that is comparable to culture – it is free researchers who use their freedom of expression, who explore new landscapes and who go their own way. There, the Left Party has been, I would say, pushing Norway to have an obligating goal of how much money we're going to spend on research without instructing each individual researcher, without having to sit in the main hall and decide how the research is going to be done, and without thus binding on the different institutions. That comparison could be made by the Minister of Culture instead of talking about the national transport plan. So the council says it's kind of not dangerous, this, it doesn't matter. Well, I've been to ten budget conferences in government. There comes the different state councils and refers to each of their plans. The size has promised so much and so much to defend, the Storting has promised so much to psychiatry, the Storting has promised so much to care for the elderly and the Storting has promised so much and so much to research. When you're done with all this, the Minister of Culture comes and says, "Yes, yes, I'll take what's left after all this." We have promised so much and so much to tax cuts – to bring it in the same sling. It's totally incomprehensible that a Minister of Culture doesn't want to get into the conference that we're going to have 1 pst. and could hit the table with it. But now I understand that the Minister of Culture has already fulfilled the 1 percent because they've changed the method of calculation. The Council of State said from the pulpit instead, which is a mere misunderstanding or deception, that all the cultural efforts of the departments are accounted for in the cultural promise. No, you don't. It was the Ministry of Culture's demarcated cultural effort plus the U.D.'s commitment to culture. It has been severely cut under the bourgeois government, but it will probably be easier to write the big message with the Minister of Foreign Affairs, about foreign affairs and culture, when you don't even have a commitment there. There is no contrast between public investment and private investment, as the government tries to say.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e1584	At least I am pleased with the explanation from the representative Giske that the cultural message is not to be compared with a national transport plan. Now, I guess no one from the government parties took the road and the walk and the bike path into this debate. I guess it's more important than that. I just want to remind you that behind every chapter of this message there are a lot of bullets saying something about future bets. I have never been involved in dealing with big business messages that have specific budget lines in the different areas of activity. In that case, it would be quite alarming. I am extremely pleased with the initiative that is being discussed, including: about digitisation. It's absolutely necessary, it's new. Digitalisation of art – we heard about Bjarne Melgaard in the NRK today, trying new things. That's good, we're going to contribute to that. That's cultural card bet. It is also mentioned in the chapter on children and young people. There is a targeted mechanism for increased participation; there are efforts within democracy; it is a chapter dealing with internationalisation. It was also the representative Giske. In fact, it says to facilitate increased internationalisation of art and culture. I remember we're the main country at the Frankfurt fair. The government has also granted $30 million. kr to promote Norwegian culture and art, which is incredibly popular abroad. The committee was in Japan not long ago, and we saw that everything that was about, among other things. Munch, was incredibly exciting. It was part of not only promoting art and culture, but we have ‘spin-offs’, that we are also interested in Norwegian design abroad. So that's the way, back to this with bet on talents in the different programs, whether it's in design or dance, it's also part of what's about being able to bring Norwegian culture and art into the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e1597	The representative Anette Trettebergstien has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e1602	It's tempting to say that the representatives of the right-hand side make themselves dumber than they really are if they think I meant to say that culture and asphalt are comparable. Of course it's not. Culture is not hallucinogenic. That's two completely different things. But my point is this: no other policy area would have had to figure out that a culture committee and a government were standing here and saying that we should think a lot about how nice and beautiful everything is, but we shouldn't say anything about how we're going to follow it up, and we don't want to commit to how we're going to achieve the goals. I think culture deserves better. Culture deserves us to be concrete. Culture deserves us to say something about having their small share of the annual growth of the state budget, because that's what 1 percent means. As soon as the representatives of the right-hand side stop reading the Enger selection as the hell reads the Bible. We're the ones who ordered the Enger Committee. The Enger committee pointed to where we should bet in the future, and we were not finished in 2013. We wanted to move on. We have to move on now. The Party of Workers, SV and the Centre have agreed on a common cultural promise. We hope to complete it when we win the election again.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e1609	First, I want to challenge the Minister of Culture here in the Chamber, because when she herself uses calculations that show that she has met the 1 percent, it must mean that the department has calculated this. We've asked the department if it's possible to figure that out. Then the department said that it is not possible to calculate it. It has to be resolved today. Is it possible, on the basis of the same criteria that we used when we calculated the Cultural Promise in my time as Minister of Culture, in the time of Anniken Huitfeldt and Hadia Tajik as Ministers of Culture, to continue to get an estimate of how much of the State budget constitutes the defined part of the cultural budget? Since the Council of State itself said that it had fulfilled the 1 percent, it is fine if she can explain to this Chamber, which she certainly has great parliamentary respect for, on how this is calculated, whether it is possible to obtain such calculations also for the opposition's arrangements. So the Council of State says that the Enger Committee said this was not successful. No, that's not what the Enger committee said. The Enger Committee said that the areas in which the municipalities are responsible have not had an equivalent commitment – libraries, cultural schools, what is called the cultural base wall – because they are not on the state budget. Of course, making earmarked schemes can contribute, but it is primarily the municipal budget that determines whether you succeed, or we can set some national targets, for example. to remove one of Norway’s most meaningless cows – the queue of kids standing waiting for a place in the cultural school. The council says that the Enger committee showed that we didn't use any more culture. No, she can. The Opera has, for example, practically not a single seat available. Although we have doubled the operating appropriations for the Opera under the Cultural Promise, there were no more audiences, because the Opera is just full. There were no more people in the cinema either, but the Norwegian proportion of cinemas went up from 9 p.m., the lowest in the 1990s, to almost 25 p.m., which was the ambitious goal of the cultural promise. No more tickets were sold in cinema, but many more tickets were sold to Norwegian films. If the Minister of Culture doesn't care whether it's Hollywood productions or Norwegian-produced films that people go and watch, she's understood very little about the cultural promise, or, if so, it's understandable that she doesn't share that goal. Similarly, with literature, in the same way with theatre, it is in the same way with all forms of art. It is important that we have it in Norwegian language, in Norwegian tradition, with Norwegian expressions and with Norwegian artists and Norwegian cultural workers. That must be the goal of the cultural promise. There are more than enough countries that leave this to imports from the United States and the major commercial producers. We, who are behind the cultural promise, want a strong national cultural policy, and it is surprising that the two councils of state that sit in the hall are not with us on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e1624	Now I've heard the representative Giske tell me how terrible it has been to sit in budget conferences and fight for money for culture. It's not something I recognize myself in. We in the Left have given priority to culture, and we have also given priority to putting the party leader to work with culture. Anyone in this room who's been at budget conferences might think that I'm getting a little too easily to the money, and we've delivered a government budget where culture was named budget winner. So I do not see the resistance in budgetary conferences with us that the representative Giske has clearly felt. So to the Enger Committee: Of course, it is possible to designate government funds in the system, as SV calls for: manage the municipalities more, make sure that we also manage attendance fees, and that we manage transfers to the libraries. But on our side, it's not a good way to control culture. What we've done instead is to make sure that the municipalities have a significantly better economy. So the ROBEK list is gone, and much of the reality that a lot of the municipalities and the municipal economy were in under the red-green is history. I think that the bets we're making on, for example. literature — both through the Frankfurt initiative, through the reading days we have, and through the measures we have to raise the book and disseminate Norwegian literature — will have effects. More state control of the libraries I think gives a wrong focus. There are a lot of municipal politicians doing a big job lifting the libraries. All the numbers of what the Ministry of Culture spends on money are open and public in this room. What I pointed out about the desire for a little more honesty in the use of numbers in the sequence exchange with SV is that when you present your cultural promise in the evening post, you operate with other numbers than when you put in government and tents yourself. I just want us to have the same things that we can compare, and I think what we spend the money for is also interesting in cultural policy. I'm going to fight for culture to rise in every budget. We've increased the cultural budget by 3.6 billion. kr in the last period, while you now want 3.2 billion. kr in increments and manufactures it as a cultural promise. What cultural promise gives of raising in actual money is less than what we've done without having percentages as a measure. That's what I mean; we have to discuss the content, what we're going to spend the money for, how we're going to get the best possible and the best possible culture for them -- not necessarily chasing a percentage that's a pretty moving goal when you're operating with different ways of counting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e1637	The representative Trond Giske has spoken the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e1642	Let me start by being generous. Trine Skei Grande is no budget paper. There's no doubt that she's got a significantly better impact than her predecessors in the bourgeois government, so that's good, and that credits all of us who are concerned with culture. But the more important it would have been to have an obligating goal at a time when budgets are likely to be tougher to put together, and the fight for the crowns is getting harder. What I see as a positive answer from the Minister of Culture is that she says it's important that we be able to compare on the same basis, and that we thus get calculations made on the same premises. I see that as a yes to my question that we can get a calculation of what it looks like to the cultural promise, given the premises that were in the cultural promise definition in the years 2005–2013. Of course, there have been changes between departments, and something has been delegated to the states, but it is also possible to figure in and take into account, so we come back to that and ask for it, as the Council of State says.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e1649	The representative Freddy André Øvstegård has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e1655	There's a lot of things I could say in the end, but there's some people we've forgotten so far in the hall, and they've also been forgotten in the message about representation and diversity in cultural life. Because they're people with disabilities. Today, in the newspaper today, we can read a chronicle from researchers and culture where there is strong criticism of this message. Research over 20 years shows that people with disabilities face more barriers than the rest of the population. Despite that, we can also read, there are no specific bets on art for and with people who have a disability. On the contrary, persons with disabilities are disadvantaged by the operational definition of diversity in this Communication. It is a democratic problem that people with disabilities are excluded from the message of culture and culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e1660	I just have to be allowed to answer the representative of the Supreme Court. Just to mention one act in the revised national budget: we make a grant scheme to get a pilot, to ensure that all the accompanying certificates for disabled people can become electronic, which means that all disabled people can go to cultural events, order tickets like everyone else, and adapt their participation to cultural events just like everyone else. I work with some Norwegian concert organisers who are working on several projects to make it available to experience culture, the opportunity to order a seat for their wheelchair at the concert, to bring along with them, and to facilitate all kinds of art and culture. I am very pleased that the representative from SV gave me the opportunity to talk about this, because no newspapers have wanted to write about it. But this is one of the bets that just comes in revision. We're going to make sure that culture is accessible to everyone, no matter what background you have. I think we're going to stop talking about people with disabilities as one fixed group in society. I think the vast majority of us sometimes have a function variation that makes us need organization. Then we're not going to talk about this being a group in society. We're actually going to talk about that in the course of a life it's up to us all, that we probably need special organization. That's how we're going to organize the whole community. Then we're not going to deal with it specifically, but we're going to say that everyone is a citizen of a society with equal rights and equal opportunities. That's what we're trying to make up for, for example. with the measures contained in the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e1668	I think we have gradually had a good debate on the cultural message, which is a message and not a national transport plan, which we have expressly been refuted here from the pulpit. I would like to say to the representative of the Supreme Court: Yes, that was an important point he made, but I would also like to point out that it is mentioned in the message. We are talking about relevance and representativeness in terms of participation and democracy building. I read from the message about what you add to the reason: ‘The scope lacks space dimensions such as social and cultural background, gender, functionality, religion, orientation and age.’ So that's the basis. But making art, dance, music and all expressions available to everyone requires special arrangements for those with disabilities. There I think we have a bit to go – not only in terms of participation in culture, but also in other fields, for example sports and participation in society in general. That's what I think is a theme we need to spend more time on. So that's how the message signals that we're going to get more messages. We haven't dedicated the discussion here to our museums in particular. I'm really glad we're getting a museum message. I hope that we get it quite quickly, Minister of Culture, because I have a concern about how the museums are going to be -- more accessible, that they are renewing and getting in more of the users, so that there are not only ladies over a certain age and those with gray hair who are going to benefit from what is at the museums. There we need a big discussion to get new ideas up. Then I want to thank you for the start of this debate and that we get more debates of this kind. Not least when we get the regional reform back, with the tasks that the regions will eventually get, we get a new discussion about how to do this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e1684	The representative of Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e1689	I want to thank you for the end of this debate, I, because I think it was quite refreshing and important to point out that here you are talking about a little bit of different numbers. The opposition has asked to know how to figure this out by 1 pst, and then we don't get it by the ministry, while the minister just hassles us a little bit and sits with completely different sums. I thought that was interesting. Then I'm going to hang out on the last speaker, who raised the museums. I just want to mention that the museum association wants an evaluation of the gift enhancement scheme, even as much as they get from it. And in the extension of what was also said about the museums and the museum message: there are now a number of new messages, and I would like to end by hoping and thinking that we will be allowed, without being ridiculed, to discuss how we, as cultural politicians, the Storting and the government, should also make a financial commitment to what is in those messages.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e1696	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e1712	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that up to three lines of response be given to posts by members of the Government, and that those who sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e1721	In this case, the government has followed up two of the Storting decision to assess the impact of and the necessary legislative changes to allow the wine monopoly to take over the duty-free sale of alcohol at Norwegian airports. The 30-page investigation is relatively thorough and neutral and shows the impact of any exclusive right on the sale of alcohol to the Vinmonopolet for public and private airports, as well as the impact of any exclusive right on the State and the Vinmonopolet itself. The study also looks at the alcohol policy framework, the relationship with EEA rules, State aid rules, etc. The investigation shows that any exclusive right to the duty-free sale of alcohol to the Vinmonopolet would create significant uncertainty as to the impact on the economy of the airports. The document shows, among other things: that there is a major disagreement between Avinor and the Vinmonopolet as to what would be the economic consequences if the Vinmonopolet were to take over the tax-free sale. If the Stortinge were to grant the Vinmonopolet exclusive rights to sell alcohol at airports, there would be a significant risk of hitting the economy of our airports. A likely consequence is that several of our airports are being closed down. Airports not owned by the State through Avinor would be particularly exposed if the Vinmonopolet were granted exclusive rights on duty-free sales. We in the Right believe that the duty-free sale at airports is to be put on the market in order to ensure the highest possible income at airports. The monopoly of wine is welcome to submit tenders, in line with the private actors, as they have outlined in their input to the ministry. A wholly-owned subsidiary that can participate in the competitive bidding process is an exciting solution that can give the Vinmonopolet a foot into the tax-free market, but thus through competitively driven tenders in the same way as private operators. The draft recommendation of the Health and Safety Committee has been submitted to the Committee for Transport and Communications for its opinion and had no further comments. So the vote by the majority of the committee is that today's regime, where airports choose tax-free suppliers based on competition, will continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e1734	The Labour Party will have a responsible alcohol policy, and we believe that the role of the Vinmonopole must be protected. As a society, we have a joint responsibility to limit the harm caused by alcohol use. We are behind the attitude, and we remember the Granavolden Declaration, which wants to investigate arrangements where the Wine Monopoly can compete. But these are questions that today have no obvious answers. For the Workers' Party, it is important not to do anything that threatens the wine monopoly system, while ensuring the revenue of airports. There are several major issues and challenges that need to be addressed in the possible investigation. At one point, it appears to be contrary to the logic behind the establishment of a commercial monopoly to organise competitive tendering procedures where there is a level playing field with private economic operators. The very purpose of the wine monopoly system is to prevent competition in this area. It should be borne in mind that signalling that the monopoly of wine is, in fact, to be regarded as an economic operator, the purpose of which is to obtain a profit, to compete in line with other economic operators, could lead to questions being asked about the whole of the monopoly system of wine within the EEA legal systems. We can't do anything to make sure that we put the whole monopoly of wine into play. The Workers' Party has programmed that we will consider having the Vinmonopolet take over the tax-free scheme, but at present there are too many unanswered questions, questions we do not have answers to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e1747	The tax-free regime has been debating our policy for many years. In recent years, the size of the population has taken several decisions to get a system out of which the wine monopoly takes over the tax-free sales of alcohol. In the policy platform of the plural government, we can read that there is agreement between the four parties about a new settlement. A system in which the Vinmonopolet participates in competition to operate the tax-free sales of alcohol at airports is now to be implemented. The 2017 State budget presented a holistic distribution of the tax-free regime, including a review of social policy perspectives. This distribution showed that the tax-free system, according to the Institute for Public Health, contributes to increasing alcohol consumption and that an increase in alcohol consumption has a direct impact on public health. The distribution also contained an assessment of the legal aspects by allowing the Vinmonopolet to take over the tax-free sales of alcoholic beverages. The conclusion was that the most likely is not EEA law or other international law barriers to the extension of the monopoly of the wine monopoly to the tax-free hall at aerodromes. It will strengthen rather than weaken the foundation of the Vinmonopolet. The fact that the revenue of the Vinmonopolet from the tax-free hall goes directly or indirectly to Avinor and the operation of aerodromes does not prejudge any conflict with the monopoly system. I had believed that this matter was something that the Christian People's Party would get into the government platform, and I believe that what is proposed – that the monopoly of wine should be part of bidding competitions with other commercial players – could weaken the foundation so that we can have a monopoly of wine in Norway. Today, the state has income losses resulting from the tax-free sale of alcohol, and the excess of the tax-free sale goes to private, commercial operators. The center party has programmed that we are to let the Vinmonopole take over the tax-free hall of alcohol. The current agreement expires in 2022, and it is now urgent to have a positive clarification in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e1758	Of course, for the Christian People's Party, it is also true that we want not only a responsible but also a solidarity of alcohol policy. In this picture, the Vinmonopolet also plays a major role. It is through the justification that we have for having a monopoly on wine, that the EEA Regulation allows us to do so, namely, the social and health policy arguments for having a monopoly on wine. The same arguments have been important for the Christian People's Party, considering the possibility that the Wine Monopoly can also take over the tax-free sale. We know that the monopoly on wine is under pressure. Tax-free sales are one of the reasons. That is why I am pleased that we are now getting an investigation into whether the Vinmonopole can participate in competitions to drive the tax-free sale. If that investigation shows that a State monopoly cannot participate in such a type of tender, and that ESA can put its foot down for it, I will only signal from my side at least that then I have a expectation that you will go further. By doing so, I believe that we must also be able to assess whether the Vinmonopole should simply take over the tax-free sale. And then all of these financial assessments come, not least in relation to Avinor and the private airports. We need to take a closer look at that. But if it turns out that it is not possible to get that kind of tender for a state monopoly, at least I have a expectation that we will go one step further.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e1765	The size has asked the government to present a separate case concerning the consequences of and necessary legislative changes to take over the wine monopoly from the duty-free sale of alcohol at aerodromes at the end of the current tendering period. In November, the government therefore presented an investigation to explain the consequences for the Vinmonopolet and the Aerodrome Economy if the Vinmonopolet takes over the duty-free sale of alcohol. The investigation shows that there is significant uncertainty about the consequences. The conclusion is that the choice of a scheme in which the Vinmonopolet is granted exclusive rights to sell alcoholic beverages at airports would entail an acceptance of a significant risk that this could have a negative impact on the aerodrome economy. The investigation also shows that EEA law limits the establishment of such a system, both in order to maintain current alcohol policy instruments and in order to be in line with public acquisition and State aid legislation. From an alcohol and EEA legal point of view, there will be no need for a system in which the operation of the Vinmonopole is intended to contribute to airport revenues. To put it simply, we cannot assume that the monopoly on wine will guarantee the revenues of airports if they take over the sale on the basis of an exclusive right. Both the Vinmonopolet and Avinor manage important societal tasks that need to be addressed. The wine monopoly shall contribute to the limited movement of alcohol in controlled forms without private economic justification for the sale and Avinor shall ensure good air navigation services throughout the country. The commercial income generated, inter alia, by: tax-free sales constitute one of the main sources of the Avinor co-financing model, where profitable airports contribute to the financing of unprofitable airports. The government will assess whether there are other options than exclusive for the wine monopoly to take over the alcohol sale. The Government Platform therefore provides that we wish to investigate whether the Vinmonopolet can compete to operate the duty-free alcohol sale at airports before considering the issue of tax-free sales. A prerequisite for the choice of a solution is that it does not affect Avinor’s ability to ensure the basis of a decentralised airport structure and the existence of private aerodromes or contribute to weakening the basis of the Vinmonopolet.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e1780	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e1796	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that up to five lines of response be given to posts by members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e1806	As rapporteur of the case, I would first of all like to point out to the representative of the Central Party that training of medical specialists is to meet the needs of healthcare. The representatives promote four proposals on: establishing 200 new posts, in line with the Health Directorate’s recommendation, and annual assessments; that a certain number of the new LIS1 settings are to be connected to ALIS settings to provide a precise overview of the scope of so-called hospital postal doctors and to obtain measures to ensure that the work performed by postal doctors today is carried out in the future by doctors in the LIS1 service; a long-term escalation plan to increase the number of Norwegian primary training places in medicine, so that the training capacity is better suited to the health care needs of doctors; In his reply, he pointed out that this had to be done in a sustainable way, ensuring that the services had sufficient capacity to provide guidance to the LIS1 doctors. At the same time, we see that the Health Directorate recommends a growth of 200 new LIS1 positions, both to get more medical specialists in hospitals and because the local health service has received more jobs. There is also a need for more fixed doctors, doctors need more normal working hours, hospital equipment and equipment needs to be better exploited, and waiting lists need to be reduced. We have also looked at the comments of the Younger Doctors' Association, which are in agreement with the Health Directorate's recommendations. The association estimates that with today's number of LIS1 positions, 5,188 trained doctors will be standing without LIS1 in 2045. But if you see a growth of 200 new LIS1 positions, it's estimated that only 105 doctors will be without LIS1 service in 2045. 200 new LIS1 positions are also in line with the Medical Association's recommendations on needs, although they believe that this figure will continue to make us dependent on imports. I would also like to refer to the Medical Association's input on the annual evaluation of the need for LIS1, and the Health Directorate makes such an annual evaluation. They also point to the need for regular and continuous monitoring to identify and meet the future needs of medical specialists. The Medical Association also points out that possible immediate action needs to be taken, and I note that the Committee agrees. Today, however, only the opposition is involved in the proposals. It is clear that there is a need for LIS1 positions, and we need to do the immediate actions we consider possible. We need more LIS1 positions and more fixed-wages, so it definitely supports SV – especially in a situation where we have a fixed-wage crisis, and it is difficult to recruit young doctors. I would like to bring up the proposals SV are on.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e1838	The representative Sheida Sangtarash has drawn up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e1844	We are simply facing a manning crisis in healthcare. Last week the SSB presented the report Labour Market for health professionals by 2035. The SSB report estimates a shortage of nurses up to 28 000 and a shortage of health professionals of 18 000 in 2035. In addition, for both doctors, nurses and health professionals, Norwegian health services have become increasingly dependent on immigration of persons with relevant training from abroad. The large children's pods that were born after the war begin to pass 75 years. Although we know that the older population is keeping healthy and living longer than before, the need for health care is also increasing. Because when we live longer, we don't get an extra round in the 30s – unfortunately, we might say – it's the end we get the extra years of life. Population trends mean that we are going to need many health care workers, and we are facing a dramatic shortage of health professionals over the next 15 years. More doctors leave the ministry than new ones are trained. There are too few places for doctors in specialisation in relation to the number of specialists who retire each year or leave their positions for different reasons. This means that Norway is in need of specialist candidates, and we are forced to import specialists from abroad. In some subjects, such as radiology and anaesthesia, over 40 pst. of the annual specialist approvals, conversions of foreign specialist approvals, according to the figures of the Medical Association. The association of younger doctors estimates that with today's number of LIS1 positions, 5,188 trained doctors will stand without LIS1 in 2045. On the other hand, if 200 new LIS1 positions are created, it is estimated that only 105 doctors will be without LIS1 service in 2045. The number of LIS1 positions is a bottleneck in the current medical education and specialisation cycle. I have been in dialogue with the Association of Young Doctors, which underlines the following: New specialist structure gives even longer queues. Due to a new specialist structure, all LIS candidates in hospitals must have completed the LIS1 service from 1 March this year. In the past, doctors trained in some countries have been able to skip Tour LIS1 to begin their specialisation. It's over now. The new rule will thus tighten the bottleneck further, and more people will have to enter the queue, which will only increase. The fixed crisis, which has been much debated in this Chamber in recent years, will also be reinforced by the lack of LIS1 positions. The fixed crisis is partly due to the recruitment failure of young doctors. All specialist general practitioners, ALIS, must also use the LIS1 service before they can begin specialisation in general medicine. Maintaining the bottleneck helps to slow down access to those who will become permanent doctors. That we have enough LIS1 positions is important for both hospitals and primary health services.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e1858	The Labour Party is concerned that the government does not take seriously the future manning crisis in the specialist health and health services. We believe that the recruitment of health professionals, as well as measures to ensure that trained personnel remain in the sector, needs to be much more offensive. It is not good that doctors do not move on in their specialisation and education courses as a result of a lack of investment in LIS positions. Measures such as more full-time jobs, more student practice places, LIS positions and apprenticeship places are all important to ensure enough staff in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e1861	There's something a little weird about this thing. In 2018, the government commissioned the Health Directorate to identify the need for LIS1 medical settings in the health and care services in Norway. That survey was ready in January 2019, and there it said among other things. the directorate recommends that the number of options be increased by 200 in the long term. Only a few weeks later, the Center Party proposes to increase the number of options, in line with what is already being assessed in the department. There are many reasons why there is a need for increases, including: the pressure on the posts, and that these are now the entrance to further specialisation in the Norwegian healthcare service and future needs for medical specialists. A possible increase in the number of settings must be at the same time in line with the needs of health care and the possibilities we have to provide good guidance. But it is also such that there are several things that can help to increase capacity and penetration, among other things.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t more flexible adjustment for the number of LIS1 options the improvement of the use of residual sites; using multiple learning venues to convert LIS1 settings for non-LIS2, LIS3 or specialists The Executive Board itself recommends that the following actions be further distributed: may work as a general practitioner under guidance, with a right to social security suspension for up to one year shorter LIS1 cycles LIS1 will be included in the special course and the application procedure will be terminated the requirements for entering LIS2 and LIS3 will be lowered, primarily for foreign-level lizards; long-experienced children can complete the municipality before the hospital unit I therefore look forward to the government being able to assess this matter. This is an important theme that requires a thorough analysis before a set of actions takes place.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e1903	It is a public responsibility to ensure that enough health professionals are deployed to meet the needs of society. Today, there will be too few laymen in Norway. There will be too few medical specialists in Norway. At the same time, new outlets are queued for LIS1 settings. According to the Health Directorate, it was over 800 people in the spring of 2018, over 60 pst. by all applicants, who have been denied the application for a LIS1 option. In the period 2013–2017, a total of 35 psts were made. of the approximately 6,000 approved new specialist positions given to foreign citizens. At present, LIS1 settings are a bottleneck in the education system and prevent specialisation both in hospitals and in general medicine, and therefore the fixed medical system. The Health Directorate has now recommended the creation of 200 new LIS1 settings. It is justified that there is a need for more medical specialists in hospitals, that the local health service has been given new tasks, that more needs to be done, that the doctors need more normal working hours, that hospital equipment and equipment should be better exploited and that waiting lists should be reduced. The long queue of LIS1 settings has already created bad ringing effects. Trustfully informed that several hospitals through informal channels offer shorter engagement through so-called postal settings. Such an exposure is filled by newcomers waiting to start a LIS1 service. The job tasks may be to enter an income log or other tasks that are normally performed by a LIS doctor, but without counting. It is difficult to defend the fact that these tasks in public health services are not to be carried out under order conditions. The centre party believes that this gives a very low level of worker protection, and that such temporary settings should actually be lifted in public hospitals. Norwegian educational institutions do not adequately train with any of the themselves, with the current low number of LIS1 settings. If health services are based on the fact that many future corpses are to be hatched in other countries, a signal is also sent that it is desirable for many to study medicine abroad. At the same time, Norwegian authorities have no control over the number of study places in other countries or how many Norwegian students to study outside Norway. Thus, it is the newly-exploited who themselves must take the risk of standing without a job after education. This is to increase the number of study places in medicine at Norwegian learning places. In order to achieve this in practice, it is quite necessary to use both the local hospital and the community health services as practical places to a much greater extent than today. More use of decentralised education will also be able to strengthen recruitment to districts and general medicine in the long term. I believe that today's government has shown little willingness to see medical specialisation and capacity in basic training in conjunction with the need for specialists both in hospitals and in the municipal health service. Among others, State Secretary Anne Grethe Erlandsen of Dagens Medisin in 2016 quoted that it is not the government’s responsibility to ‘adapt the number of posts to the number of doctors who want and apply for these posts at any time.’ The government wrote in the government platform that they would increase the number of LIS1 settings, but there is still a lack of an overarching plan and a political goal for this work. The center party thinks that we need to connect some of the new LIS1 settings to ALIS settings, i.e. general practitioners in specialisation. This is also proposed by the Association of Young Doctors. This is how a newly-trained doctor can apply to ALIS, where LIS1 is integrated as the first part. This is a very good idea, I thought. Such things as wanting to go to general medicine can ensure that the supplementation ratio is conservative. We suggest that 200 new LIS1 settings be created as soon as possible, and that we get an overview of the scope of so-called postal workers in hospitals. We also ask for a long-term escalation plan to increase the number of places of study in basic medical training, so that the training capacity is better suited to the need for nurseries in the healthcare system. We look forward to the report of the Grimstad Committee, which is about solutions to strengthen the educational capacity of the Norwegian League.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e1916	The representative proposal addresses several important questions about the future needs of medical specialists and that training of specialists must respond to the needs of health and care services. The concrete proposals are primarily about LIS1 positions for newly trained doctors and the capacity. This is a complex area, and I will, in addition to my letter of reply, say something about the matter. The need for medical specialists in both hospitals and municipal health and care services is high and will be increasing, especially in some specialities. Many places are already experiencing recruitment challenges. In parts of the country, there is also a lack of access within some hospital specialities. The number of LIS1 positions for newly trained doctors who are now the entrance to further specialisation is regulated and limited to 950 posts per year. This is a relatively high number. At the same time, there is competition for the positions announced, because the number of fully trained doctors who want to specialise in Norwegian healthcare is much higher. This is well-known. Just the pressure on the positions and the need for future medical specialists was central to me when I gave the assignment to the Health Directorate to re-examine the need for this type of job. In my assignment, I asked the Health Directorate to make assessments of the need for jobs, taking into account the needs of the services and the capacity to receive and provide good guidance. The proposal for a significant increase in capacity is now under consideration, both in terms of volume and other measures proposed, which can help to strengthen capacity and increase its implementation. The Government will increase the number of LIS1 positions. We've also made that clear in the new government platform. At the same time, this must be done in a sustainable way. Educational capacity in medicine falls within the responsibility of the Minister of Research and Higher Education and will, of course, be a topic of dialogue between us. Access to games in Norway is good, and that's a good thing. We closely follow developments both in the medical market and among medical specialists in the large and LIS1 positions, in particular. Last week, new projections were presented by the SSB, which the Ministry of Health and Health had ordered in connection with our work on a new national health and hospital plan. These highlight future needs, including in the case of doctors. We will be better equipped to meet the needs of the future for medical labour in Norway through this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e1929	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e1934	The association of younger doctors estimates that with today's number of LIS1 positions, 5,188 trained doctors will stand without LIS1 in 2045. The number of LIS1 positions is a bottleneck in the current medical education and specialisation cycle. What is the Minister of Health's response to the young doctors on the way into health care?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e1939	My answer is that we have asked the Health Directorate to review the need for the number of LIS1 positions. A few years ago, they did this and recommended that I reduce the number of LIS1 positions. I didn't think that was a good advice – that's why I didn't follow it either. So I asked them to review this again, and now they have made a recommendation to increase. It is also in line with the government platform. But I would like to stress that the dimensioning of LIS1 positions will be based on the needs of the service. We have no opportunity or desire to regulate what young people are learning, and that they travel to other countries and train as doctors. That's not what could be the scale of the dimensioning here. The number must be regulated by the needs of the healthcare system.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e1945	A question that also relates to LIS1 and how these jobs are distributed to the applicants concerned: we have been contacted with concerns about lack of transparency related to the allocation of LIS1 positions. It is claimed that knowledge and friendship play a part in the process. Is the Council familiar with the same concerns, and what will he possibly do to ensure transparency and fair recruitment to the LIS1 positions that are actually available to today's young doctors?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e1950	After all, we have now moved to an application-based scheme, which means that you have to apply for this type of job, as in other jobs. If one of them feels that he has been unfairly treated, a complaint must be made about it in the specific cases. But of course, when you have an application-based scheme, a student like that will. have worked in a hospital during vacations, and have had the opportunity to show their personality and commitment, probably have greater opportunities than one who has not. This is also the case in the labour market. I think that is basically not a negative thing, because it also contributes to e.g. students who have an additional commitment have an additional opportunity to have such positions. However, if it is unfair, almost every single complaint must be made, as one does in respect of other positions an applicant.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e1955	In December, the National Council of the Association of Young Doctors adopted a statement stating that the needs of health professionals for medical work are increasingly being met by subordinates who are not in specialisation. These are options that are not legal vicariate, which do not contribute to the training of specialists, and licensors often lack structured guidance and supervision. The Minister of Health, in reply to the Committee, said that the Ministry does not have an overview of the extent of the use of such postal services in hospitals. My question is whether the Council of State in general is not concerned if it is now that one does not have tidy hospital admissions, if he does not fear that such a use of temporary involvement to cover the permanent needs of hospitals for labour is the wrong way to go, and if he wants to take the initiative to investigate this matter a little more thoroughly.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e1962	I'm familiar with this concern. This is not a static size, and I have also stated this in my reply letter to Stortinget, although the studies that have been done show that this has a modest amount. There are different reasons, which may be good, for this type of scheme when hospitals put it into use, but it is not such that this should be a substitute for having LIS1 positions or taking responsibility for education and guidance. There will be situations where this will be a solution that hospitals will have to implement, but the studies we have conducted show that this is of relatively modest scale.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e1969	There's another signal we get from trustees for the Younger Doctors' Association: that this is a bigger problem than one is willing to admit, and that there's an increasing problem. And it doesn't light up properly. It happens through informal channels, and it can be characterised as a medical job, it can be ‘income’ – that is, completely different. I had hoped that the Minister of Health could have been more clear that one should look at this and get a system. Some also launch the bypass LIS0 to at least get it into order forms. Is LIS0 something that the Council of State may be positive to look at?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e1976	We have a continuous dialogue with the Legeforening on these kinds of questions, and I also have regular meetings with the trustees. We're all open to discussing this if problems arise, or if you have suggestions for other solutions. It's not that we're not open to it, but I almost have to give a feedback based on what I'm familiar with, related to the scope as it is now. If that's how the Lege Association or the trustees have different views on this, my door is always open to discuss it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e1981	I have one last question about increasing the number of study places in Norway for medical students. A selection is set to report and show how this can happen. My question is whether the state council will wait for the report to the selection before an extension, or whether the extension of the study places will take place independently of the report to the selection. There is a suggestion in the settings dialog that will be put to the vote, to give you a step-by-step plan. It is in a way that can be expected with a plural government – but how will the government follow up the report to the selection when it arrives?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e1988	It is a question that the Minister of Research and Higher Education must answer. She is responsible for those places of study, although of course this is also part of the budgetary discussion that the entire government is taking. It is a question we have to get back to in the budget, but from the Ministry of Health and Health we are of course involved in the work that is being carried out in connection with the investigation, and are in contact with the professional environments associated with it. There are a variety of models to increase capacity in Norway, which is very interesting, and which are important for healthcare to be involved in influencing solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e1993	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e2000	Following a change to the application-based rotational medical system, a growing line of newly trained doctors has become the mandatory first specialisation position, LIS1. According to the Health Directorate, 824 people were denied their applications to LIS1 positions last spring, while being trained for a few medical specialists in Norway. During the period 2013–2017, the entire period was 35 pst. by the approvals of new medical specialists granted to foreign nationals, according to the Medical Association. Even general practitioners will have too few of us in the future, and this takes the Center Party seriously. Norwegian educational institutions train too few doctors with today's level of LIS1 positions. With more jobs, the shortage is even greater. The need for specialists, specialisation positions and educational capacity needs to be seen in the context and followed up much more closely than is currently the case. We have to increase the number of study places in medicine. In addition to education at university hospitals, it is absolutely necessary to make more use of both local and municipal health services. We also know that decentralised education contributes to local recruitment. We see that today's educational capacity, both in basic education and in the specialisation process, does not meet the long-term need for specialists. We can't afford to go to international recruitment forever. The centre party is concerned that the government does not take seriously the future manning crisis in the specialist health service and in health care as a whole. Measures such as more full-time jobs, more student placements, LIS1 positions and apprenticeships are all important to ensure adequate health professionals in the coming years. We need to have several new LIS1 positions, in line with the need – and the recommendations – and we need to present a long-term escalation plan to increase the number of Norwegian primary education places in medicine, so that the educational capacity corresponds to the needs of healthcare. The government proposes – all of a sudden – 100 new study places in the revised state budget today, but does not have the ability to place them. The centre party believes that securing more Norwegian doctors is the right investment, both for our citizens, for those ambitious students who want medicine as a professional remedy, and for the professional environments. There is a need for more medical specialists in hospitals, for more public health services, for more staff to be required, for doctors to need more normal working hours, for hospital equipment and equipment to be better used, and for waiting lists to be reduced.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e2015	Why don't we train more doctors? I got the question at home in Nordland, and I got the answer. Yeah, why don't we? Therefore, it was a pleasure to make a proposal for a long-term escalation plan in order to increase the number of Norwegian primary education places in medicine, so that educational capacity is better suited to the needs of healthcare professionals. This, in fact, means the people's need for good health care and the doctors' need for more normal working hours. We need regulation and stability in fixed positions in the north, and we need to ensure that new permanents get a quality and effective specialisation course in general medicine. In addition, we need to develop the role and competence of municipalities as promoters of specialist medical training in general medicine and make municipalities more attractive as employers. We need to dimension specialist training in line with the need. The proposal of the centre party in this matter was a procedure for meeting this need. We need the doctors, the nurses and the health workers. Norway has lacked both specialists and nurses over time. This is challenging for municipalities, healthcare companies and patients. Many people find it difficult to communicate with foreign doctors or nurses who are poor in Norwegian. In addition, extensive use of temporary agencies and temporary workers leads to increased costs for health businesses and for municipalities, which should have been used for good services to people. The Health Directorate's statistics show that we train too few doctors in Norway. The figures show that there is a need for a medical education commitment, and we need to use both local and municipal health services to make this promise. I would like the government and Minister Höie to take a force and lift as high as the Central Party wants to promise in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e2031	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e2047	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that up to five lines of response be given to posts by members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e2056	The Committee is dealing with two proposals for representatives, both of which deal with the provision of health services to the health business in More and Romesdal. These are representatives from the Senterpartiet and SV. A total of eight proposals are being promoted, mainly to halt the aggregation of food supplies in Kristiansund and Molde, and to stop cutting in the day-to-day treatment of Lake Holt DPS. Further operation of the rehabilitation offer at Aure and Mork is proposed. There is also a request for a case to the Stortinget where the consequences of saving about 500 million to health businesses. kr annually in order to realise the construction of a new hospital on Health, is made visible. I expect the parties that have promoted these proposals to explain them in more detail. The Health Minister’s letter points out that the health business boards Health Møre and Romesdal and Health Mid-Norway are responsible for the establishment of the budgets and must also assess the measures and the adequacy of the measures proposed. It is also stressed that the Minister of Health suggests that migration and action should be undertaken in dialogue with the users and employees and municipalities concerned. As regards the dialogue with the municipalities of Northern Ireland, the rapporteurs argued that a merger of the food departments of Kristiansund and Molde would be invalid, and reference was made to the request decision 750 from 24 May 2018, where ‘The government is asking the Government to ensure safe and future-oriented birth care by ensuring the food institutions of the day’. The Health Minister replied that a combination of food supplies before a new hospital is completed is not a breach of the Stortingen’s request decision, but stresses that any change in the food supply should not weaken the overall food supply. The Committee, like the proposers in both of these cases, is committed to the provision of good and equivalent services to all those who need it, irrespective of their place of residence. Undertakings are also obliged to follow national health policies. As regards the Mork and Aure rehabilitation offer, the proposers believe that cutting bed capacity in specialised rehabilitation is contrary to the governance requirements of the 2019 mission paper that no changes to the specialist health service that will affect the municipalities should take place before the municipalities are able to handle the new tasks. After the board meeting in Health More and Romesdal on 27 March this year, it is well the proposal to merge the food departments in Kristiansund and Molde, which have had the strongest reactions, even though the rehabilitation offer in Mork and Aure has also been the subject of attention and discussion. So this case has evolved in close proximity from day to day since this board meeting. The merger of the maternity wards has led to the termination of the interaction agreement with the health business by several North-Møre municipalities. There's a cage guerrilla in place. The Vice-Chair of the Management Board chose to resign. The managing director was asked to leave. The same managing director announced that he would advise the board to postpone the assembly of food offerings at the board meeting to be held tomorrow, 15 May. It is important to be told that as long as one maintains the business model as it exists, it is the board of Health More and Romesdal who have to decide on the measures. It is also this board that is responsible for getting the financial situation under control, and it is the board that must ensure that responsibility for good and sound services to the population is still fulfilled, even after the board meeting to be held tomorrow. But I'm recording that the Constituent Director of Health Møre and Romsdal in his suspension of tomorrow's board meeting is asking for a postponement of the merger of the maternity wards in Kristiansund and Molde. For my part, I would say that I think it is a wise recommendation, seen in the light of the turmoil that the March Decision has created. I understand that the measures proposed created concern and were discussed by both health companies and municipalities, because both health companies and municipalities have a common responsibility to provide good health services to the population. I also expect that in the case of the contractual arrangements that have been cancelled, the health company will sit down with the municipalities concerned and set up new contracts before the old ones go out. The large picture is now that Norway is among the countries in the world in which it is safest to feed. Fewer women and children are still injured during birth. We have made a significant increase in the number of midwives in the municipalities, and we have strengthened the health stations. Women are more satisfied with birth and maternity care in 2017 than in 2011. But nevertheless, it is always wise to listen to the concerns that come when we have a thing like that from More and Romesdal. Norway needs more children," said Erna Solberg. Then, as responsible politicians, we must also ensure that women throughout the country feel safe.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e2077	This matter, or these matters, is that the tight budgetary framework of health businesses leads to cuts in the health supply in More and Romesdal. The government has not wanted to go away from the ABE reform. It has not helped to strengthen our common health care with enough funds. The Minister of Health is running a chronic underfunding of our common health service. In More and Romesdal, psychiatry and rehabilitation are to be cut, they have created uncertainty about food supply, and they want to put cleaners out to private to save money. In the Workers' Party's alternative budget, we have a priority of 1.65 billion. kr more to the hospitals. That would have led to $54 million. kr more for Health Møre and Romesdal health companies. Chronic underfunding of our common health service brings consequences. What we see is that healthcare companies cut down on the rehabilitation offer and in psychiatry – offers that may in the long run be the responsibilities of municipalities or can be solved in cooperation between municipalities and health businesses, but they cut before a municipal offer is built up, and the situation across the country is that it is particularly cut in rehabilitation sites. The Health Minister says that he has introduced the golden rule in the hospitals, that psychiatry should be given priority. It's measured in cost growth, and we see that the cuts in Lake Holt DPS are a cost cut that is not followed up by a corresponding growth in other parts of the service, at other district psychiatric centers. Therefore, the cut is also contrary to the company’s priorities for prioritisation of the DPSs. In order to save money, the entity has decided to outsource cleanness, which, according to its own risk and vulnerability analysis, will result in lower levels of infection protection and reduced preparedness. In spite of the fact that health businesses are, for the rest, away from such a type of clean-up organisation, the government has provided financial incentives to outsource these types of services through the neutral VAT system. We in the opposition voted against introducing neutral VAT because we believe that tasks such as cleaning and canteening are of critical importance for hospital operations and patient services. All women in Norway should have a food supply where they can feed safely. The size has decided that we should have a safe food supply that is decentralised and differentiated. Because our country is far, and people live there. Some live on islands, and some live in cities. The population of Kristiansund and North Moravia are at risk of losing the maternity ward until the condition for an overall food supply is in place. Joining the maternity wards now will be a breach of promise by Bent Höie and a betrayal of the inhabitants of Kristiansund and on the North Sea. The business model provides opportunities for political governance, but who is the Minister of Health is also of great importance. Hie has so far been hiding behind the health business model in this case. But today he has opened up to amend the protocol following the decision of the Board of Directors, in line with the Labour Party's proposal in this matter. We hope the Council of State will consider that when he sees what his company is doing. Although it has been decided that the maternity wards in Kristiansund and Molde will be brought together in a common hospital, it is actually quite another matter to lay down the maternity ward in Kristiansund several years before the joint hospital is completed, and to oblige all birthers in these years to travel all the way to Molde, not least when we know that transport time has a clear connection with complications and the need for help. The closure of food supplies will lead to a loss of competence and risk for the birth, because if you have changed the key, it is also more difficult to recruit. With that, I will address the proposals that the Workers' Party is involved in.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e2098	The representative of Mr Ingvild Kjerkol has made the proposals to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e2103	The organisation of food offers creates a great deal of commitment across the country. That's understandable. Pregnant women are in a very vulnerable situation, and although a birth is something that happens in a hospital every day, several times a day, it is a unique event in the lives of those who experience it. Then you have to feel safe in that situation. We have respect and understanding for that. Norway is one of the countries in the world where birth is safest. That's still the way it should be. In fact, women were more satisfied with birth and maternity care in 2017 than they were in 2011. So it's going to go forward. And fewer and fewer women and children are injured during birth. In other words, it is a positive development that shows that birth is getting safer and safer. In Norway, there is a political majority across the right and left to organise specialist health services, i.e. hospitals and ambulances, in their own healthcare companies. The idea is that policy-makers grant money and put overall leadership for money use, while health businesses should be managed on the basis of health-care assessments within the framework set by the Stortinget. In the past, we had a model where the management of hospitals was to the county council. Then it was the different county councils that were responsible. This gave a very poor relationship in the hospital service in Norway, and little control. After the hospital reform, we treat several patients, have lower waiting times and higher quality. The important thing is just as full that patients are now more satisfied with the offer they get than they were before. We therefore know that any proposal to take hospitals back to public administration will lead to responsibilities powdering and thus weaken patients’ health services. This is the model we have chosen to follow, and that in practice means that health companies are the ones to make these decisions, not the politicians. There is no ongoing centralisation of food supply in Norway, but some small feeding rooms have been closed down in recent years due to declining birth rates. National health and hospital plans state that the distribution of smaller food departments and feeding rooms must ensure proximity to food supply, even outside the large women’s clinics. The food departments in Molde and Kristiansund have been operating for many years with major difficulties in recruiting and stabilising the medical and midwifery groups. This has been a heavy burden on employees and has led to extensive temporary use and varying quality of the offer given to patients. Since 2005, an overall professional environment in North-Møre and Romesdal have seen the aggregation of food departments as the only sustainable development in the field of science. The public quality indicators also show that the quality of the supply of births in Molde and Kristiansund is too variable. This will improve the professional quality of the birth offer given to women. It is also worth mentioning that under today's government there are two food departments, Odda and Lake Mosque. When the centre party was in government, both Rjukan, Steigen, Orkdal, Nordfjord, Valdres and Lærdal were laid down. The difference is that today's government has at the same time increased the midwife's capacity in the municipalities by almost 50 pst. since we took over. Preliminary SSB figures show that positive developments continued in 2018. This year we've earmarked $40 million. kr to further reinforce this. From 1 January we also reintroduced the legal requirement for midwifery competence in the municipalities, which the red-green government removed in its time. It is safe to feed in Norway, and it should always be. Among other things, the key to ensuring safety for the unborn is: good preparedness at local level, accompanying services for those with a long route and close cooperation with the ambulance service. Tomorrow is the new board meeting in Health More and Romesdal. There is a proposal for a decision to postpone the merger of the food departments in Kristiansund and Molde. It might look like they've listened to the inhabitants, and I'll boast of the commitment the bulwark has shown in this matter. It shows that it pays to get involved. Now, Stortinget is not going to intervene with health companies in the way the representatives here put forward. Nevertheless, it is important to stress that the health care provider has received very clear signals about the process further, and they have to take over the signals locally. We'll see if they do, tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e2128	Let's be honest and say that this matter is now being debated in Stortinget because Health Møre and Romsdal have not done their job. The health company has provided red figures, has not managed the economy, and finally has some idea that they will change this by cutting the food supply in Kristiansund earlier than planned. I think there's a decision many in the health company are regretting today. Of course, cutting down a food supply in this way has led to great dissatisfaction and uprisings among the population in Northern Ireland. The trust in the hospital has been tested. The cooperation between municipalities and hospitals has been tested. The new rapporteur has announced the termination of all agreements with Health More and Romesdal if they move the maternity ward from Kristiansund now. I record that the director of Health Møre and Romsdal had to leave. We believe that in the Progress Party that was entirely in place. The party of progress is also pleased that Health Møre and Romsdal have made sense, and that the closure of the Kristiansund maternity ward is now awaited. The Progress Party has been critical of how Health More and Romesdal have carried out this process. Leaving the maternity ward in Kristiansund four years before a new hospital is ready is, in our view, very unfortunate. It is therefore important and necessary that the healthcare company has now turned around, and we expect Kristiansund as a minimum to keep the current maternity ward until the new hospital is in place. This process has been inexhaustible all along. Changes in the board of directors have now been absolutely necessary, and I expect the new management of the health company to clean up, balance the budgets, protect the emergency and food supply and involve the municipalities concerned. Norway is a long-range country, and there are a number of conflicting interests in how we generally organise our food supply. Of course, on the one hand, it is important to have a short way to the maternity ward, but in cases where serious complications occur during childbirth, it is extremely important that staffing, competence and equipment are specialised enough to save both mother and child. Hero-day staffing with specialists and equipment is simply not possible to combine with short travel distances throughout the country. In general, it is difficult to assess just where to go between specialisation and proximity. Former governments have also had the same dilemmas and challenges we see today. In spite of this, we see that the opposition is now becoming high and dark. The centre party, SV and the Workers' Party laid down six birth halls and wards around the country the last time they were in government. I think the band of Battle Violence Vedum must have been on the clean side when the Senterpartiet shut down the food department at Orkdal in 2012. Otherwise, we see that the centre party is unfortunately at the bottom of the priority of pregnant and birthing in the municipalities, where they actually have power. 45 out of 100 municipalities with the Senterpart rapporteur do not have midwife offers at all. Of course, we can't sit and look at the unfortunate development, so the government is now adding 57.8 million. kr on the table to strengthen the midwife service in the municipalities of the country, especially in those municipalities where the Central Party has not prioritised it. We have thus provided almost a double of the number of midwives in the municipalities from 2013. This is, however, more than party politics. We have to stick together to find the best solutions that provide the best food supply for Norwegian women. In order to achieve this, it is essential that the closure of the maternity ward in Kristiansund be stopped before a good alternative is in place. I am pleased that Norwegian women have engaged themselves, made trouble and pressure. The exposure has given results. Finally, I would like to make it clear that the government has now taken action to ensure that healthcare companies get better loan conditions. In the past, our hospitals had to finance with artificially poor conditions, which meant that the funds that could have gone to patient treatment were tied up in loans. In More and Romesdal alone, our changes in debt financing and terms and conditions will increase the scope of action to 30 million. kr, the money that can now be used, among others. to ensure a good supply of food in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e2145	Today, demonstrators gathered outside the Storting protested that the food departments in Kristiansund should be shut down. The guerrilla has had nearly 70,000 followers in social media. Women protest because they are afraid to lose a safe food supply near where they live. By shutting down the maternity ward in Kristiansund and sending them to birth to Molde, women who are born on Smøla, in Halsa and in Aure up to three hours' journey, and it's summertime. An important quality of our public health services is trust – trust that we get help where we live, when we need it, like when we're giving birth to children, a public health service that's there for us. This trust is under pressure from a government — and their health professionals — who are so concerned about costs that they hardly see the value of anything. Health Møre and Romsdal have seen an annual savings of half a billion dollars after three years to afford to invest in a new hospital. This is why we are now seeing the cut proposals. This shows that this way of financing Norwegian hospitals is wrong. This shows that today's way of organising and managing hospitals is wrong. This shows that we do not take the birthing women and their children seriously. It is the most vulnerable who have to pay the highest price for health enterprise management and poor health care economy. Health Møre and Romsdal are in a precarious economic situation. The cut suggestions we're currently seeing are just starting. How can the Storting accept what is happening? It's incomprehensible. The fact that the government party does not find it worth writing a single sentence, not one word about its view of the matter in the setting, is short and well arrogant. It's good we have a bundle of guerrillas that still get them on the track. Health Møre and Romsdal’s own risk and vulnerability analysis have concluded that there is an unacceptable risk in the closure of food departments. However, on 27 March the Board of Directors decided to close the Kristiansund maternity ward from August 2019. In fact, the promise to strengthen the follow-up services and emergency services is not a belief, because it has to be saved there as well. Process has been characterised by undocumented claims and error information. The head of clinic has claimed that today’s maternity ward must be closed several times a year because of staff shortages. This is not true. The closure of the maternity wards in Kristiansund in front of Molde was based on differences in quality. That's not true. The Health Minister has claimed that several births will travel to other health care agencies if one does not merge the two maternity wards, but where does he take it from? The decision to shut down the food supply was made only for the health care company to save money, and it must be honest and say. It is not just the food supply that is at risk in Health More and Romesdal. The Management Board has decided to close the daily supply at DPS Seeholt. This is not the case in the Golden Rule which states that health professionals should prioritise mental health protection more than somatic and that district psychiatric centres should be given priority in the field of mental health protection. The board of Health Møre and Romesdal have also suggested laying down rehabilitation centres in Aure and Mork already from the fall. This was due to the fact that we are in the middle of a national rehabilitation and rehabilitation plan, and that the Minister of Health’s mission document states that health care providers should not make any changes to the municipalities until the municipalities are able to handle the new tasks. In addition, there will be outsourcing of sanitation, cut-off time and other efficiencies in the healthcare establishment. It's a warning crisis we're now witnessing in More and Romesdal. The center party wrote about this already when an approved loan request. The transformations in the patient supply are extensive, so we're just seeing the beginning. Realisation of the common hospital is far from economically clear. The Central Party has had a position that the food departments in Kristiansund will also be needed in the future. Today, we propose that a non-approve of the closure of the Kristiansund Food Department and that any future changes in food supply and preparedness should be submitted to the Stortinget, cf. Section 30 of the health insurance law. We also propose to maintain daily treatment at Lake Holt, further ensure the operation of the rehabilitation facility at Aure and Mork and stop outsourcing of the sanitation services. We also make two suggestions in the Chamber today, to which I come back in my next post. With this, I'm making the proposals that the Central Party has with the Socialist Left Party, and the ones that we have alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e2170	Then the representative Kjersti Toppe has drawn up the proposals she made.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e2175	The situation at the maternity ward in Kristiansund was such that it was finally calm and acceptable for where the hospital was to be located, but suddenly the situation became alarmed because one was missing from a 2014 decision that was agreed upon. Poor governance led to an escalated level of conflict. Professional environments have been overrun by miscalculations and misassessments and lack of use of proper quality indicators. They have experienced that they have not been properly involved in the processes, and they have been told that they are doing a bad job. It can't be a good experience for a professional standing on every single day. I have received all the signals in this matter, from a to a, including the latest signals both from the health company and from the health minister, but I am still concerned about the situation. Firstly, I have noticed that in response to the proposal, the Minister of Health did not consider the merging of the maternity wards until the new hospital was completed, as a breach of the Stortingen request decision. Then I also read that the health minister stressed that any change in the food supply should not weaken the overall food supply. We agree with that, but it is precisely the last thing that has happened in this case. That is what happens when there is exemplary poor management at different levels, when the Minister of Health has not intervened to steer an untidy process. For us, this is not just about a single matter, but it is also about a larger and more principled debate. For us, the health business model is about, the undemocratic about the model, and the economic model that underlies, where we have to save on operations, which goes beyond patients, in order to secure equity for investments. For us, this is a combination of cut policy and a situation that is out of control in terms of political governance. It is alarming when you look at the uncertainty this has created. I'm still worried, because any closure will result in that birthing women get a longer journey without getting ready. Therefore, we propose today that all possible changes to the hospital structure and the emergency situation be presented to the Stortinget. That's all I think will do that people out there, people who have engaged in this matter, will be safe. So I would recommend that we vote in favour of the proposal that exists from the Central Party and the SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e2193	In the series of opposition representatives in areas where government parties are either already in work or have helped to clean up, we have now come – in double monn – to the situation related to the Kristiansund Food Department. I want to start by saying that the process of merging the maternity wards in Molde and Kristiansund, in the view of the Left, has been poorly planned and poorly managed by the health company. The proposal came at the worst possible time. The process of setting up the new joint North-Møre Hospital and Romesdal has been exciting. The position on Health has been chosen after a long investigation, a lot of fighting and political towing. It has been a burden for a people who deserve better, the battle was just about to take place when the merger proposal was put on the table. I understand the rapporteurs of the Orkidé Regional Council, I understand the people, and I greatly admire the protests of the Bunadsgerilja. It has been consistently supported by the Left in the region. Security of birth is a topic that affects all of us. It affects not only women themselves, but entire families and communities. It's our job as politicians to build that security as solid as possible. Then it's a fact that birth security is a function with several factors, especially solid environments and travel distances, as the woman clinic manager at St. Olav's hospital gave a striking characteristic of the Political Quarter in the NRK today early. Finding the right balance between distance and hard-working professionalism has been at the heart of the health debate in many places in the country and has had to be handled by politicians from all over our political spectrum. Yes, I believe that the internal schooling in the Central Party must have failed in a historical dimension when I read the current proposal for a representative. The keyword is Nordfjord. Norway is a country with a small population and a large distance. We can never get away from that. If we spread professionalism to many geographical areas, we risk destroying good offers and thinning out the professional environment. As the clinic’s director described it, even the birthers will not have an offer that is too fragmented and fragmented, even though the food supply is close. This is obviously a dilemma. The solution of the left is to increase primary health provision, to ensure a better transport system and, more generally, to create safe services in the vicinity of where people live, in combination with building one of the world’s most competent health services for birth. In More and Romesdal this will say Health, which I hope we can now get ahead in the construction of. We are particularly excited about the government's commitment to midwives, health stations and a general strengthening of the local economy. The period from 2013 to now has been a continuous uphill journey for the recruitment of the midwives. I think we should look for a long time for a profession that has experienced a corresponding increase. This is noticed in the municipalities. But first of all, this is noticed among the pregnant and the birthing. I am happy today on behalf of the many people who have dressed up and taken the trip to the capital to express their concern about the food supply in More and Romesdal, and who have been far on the way to getting an impact on their demands. I am pleased that the further process is now going to be based on a more solid foundation, with better management, and that the time until the new hospital is completed will be used to create a better balance between the health service in Molde and Kristiansund, and that Health Mid-Norway will have a more central role in this process. So I'm glad that Mork and Aure now seem to be put to rest. I was recently on a visit to Mork, and I said that I would need rehabilitation – and I do not care that anyone in the room thinks I need it – I would choose Mork. I'm on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e2214	To believe the bourgeois, is absolutely everything very well, and there is no reason that there should be some bandit guerrilla in our country – if everything is as good as the Left, Christian People's Party, the Advance Party and the Right says. But the message from the demonstrators outside the Storting today was very clear: they require the safety of children and mother, and they want the 'foot' where they live. They know that an increased risk is now planned. They know there's twice the risk of life-threatening complications with over one hour of travel. Now it could be over three hours of travel from Aure, Halsa and Smøla if you put down the maternity ward at the hospital in Kristiansund. They are not fooled by the soothing words of the bourgeois representatives of the Stortinget when they know what is actually at stake. The question is what is most important: the savings in these health businesses or the provision of health services to the population. The plan involves the merging of the maternity wards in Molde and Kristiansund, the closure of rehabilitation sites at Mork and Aure, the outsourcing of the cleaning services at Molde and Kristiansund hospitals and the closure of daily services at Lake Holt DPS. This is so serious for the population that the municipalities of Northern Ireland are withdrawing from the cooperation agreements they have had with health businesses. It's a signal a state council and a big one should take on the greatest seriousness, and not stand here and do self-crust. It may be tempting, everyone understands it, but it may be wise to listen to the people and take their concerns seriously. We know that the centralisation and closure of local hospitals has taken place to a large extent since the introduction of the business model, as the Labour Party, the Progress Party and the Right introduced in Norway. What is happening now is that hospitals have been removed from a political management model and transformed into legally independent enterprises according to the share law. There's a reason why Carl Ivar Hagen praised Stoltenberg's corporate model: it was taken out of the Progress Party's principal programme. They turn hospitals, the crown jewel of the welfare state, into something that looks like a company. Clearly, it sounds good in the ears of the Party of Advancement. However, the consequence of this is that hospitals are managed more according to the bottom line and less according to patients’ needs, so we have to cut the offer in order to save money to finance new hospital buildings. We in Red want to wind up the business model and get the hospitals back to popular governance, with a new law, which frees the hospital sector from corporate economic governance principles. We also see that compensation for VAT makes it profitable for hospitals to purchase external services. This is government support for more privatisation. If we prefer to remove the VAT, for which we go in, it will be less relevant to outsourcing cleaning in hospitals around the country. Now it's up to people to fight for their local hospital, their maternity ward, their emergency ward. Red will continue to cooperate with people's reactions, with trade unions, and with other stakeholders to call around the hospital services of the population. We know that, fortunately, protests are useful. We saw that when we tried to shut down the emergency department at Odda Hospital. Then Höie turned around and had to do the full retreat, and the same thing we're working to do with the maternity ward in Kristiansund. We hope that those in this room will listen to those who have chosen them, that they will listen more to the population and less to the directors of the health company boards. It should be obvious for all the parties in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e2233	Again, we have experienced that questions about hospital structure and the distribution of functions in Health Møre and Romesdal have created a broad and engaging debate. I have a great deal of understanding of that, because these are issues that are important to the population. Health Møre and Romsdal have had major economic challenges over a long time and have not been able to deliver results in line with budgets since 2011. It is a major challenge for a health business and something that has strengthened over time. It is essential that conversion processes are implemented with good anchoring and good processes with all concerned, both users, employees and municipalities. There is no conflict between good economic governance and control and good professional quality. On the contrary, we very often see that those of our hospitals who have good economic governance also often have good results in terms of patient safety, quality and waiting times. We're going to build a new North-Møre and Romesdal hospital, precisely because one believes that gathering these offers is better for the whole North-Møre and Romesdal population than continuing with two hospitals. However, there should also be a medical centre in Kristiansund, where specialist health services are to be provided. The Kristiansund and Molde environments are to be grouped in a new North-Møre and Romesdal hospital. It's also important, as I've said all along, that Health Møre and Romsdal have to prepare for such a situation and initiate processes of organizational development, so that the environments are interconnected and can work together from day one in a new hospital. It may also involve the collection of individual environments before being moved in. And to be quite clear, I believe that both hospitals must be used in such a work. It is clear from the development plan that the professional community has agreed since 2005 that food supply should be brought together, but they have not agreed where. The food supply is to be collected in a new hospital, and one must, of course, work together before that time. This will mean that some women in this area get a longer route and for those who get a journey of more than 90 minutes, there must be a good accompanying service in place. There has been a great deal of concern about this issue, and the new management has now proposed postponing this – that there will not be a merger of the two food departments in August, which the board has previously adopted. The board of Health Møre and Romesdal have their board meeting tomorrow and will deal with this matter. Of course, I want to follow up on what decisions someone is making, and also on how the matter is handled further. These kinds of questions are important for the population. It's not like anyone's trying to make it like, that hospitals in Norway are not politically controlled. They are, and they have also become very much of me as Minister of Health, where a number of these questions have just been raised on my table when I have seen that it has been necessary. The representative of Moxnes is trying in this discussion to blame for today's governance model, and that is what has led to more food supply being cut down. It falls on its own unreasonableness. The vast majority of food supply in Norway was dropped when it was direct management of state policies, so it is a claim that does not keep water. We have now presented a national health and hospital plan adopted by the Stortinget, which states that we should continue to have a decentralised food supply in Norway. The hospital map for Norway is a sign of the future in all areas other than Helgeland and the Inland, where a still has and will have a local process before drawing the final conclusion – there is no major centralisation of neither hospital nor food supply in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e2252	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e2257	On April 27, this year, we met the midwife Elisabeth Jørgenvåg. She's a member of the Nordmøre follow-up service. It's a very important service. The size has granted rights to all birthing women: if you live more than 90 minutes away from the supply of food, you have the right to have a midwife or a qualified birth assistant in the transport. Elisabeth Jørgenvåg has never been free, for only she covers the large geographical area of the North Moravia, with several permanent residents on the islands. This service is getting confused in 20 pst. of the municipalities of the country which have this service. The reason is a tight hospital budget. The midwifes' union has asked the Health Minister for answers to what is happening with the accompanying service across the country, and the director of Health Møre and Romsdal, who have now left, said that these are midwives we don't have. What will the Council of State do with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e2264	What we've done with it is get a formidable bet on midwives in the municipalities. I took over in a situation, after Minister of Health Jonas Gahr Støre, when there were only 280 midwives in Norwegian municipalities. This meant that each midwife had to handle an excessive number of births, and very many municipalities did not have this competence. Some of the last working party did in government was to send a greeting to the natives of Norway by removing the legal requirement of midwife competence in the municipalities – which we have now reintroduced. We have arranged for a close doubling of the number of midwives in the municipalities. Currently, 98 municipalities receive grants to hire several midwives. It was in 2010 that the Workers' Party transferred responsibility for the accompanying service from popular concern to health regions. It was the big change in this area. I take the letter we received from the Earthmothers' Union, in the greatest seriousness and will follow up on the question related to the quality of the follow-up service today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e2271	Is this Council's response to the women of Northern Moravia, that he has granted more money to municipal midwives in another part of the service, when they lack a safe follow-up service up to their food supply? The last place this follow-up service was in Goalself. There's also a long way to the food supply. The reason for not being able to finance this service and not recruit the required midwives is because of the hospital budgets for which Health Minister Bent Höie is responsible, not the municipal budgets, which finance the municipal midwife service. Is the answer to Elisabeth Jørgenvåg, who has never been free, who is on the night table with the phone, and to women who are born on the North Sea that this has been fixed by Bent Höie through grants to municipal midwives?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e2280	It is essential to have a strong midwife service in the municipality too in order to have a good follow-up service. It is often the same midwives who do this job, so it also helps to strengthen the number of midwives in municipalities. I am very clear that it should be a good follow-up service to birthers who have a long travel period. I also understand that this is one of the reasons why the management of Health More and Romesdal has recommended the board to make a different decision tomorrow than what they did earlier – precisely because they see that one has not been able to cooperate with the municipalities that is a prerequisite for ensuring a safe offer. These are some of the questions I'm going to follow closely in the development of the North Sea and Romesdal, precisely because making a change, there should be security that comes first, and it must be in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e2289	State Council Höie today answers yes to the question in the Claims of Time if he is willing to intervene if the board tomorrow does not adopt a time-limited postponement. In a letter to the Committee dated 18 March, Höie wrote that it is Health More and Romesdal that must assess whether it is right and appropriate to collect the environment before a new hospital is completed. He leans on the health care establishment's development plan, that it will be professionally demanding to keep the day's fight going until the hospital is finished, and that the maternity ward must be put together in good time, two years before a new hospital is in place. He also writes that a new hospital is being treated in the company meeting, and that a collection of food supply will not be a matter that requires a decision in the company meeting. My question is, how has the Council of State changed its mind so strongly during the treatment of this matter? And does he know that a hospital, no matter what happens tomorrow, will have to merge in good time, two years before a new hospital is in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e2296	What I'm responding to is whether it requires a corporate meeting that these two maternity wards merge, and it doesn't because it's already adopted in the corporate meeting, by me, that we should establish a common hospital for the North-Møre and Romesdal. But that doesn't preclude me from intervening in decisions taken by the board of Health Møre and Romesdal, if I think they're not right. Much of the assumption for the last decision made by the Board of Directors to merge these two birth departments in August this year has changed since the Board of Directors made that decision, and it also sees one as the reason why the management of Health Møre and Romsdal are now making a different decision. I will, of course, follow what the board does tomorrow. What I responded to at the time is that I do not exclude that I can intervene in this matter if I believe Health Møre and Romsdal handle it in a way that is not correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e2305	The bow guerrilla's front line has frightened Right – thank you. The centre party is happy. The Council of State tells the media today that to the seventh and last, patient safety is his responsibility. He goes on to say that if there is too much uncertainty for patients in the North Sea, he has the ‘possibilities to intervene’. In the past, one could not intervene. Now one can intervene. The council says that things have happened. No, nothing has happened – except that it has become an opinion against the government. The Council of State says that he cannot intervene, according to the Health Business Act § 30. How does the Council of State actually intervene in such matters? Blonkes it? Smiles it? Is that talking underhand? There's a need for publicity now.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e2315	If the representative has ever heard that I have said that I cannot intervene, he has heard wrong. So the whole premise for this question is wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e2320	I feel that the Council of State has defended the insolent process in the past, for example. in response to a question that I asked, pointing out that the last decision was not contrary to the corporate decision in 2014, nor was it contrary to the Storing Decision on safe and forward-looking maternity care. But I wonder, does the Council of State still believe that the process that has been has been orderly?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e2325	What I have said before is quite correct: a merger of the two food departments will not conflict with what has been agreed at the corporate meeting, namely that one should build a common hospital for the North-Møre and Romesdal. Nor will it be contrary to the leaders of the Stortinget who are at national health and hospital level. But that doesn't mean I don't have the opportunity to intervene if I think a board is making decisions that aren't for the benefit of patients in major, serious cases. Here one has to distinguish between seeing that something is contrary to previous decisions, and my ability as Minister of Health to intervene. There are two different questions. I believe that everyone who has followed the debate following the decision of the Board of Directors agrees that this matter has not been handled in a good way. I also feel that the management of Health Møre and Romsdal have confirmed this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e2332	Replicate cord shift complete. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e2339	The issue we are debating today is about the food supply in Kristiansund, but the bunadsgerilja has ensured an commitment to the food supply throughout the country. In many other parts of the country, women are probably most concerned about the distance to the food supply and whether you reach it in time. Here in Oslo and Akershus, we have hospitals so close and so close that there may not be so many people who are concerned about the distance, but we might be more concerned about whether we can fit in. Where do we end up giving birth? We women tend to talk a lot about our births. It could be a nice debriefing after the experience you've been through. Should single stories form the basis for politics? Not necessarily, but the sum of all the stories we hear, it's still worth taking with us. I've had four children myself, and I'm going to spare you for my birth stories, but I still want to tell you about one of the feedback I've received about the food supply here in my neighborhood, and I quote: "I called Ullevål because I was ready to give birth. [[!]] Then I was told that it was full there. They would call me back to tell me where there could be room for me. Then I was told that there was a lot of work at Aarhus and the Reich too, and that I had to get to Bærum Hospital. There was the free space. Then I choked and cried: I don't know where Bærum hospital is! Then I received an ambulance. I was about to give birth in the ambulance, but I reached to Bærum in time. They were very good there, that is, but I should have liked to be stressed in front of me." It's 2019, but still women are worried about whether there's room in the hostel – or the health company, as we call it now. The Labour Party will strengthen the hospital economy and we will strengthen the food supply. It is a political responsibility to ensure that hospitals have good enough framework conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e2353	First, I want to pay tribute to the bulwark guerrilla, which clearly expresses its opinion on what is happening – without going into the trench or losing the smile. We've had demonstrations in Eidsvoll's place that have been far more negative and demonstrative than what we've seen today. And I have to say that the lining guerrilla makes an impression. A great thank you to you and Live Nordmøre for the commitment and the time you spend on this – to both participate in the debate in the media, travel here to Oslo to influence and iron bow shirts and last so many hours in fit comfortable shoes. Secondly, there's hardly any voltage attached to what I mean. As early as 7 April, I went out in a long reading in the requirements of time and justified my vision. I totally disagree with merging the two food departments into one department now. I believe that together with the trade unions you should decide when to physically move the departments under the same roof. I disagree with doing something about the rehabilitation at Mork, and I think it is wrong to lay down Aure Rehabilitation Centre – at least before the municipalities are able to take over the tasks, and then it must follow with money and time. My criticism of Health Møre and Romsdal is that the cut suggestions that came this winter have not been part of a complete plan. They've come apart and split. Health Møre and Romsdal have been in deficit every year since 2011, under two governments, led by both the Workers' Party and the Right. I think it is possible to convert the health business, but to take structural measures, it must be part of a comprehensive and predictable plan where the health business is seen together. I am voting today against the proposals that exist, because I believe that Stortinget is not the right place to decide this. The current proposal is to govern a healthcare company from Stortinget in detail. If we do it once, we've in principle undermined the governance model we've had since 2001. If we're going to intervene one place for one department, we have to be prepared to be asked to intervene in all hospitals and all departments. I believe that Stortinget is not the right body to do that. Yes, I'm from More and Romesdal and from Northern Ireland, but the Stortinget has adopted the health company model, and no one has a better alternative. I believe that it is up to the health companies, and eventually the health minister, to decide this. I understand that it sounds very basic, but we have passed a law in this room on how hospitals should be managed, and no one has proposed a better law that has been given a majority. However, when the Central Party now wants to shift power over the maternity wards into the staging room, I expect a map of how all maternity wards in Norway should be organised soon. If, for example: People in Nordfjord, Orkdal, Rjukan, Valdres, Lærdal and Steigen could imagine a maternity ward, will the Senterpartiet give them support for it through a representative proposal in Stortinget? If no, why not? Finally, my message to the board of Health Møre and Romesdal tomorrow is that they listen to municipalities and residents.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e2368	Since 2011, Health Møre and Romsdal have been undermining. They've accumulated 800 million. overdraft. In addition, the health service is now required to save 500 million. kr annually in order to obtain the necessary resources for operation, investment, maintenance and construction and equipment. The savings measures with which the health service has so far come up correspond to only 211 million. kr. That means we have to count on even more cuts in the hospital supply in our county for the next few years. Today's scheduled cuts go beyond the patient supply, and it's highly uncertain whether a person can save as much as the guide has foreseen. As the managing director feared that it might go beyond the ability to provide a defence service, the decision to shut down the food department in Kristiansund was proposed to be postponed until an uncertain date. But how long? The question is how much of the 17 million. kr should be saved to join a group of food departments, which now have to be saved in other ways. The company has also agreed to outsource the sanitation services at hospitals in Kristiansund and Molde. Despite warnings that this could lead to poorer infection protection, reduced preparedness and loss of important competences, the healthcare provider has partially turned around and decided that outsourcing should be done, through an actuarial transfer. How much do you really want to save in this? Today, Health More and Romesdal have two decentralised rehabilitation centres, Aure and Mork, which offer specialised rehabilitation of patients with, among others, stroke, brain damage and Parkinson's disease. The health agency is planning to lay down both rehabilitation centres, which together have 32 days. Already today, Moore and Romsdal have lower coverage before specialised rehabilitation and daily places than the rest of Middle Norway. The difference is going to be even greater if these two centers are brought down. Patients who require services do not disappear. There is an open question whether patients will miss the service, and whether they will have to buy services from private individuals, or whether they will be transferred to municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e2381	It is rare for the Storting to deal with matters in order to get a health business to change its priorities. But I think that the Storting gets more of these things in the future because the poor economy of health care businesses gives unacceptable cuts in services near people. Health Møre and Romesdal will lay down the rehabilitation centres in Aure and Mork, daily places for the mentally ill in the DPS Seahole and the maternity ward in Kristiansund, and they will privatise the cleaning of hospitals. The protests are many and powerful, and the commitment has given lives to several action groups. Two of them are here today, the bulwark guerrilla and Live North Moravia. All the cut-offs in Health Møre and Romesdal have one main reason: the health company must come to an economic balance. I understand that people get angry and frustrated. Some people let their minds go beyond the management of the health company, some point to how undemocratic the health company model has become, others think the health minister and the government are not taking their responsibility. All these reactions are legitimate. But what we should talk a lot more about is that specialist health services in Norway are heavily underfunded. Health professionals and patient and user organisations are present throughout the country and report significant cuttings with the closure of offers, staffing, pooling of departments and bed posts. And often we hear about patients who don't get the best medicine, because the authorities say it's too expensive. Before the 2013 biggest election, both the Right and the Workers' Party voted to strengthen the hospitals by 12 billion. kr because it was agreed that it was necessary. The right came to the government and got the Minister of Health. After the ageing period was over, the fasitium was nearly 5 billion. kr less than they promised – a solid breach of promises. The Labour Party has delivered what we promised in our alternative state budgets. The Right Party and the Advance Party were re-elected in 2017, and the under-financing of hospitals has continued. The dramatic cut-offs in Health Møre and Romesdal would hardly have been the theme if the Workers' Party had been in government. Politics is about priorities. The Right Party and the Advance Party can afford tens of billions of dollars in tax cuts – we can see that – but not a few billion more for hospitals. I think that's a shame.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e2400	The debate on hospital structure and location and economics has been going on for a long time in More and Romesdal. It is a debate that creates great commitment and, unfortunately, also great contradictions. Before the Storting today, we've seen a demonstration from the Boundary guerrilla, which is a positive and good mark showing the commitment that is for a good health offer in our county and in the country. They demonstrate, among other things: against the closure of the food supply at the hospital in Kristiansund before the new common hospital is in place. There are several of us who have always been clear that it was unwise by the management and the board of Health Møre and Romesdal to add up to a merger of the food departments in Kristiansund and Molde now, simply because it is a procedure that does not have legitimacy in the population, creates unnecessary noise and destroys other good processes that are absolutely necessary between the enterprise and the municipalities. Now it seems that the new director has taken the protests and the political signals seriously and is proposing to postpone the decision. That's good. Health Møre and Romesdal have been in deficit for many years. Where other healthcare companies have managed to balance their budgets, Health More and Romesdal are struggling to do the same. It cannot continue and is therefore the background to some of the proposals mentioned in this case. The size has decided that we should have a health business model. Then we also have to relate to it. This means that Stortinget places the overall strategic leaders in a national health and hospital plan. The responsibility for the current operation lies with the management and the boards of health enterprises. If we adopt the proposals that have been promoted in this matter, we must also take the consequences. In my view, such detailed management of individual undertakings from the Storting will be a breach of the business model and an unfair procedure. I also record that this case and the decision of Health Møre and Romsdal, in my county, also trigger a discussion about restructuring. The rapporteurs in Kristiansund and Kristiansund Labour Party raise questions as to whether the new North-Møre and Romesdal Joint Hospital should be built. Proposals from the Centre Party and, inter alia, an opinion by the representative Toppe in an interview with the NRK, where she spoke about the possible new common hospital, suggests that there is a real risk of rematching the structure that they themselves were responsible for adopting when they were in government. I am pleased that the representative Kjerkol confirmed that the decision on a new North-Møre Hospital and the Romsdal Hospital on the Heelset stood firm. I expect the Center Party to be equally clear on that in this room. I have clear expectations that both Health Moor and Romesdal and Health Mid-Norway will follow this debate and take into account the political signals coming from here today, and take it into account in the further consideration of these difficult issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e2419	This is an important issue in More and Romesdal, about food supply, rehabilitation and psychiatry, but it's really about something even bigger, namely how we take care of our entire healthcare system. It's about the willingness to give our common health care muscles enough to be a good safety net for everyone, no matter where you live in the country, and regardless of personal finances. The Advocate General Geir Jørgen Bekkewold said that the Board is responsible for getting the financial situation under control. Yes, of course, the board has a responsibility for it. But Stortinget is responsible for providing hospitals with a viable financial framework. And unfortunately, we now see in many cases that the economy seems to be troubling professional justifications. It has not been long since the NRK reported 328 mental illnesses in the corridors of Sandviken Hospital in Hordaland. Of course, it wasn't because it was highly professionally justified, but because you felt that the option would be even worse for those patients. The Health and Care Committee recently had a case to deal with where we saw that the day-to-day provision of children and youth psychiatric services in the Inland was greatly reduced. Nor has it been long since we had a case from Rogaland, from Egersund, where we saw that the rehabilitation offer was cut, without the municipalities saying they were able to take over the corresponding responsibility. The working party has raised $1,650 million. kr more on the table in connection with its alternative state budget. It would give room to do more of what is best for people, and fewer decisions that need to be taken because of financial distress in hospitals. In the area of rehabilitation, we recently received a report from the Health Directorate saying that the degradation we have seen in the specialist health service, we cannot see the corresponding construction of the municipalities. It's not because the municipalities don't want to, but because the municipalities are not able to take over those tasks. It is also important to bring with us the matter we are dealing with here today. I think it's often a short term saving for society to cut down on rehabilitation services and psych services. It's about people who are going to have an opportunity to come back to society, back to work, to do better. There are issues like this that unfortunately do not help to create security around our hospitals, but on the contrary, against uncertainty. Today's revised budget from this government does not solve the challenges we face in this matter or in other similar matters, and it does not fully contribute to providing the security we should have for our common health care.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e2434	In both maternity and mental health care, we have seen a long-term decline. We feel that there is a lack of knowledge as a basis for decisions. Should we not have practices based on experience and knowledge? If it is only economically motivated, it is the government and the majority of the population's responsibility. The centre party, the bulwark guerrilla and the locals in More and Romesdal require answers. Research resources must be prioritised here to follow the development and conversion of the health care system. Health Møre and Romsdal have proposed to shut down the daily treatment at Lake Holt DPS. The National Audit Office’s survey of resource use following the implementation of the interaction reform shows that the number of drug treatment and psychiatry lucky days was reduced by almost 10 pst. from 2001 to 2014 and that the reduction in the number of lucky days places has not been compensated by a corresponding increase in the provision of services in municipalities. It is serious that the offer to an vulnerable group has not been strengthened, years after the reform came into force. Municipalities need support, but we're skeptical that rolling teams replace 24 hours. In Valdres and in the Inland Hospital, outpatient teams have so far been little used, and daily services have been much more responsive to patients’ needs. The reduction in the provision of health services must stop. Pain threshold reached. For the future, we have to ask what the specialists are going to spend time on – sitting in a car? And for the professional environment and the working environment: what kind of jobs do we want? We are positive about development and adaptation, but it has to be done gradually and with a transition so that the professional environment and treatment provision are intact all the way. It is said that hospitals will meet the reduction in daily services with an increase in outpatient services, but there is no money to build this up. Worst of all, treatment and support are the most unparalleled cases, while those who sit at home and get worse and worse without disturbing anyone are allowed to be alone; they are not able to – they get to be. The large reduction of daily space combined with major capacity challenges is serious. When birth rates are a major theme of public vocabulary, the conditions for pregnant, birthing and young children’s parents must also be on the agenda. Valdres has been used as a chopper of the government parties here today. Thanks to the Center Party, with Liv Signe Navarsete at the head, we have had a local medical centre with a strengthened presence of midwife and specialists, but as now, you still have to go to Gjøvik for surgery. Overall, the decline threatens patient provision. Lawyers and community health services are those who have to pay, along with patients and users. This is not fair.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e2448	I just want to say a little general about the birth situation in Norway since there has been so much uncertainty about this, because we have very good birth care in Norway. Women are more satisfied with birth and maternity care in 2017 than they were eight years ago. What's even more important is that birth is getting safer and safer. Norway is among the countries in the world where the safest food is safest, not least thanks to skilled and dedicated professionals. More midwives are needed in the municipalities. We who are in the government parties continue to strengthen and develop the midwife service. On 1 January last year, the government reintroduced legal requirements for midwifery competence in the municipalities, a requirement for the red-green government in its time removed. Today’s government has provided for a marked increase in the number of midwives in municipalities and has carried out a strengthening of health stations. During this period of government, the number of annual works for midwives has increased from 279 to 464 years. At the same time, the number of births has decreased. Today it became known that a further 98 municipalities have applied for, and get, 59 million. kr in earmarked funds to hire 80 new midwives. Norway is a long-distance country, and we still need to have a decentralised hospital structure. We need to balance the proximity of the population with competence in hospitals. In some contexts, it is right to pool competences. Minor maternity wards and maternity wards should continue to be distributed to ensure their proximity to the food supply, even outside the large women’s clinics. It is important that the birthers come to the food establishments in time. Good local follow-up of pregnant women is important to achieve this. The proportion of births outside institutions has been stable since 1999 and is well below 1 pst. of all births. Distance from birth is a risk factor for birth outside the institution, but much more causes are important. For example, 79 children were born in 2017 outside Oslo and Akershus, while 8 children were born outside Finnmark and 13 in Sogn and Fjordane. Fortunately, the number of children dying during or during the first day of life fell from 2.4 per 1000 in the period 1999–2009 to 1.7 in the period 2010–2017. Fortunately, the proportion of children who die at birth outside the institution has also fallen. In those periods, the number of births fell from 8.7 to 7.7 per 1 000. It should be safe to feed in Norway and the future mothers should feel safe. No newborn child, mother and father shall be forced home shortly after birth. The needs of the child and the safety of the parents shall determine the duration of the new-baked family at the food establishment. Finally, I would like to say that I have a great deal of understanding and sympathy with the uncertainty surrounding the food supply in Kristiansund.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e2465	I have to say it's a little special to hear the memoir of the previous speaker in the pulpit. The fact that women should be grateful that we have a good supply of food in Norway in a world context – that is what we must expect. But when women tell stories and tell about insecurity – yes, then it has to be taken very seriously. 60,000 pregnant women each year share 424 local land mothers. That's not going to work out. As a society, we cannot be aware that women at their most vulnerable do not feel safe. It's about life and health – for mother, but also for a new life. In this room, we have been accused in the opposition of working with black paint, that we are engaged in terror propaganda by lifting this case. I don't think one of the women who's been wearing a bow shirt, wearing the silver and the armoured shoes and marching up Karl Johan today, has done it on the basis of propaganda. I think the ladies are scared and scared, just like me – afraid not to arrive in time, afraid that the help should not be in place – fear of itself, but above all of a little life. It is women who fully understand the consequences of the closure of the food supply, who do not accept to be deprived. And as the Minister of Health himself has pointed out today: the business model is a bad home for a health minister. It's a model that can and must be controlled, just to give the necessary political signals. Through the bulwark guerrilla, we have put the floodlights on the food supply and the maternity offer throughout Norway. But it is not every place that tolerates just the searchlight that is put on this part of healthcare. The follow-up service, the possibility of being accompanied by a midwife on the way to the hospital, is crucial for many. But in several places we are now told that there is uncertainty about funding, and we hear midwives say that they have not been paid since October. I have not yet received an answer to my written question to the Council of State about this. The midwife's waiting for answers. We received no response to the reply from the representative Kjerkol today. I expect the Council of State to clean up.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e2478	Through today's debate, it seems that the Workers' Party and the Red Party have found each other in a common understanding that the more money you cash into health businesses, the better services. History has shown that this is wrong. Eight years of Labour Party government led to increased waiting times. Health cows increased, and six maternity wards were laid down. After only six years with the Stoltenberg II government, health cows had increased by 73 000 people. The right-hand party government spent two years bringing down the queues by over 40,000. Both queues and waiting time continue to go down. We did that by introducing four simple steps: free hospital choice, more purchases of private providers, package procedures for a number of diseases and funding hospitals according to how many patients they actually treat. There are some of the most important steps you can take for planned operations. Patients have time to choose where they want to operate and can choose where there is the shortest waiting time and the best quality. The government has proved that making demands on hospitals – funding them based on the number of operations they are able to carry out, and giving patients freedom of choice – improves patient treatment and shortens the queue. But through the debate, there is important cause for concern to hear that the parties Red and Center will turn this system upside down. They want to put the hospital offer in reverse and bring us back to the time of long queues. In fact, they propose to change from unit price financing to a fixed grant to all hospitals. The paradox is that when patients are not required, hospitals in Norway that operate best will be those hospitals that do not treat a single patient. I want the Center Party and Red to prepare for that in this room. In the case of acute functions, it's obviously something completely different. Priority must be given to people living close to home. In no way has the party of progress painted the treatment of this case by Health Møre and Romsdal. We have criticised them, however. The progress party believes the process has been inexhaustible. We have demanded that the director should leave, and he has left. We have demanded that the closure of the Kristiansund Food Department be stopped, and Health Møre and Romsdal have now chosen to stop the closure. The progress party expects in the follow-up that new management will clean up, and we will definitely follow closely in the process further.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e2491	State Council Höie said that if there is too much uncertainty for patients on the North Sea, he has the opportunity to intervene. The council answered my question. The state councils can intervene in total. That's also my experience. I fully agree with what the Council of State has said to the Claims of Time, and what he said in the change of line. Because it's practice. State councils intervene in all appropriate matters, whether they are in business meetings with regional health enterprises under the Health Enterprise Act, or they are through instruments that are undocumentable and undocumentable. I have been following this case for many years, first as rapporteur of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee on the construction of a new hospital in More and Romesdal. The process was very critical. Among other things, state councillor Höie tried to instruct the current director Marthe Styve Holte of the regional health company Health Mid-Norway to kick the director of Health Mid-Norway, in violation of the Health Business Act. Director Astrid Eidsvik left with a large parachute because it was impossible to deal with the task she was assigned to. I'm familiar with the fact that Director Espen Remme has done a good job, but he had an impossible task. He would save as much money as the specialist health service would improve. I would like to take a strong distance from the representatives who have blamed the Espen Remme. It's incalculable, and it's wrong. Director Remme was in fact sacrificed by the Council of State Höie. Several have said that the health company More and Romsdal have not been economically sustainable since 2011. Tenders have been cancelled in June 2018, completely out of the ordinary practice. The situation now is that the City Council in Kristiansund has said that the common hospital is not financially sound. The intrusions that are coming are completely irresponsible. The rapporteur of the Labour Party in Ålesund is concerned, even for Ålesund Hospital. Now other rapporteurs have to follow up. Here's something that's not right, and that's how it's been for a very long time. Now you need some really powerful people who dare to cut through and say that the plans are not linked. Here you have to think about something new. You have to invest in Molde. You have to invest through the different hospitals. You have to get local management, so you get enthusiasm in the organisation and this can get back on track.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e2504	I want to start this article with admiring the bandad guerrillas and the job they've done, and the way they've done it. It has been extremely nice and has highlighted matters, which have also helped to shape the debate here today. I want to go in where I left off in the previous post – this is the case with the acute and the DPS on Sea Hole with the ambulance and the daily section. The daily section is now to be removed, contrary to the national orientations given by the Storting. I am deeply concerned about this. It's a very good offer. The result, again, is that it is probably the municipalities that have to take the tax. That's not good. There is an a and b layer in health care establishments, where the municipalities of Health Møre and Romsdal have to take a greater share of the tax than other municipalities around the country where health care providers operate well. We see what happens now with the cut suggestions that are in place, with the maternity wards in Kristiansund and that security. I've been in Kristiansund, I've been in Aure, I've been in Smøla, and I've been listening to people there and their concerns. We have these distances. It is not possible to set up that maternity ward. These cut suggestions actually have forces in them that can detonate the entire county. It is such that there is so much political discussion, irritation and frustration in the people that we must try to avoid that, just as much. It's a little surprising, because statistics from the Health Directorate show that Health More and Romesdal are not particularly expensive to operate in comparison with other health care providers. In the last few years, Health More and Romesdal have doctors below average in both Health Middle Norway and the country, measured in terms of costs per DRG score. Because of the health model, health professionals have to comply with accounting laws and operate hospitals with financial surplus in order to finance the necessary investments. In Health More and Romesdal, that means a deficit of 156 million. SEK in 2018 shall be reversed to a surplus of 270 million. NOK 2022. They planned cuts in the food supply, psychiatry and rehabilitation services have shown that it is not possible without hitting patients. This means that we have to go away from the enterprise model and cut the operating budget off from investments in the hospital sector. But in the short term, Health More and Romsdal need fresh resources not to rage the patient supply in our state. So here's where the council and the government have to allow money.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e2515	Proximity is important. I'm just coming from a walk in the Lofoten and the Vestral, an area where it takes some time to get from a to b. It might not be the place with most people, but still an area of high value creation, where people thrive, and where people want to live. We landed on Sunday evening in Stokmarknes in Hadsel, a beautiful municipality with about 8 000 inhabitants. A few years ago, the inhabitants of Hadsel and the municipalities around them were able to enjoy using a completely new hospital with important functions such as emergency and food services. It's a hospital that may not have been built because of very high migration, but those who live there are important. The value creation that happens there is important. If people are to continue living there in the future, it's important to understand that distances matter. Safety in emergency and food supply is important. Today we are dealing with the question of, among other things, The food supply at Kristiansund Hospital, an offer that is important to us in North Moravia as to the inhabitants of the Western Sea. I am the result of a somewhat complicated birth, which happened two months earlier, and without closeness to the hospital in Kristiansund I had not been here today. I don't want anyone else to lose the opportunity to stand here in the future because someone today doesn't understand that sometimes time is most important. Today is not about what the Centre Party, the Workers' Party or the SV propose. Today, the power of hospitals lies with a few health companies and is protected regardless of the country's two largest political parties. Although both the Progress Party and the Center Party will remove the business model, most of the consensus between us also stops there. The freedom to choose hospitals, which today are used very much by the inhabitants of Northern Ireland, is not available in the Central Party countries. Good hospitals with specialists in planned treatments, yes, we are all for that. But it doesn't help with the world's best food or emergency hospital if it's so far away and so many hours away that it's gone wrong before we get there. It is good that the board of Health Møre and Romsdal now stop the move of the food supply for Northern Mortars to Molde, but I also ask the board to start thinking differently. People in Northern Ireland should be able to feed safely even after a new hospital in Molde is completed. It does not help to vote in favour of proposals here today, which says that the food supply in Northern Ireland will be moved in four to five years. There is a lot that can get better with a common hospital and a larger professional environment, but the distance from the municipalities of Nordmøre to Molde does not get any smaller, even when a new hospital is finished, and we should therefore be able to discuss how we can have a good emergency and food supply, also for Northern Ireland and even after a new hospital in Molde is completed. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e2526	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e2531	The centre party today has two loose proposals that we invite Stortinget to join. The one thing is about urban lease. Health Møre and Romsdal are in great need of a quiet rental at the quarter hospital. They don't have it today. We suggest that Health Møre and Romsdal replace today's cross-country clinic lease with urban rent at the somatic hospitals in Kristiansund, Molde, Ålesund and Volda. City-owned tenants shall have professional, staff and financial responsibilities at each hospital. The parties who say that they are so for local leadership must have good reason to vote against this proposal today. Then, together with SV, we make a compromise proposal when it comes to food. We propose a tightening up of the Labour Party's proposal in the vote, because the wording of that proposal, that the Kristiansund maternity ward should not be able to lie down until the start of a new hospital has been adopted, is too comprehensible. In principle, a good start has already been made. Our wording is that one should not approve the closure of the maternity ward in Kristiansund until the maternity ward in the new Health Hospital is in operation. We ask the Labour Party – and preferably everyone here – to support this proposal in a subsidiary way. There are many here who point to a study that births are so much more happy with the food supply in 2017. It is now found that one in that study has not asked all those who, after all, are born outside the institution of Norway. It should indicate when a person takes it into account for the current policy. There are also many who say that it is safe to give birth in Norway. Yes, it is – everything is relative. But it is also the case that over the last three years more than 1,000 women have involuntary births outside hospitals, and that is what this case is all about. Many point out that health professionals now listen to the citizens, listen to the protests. But nothing has been changed. The entity still has a claim to save for half a billion in three years, and there is nothing to wait for. Mork and Aure cannot be postponed at any later board meeting. And the birth proposal is a postponement, it's not a change. Some people think we shouldn't be managing health care agencies in detail. It's probably the biggest difference between the Central Party and the parties here in the Chamber that goes against our proposals – we don't mean that a food supply is a detail. It also shows the great commitment of the bulwark guerrilla. We want to control health professionals, while others here are controlled.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e2546	I would like to thank you for a good debate. I think most people, regardless of which side you're on, have expressed both a thank you and support for the bundle guerrilla. I have heard a great deal of understanding of the concern that, among other things, They have stated, and therefore I think it is a bit funny that the representative Elise Bjørnebeck-Waagen believes that the government parties have accused the opposition of operating a scare campaign. That is not how I have listened, heard and understood this debate. Rather, on the contrary, I believe that regardless of whether you are in government or not, there has been a great deal of understanding of the concern that, among other things, The bow guerrilla has expressed itself. There have also been representatives of the government parties who have been up here and said how dissent they have been in the Health Møre and Romsdal's proposal to merge food offerings and add them to Molde, and who have also been clear about rehabilitation at Aure and Mork. I don't quite understand that you might have listened, or feel accused of operating a scare propaganda. It's a completely different debate than the one I've been in, I would say. Otherwise I have to say that it might be the board meeting tomorrow everyone goes and waits. One thing is the debate in this Chamber, but it has to be the board meeting tomorrow, and I think we're going to be honest, I guess we're all excited about what the government of Health Møre and Romsdal will come up with. Otherwise, I also understand that the Workers' Party does not quite get this account with the number of midwives and births to go up. When the representative Gahr Støre was Minister of Health, each midwife had to handle an average of 211 births. In 2017, this figure was 138. Since then, more midwives have become midwives, and at the latest today, in the revised version, money has been allocated to several midwives positions in the municipalities. So I hope that this calculation now, at least, has gone up. If it could not be interesting to hear the Workers' Party describe the food offer as the Workers' Party had this responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e2557	The representative Geir Inge Line had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e2562	I just want to reflect a little on the debate that has gone on here today. I note that both the opposition and the position have been very positive both for the job that the bandad guerrilla has done, and that it is unacceptable with the cutting suggestions that are now being put in place, especially at the food department in Kristiansund. Then I expect that if one of them is serious about it, both they are now in position, and the opposition have the possibility to vote for the proposal of the Central Party today, which ensures that there will be a food department in Kristiansund, and that we will secure the rehabilitation department and the DPS at Sea Holt for the future. I really hope that both the opposition and the position can support the proposals from the Center Party when it becomes so clear in the hall that that that is what they want.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e2572	The debates I referred to were on the issues we have had in this Chamber before this year, among other things. my interpellation on 9 April and matters relating, inter alia, to breast-feeding. It may be right that the representative Geir Jørgen Bekkevold was not present in the debates, where we then discussed the maternity and maternity care in Norway, and where we in the opposition took up the maternity provision in the municipalities, the staffing of the food institutions, the need for education and competence, and not least the follow-up service, which I miss an answer from both the Christian People's Party and the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e2577	The representative Kjersti Top has the word twice before and gets the word to a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e2582	The SV and the Central Party have tabled a compromise proposal here today. I have not heard whether this is something that the Labour Party will join or not. It might be nice to know before voting. Otherwise I understand the representative of the Christian People's Party, who is in government now, but the Christian People's Party was with us last spring and created a plurality in this Chamber to ensure that today's food institutions are secured. We hope that the Christian People's Party not only has influence in opposition, but also has influence when they are in government. There are many who have great expectations that one follows that exposure also into the government. I can end there. In any case, I would like to congratulate the guerrilla with a great commitment and important things that happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e2591	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e2607	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that up to three rows of replies be given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e2616	Minister of Health Bent Höie made a statement on 14 February this year to the European Parliament on the ICT area in Health South-East. Discussions were held immediately after the presentation, limited to one post for each of the party groups. On the same day, the Storting took a decision that the Minister of Health's statement should be sent to the Health and Care Committee for further consideration, according to Storting's Rules of Procedure § 45c. The Committee decided to ask the State Council to answer 13 questions in writing, which follows the case. The recommendation recommends that the Health Minister’s statement on the ICT area of Health South-East should be annexed to the Protocol. There have been several misguided and costly ICT initiatives in Health South-East in recent years, and there was a great need to get a statement from the government about them. The failed radiology program, the failed outsourcing and data breach have separately been very serious issues that have clearly been the responsibility of the government. The haphazard projects have put Health South-East ICT bets back years. It has increased vulnerability and threatened security and trust in the service. The failed projects have also resulted in a major waste of public health funds that are widely used in our common healthcare system. It is alarming that one has not managed to manage the complexity of the projects, and there is also cause for concern that much of what went wrong was warned about along the way, without it leading to change. There is reason to ask questions about how this could happen, and why the Storting has not been better informed about the situation. The background to the presentation was the Riksrevisions report on the company control for 2017, which criticises the government for not achieving the targets set for digital renewal and for not having a clear picture of the final costs. The National Audit Office also writes that Stortinget should receive an overall information on the state of health south-east work in the field of ICT. The Labour Party would point out that the statement by the Minister of Health was made at a time when the Stortinget had not been given a debate on the Riksrevision report, but after the decision of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee had been taken. We believe that this was a special coincidence of events and also the background for us choosing to propose sending the matter to committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e2625	In the health sector, it is important that all those in need of help are helped when they need it. The development of smart solutions and good, new technologies will contribute to increased self-sufficiency and good resource use, so that the experience is less influenced by patients and more by people. Technology and innovation provide us with a great potential for providing even better services in the health sector. In recent years, we have seen a major investment in ICT and health in the budget. Much good work is being done on ICT in our health regions, and the transfer of experience and learning from the various projects is very important. There is a particular need for measures to reduce risks and complexity and to ensure proper organisation. This is an ongoing work. Health South-East has implemented measures to reduce the risks and complexity of its ICT work and to ensure better anchoring of the decisions taken, in line with the recommendations of the National Audit Office. Public health in the Norwegian health system should be public, and in a centralised e-health market, it is important that one also manages to cope with shortages and innovation. Buyers have a great responsibility. High levels of competence are very important. Driving innovative offers is now a possibility in public too, but it's new, and it's not always easy. There is a need for good leadership with the anchoring of more dialogue-based, continuous improvement processes in public administration, and from a political point of view, we must clearly focus on being able to create security for those who are going to take these innovative options. In fact, we also need to recognise that innovation requires risk will, and risks will sometimes mean moving into an unknown landscape. Technological development and the international threat picture are changing continuously, and the ability to detect and quickly put in action measures to limit negative impacts will be very important. We have to work on this work together.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e2636	The Minister of Health has held an award for the Great Britain on the ICT area in Health South-East. The background is several major, failed and costly ICT initiatives in Health South-East in the last few years – the failed radiology program, the failed outsourcing and data breach are all very serious issues that clearly have our government's responsibility. In addition, the failed projects have seen the ICT bet in Health South-East back in time. It's probably not without reason that it's exactly Health South-East that is now experiencing data breach, where sensitive patient information is made available to prospective powers. This increases vulnerability in society in general and is also a threat to preparedness in the country. It's my view and the view of the Center Party that it's thought-provoking that what's happened hasn't got any more political attention. It is clear that the failure of the projects has led to a major waste of public health funds. There is also cause for concern that much of what went wrong was detected in the course of the investigation, but was not taken seriously. There is also a reason to ask questions as to why the projects were not stopped during the process, and why the notification procedures did not work. Of course, the size should have been informed at a much earlier time and not in retrospect, as at present. The background to the distribution was the Riksrevisions report on corporate control for 2017. The government is criticised for the fact that the measures set for digital renewal have not been achieved and that there is no clear picture of the final costs. The Riksrevision writes that «The size should have been given an overall orientation on the status» for Health South-East work in ICT. Found at the National Audit Office is serious, and Health South-East's contract with an external supplier was to provide the enterprise with better financial efficiency, secure more money for patient treatment, increase the pooling of investment assets and better patient safety, and that is exactly the opposite that has happened in many ways. I think scandal is the right choice of words. The objective of improved patient safety and effectiveness has also not been achieved by the introduction of a common radiology solution for healthcare professionals in the region, and it is critical that so many years have passed before these cases have been addressed. It's a little trusting, and it's critical that Stortinget hasn't been informed in a holistic way. It's lucky and hard-working by those who work in our healthcare service, which means that the situation has not resulted in greater consequences for patient safety. The most important thing now is to prevent something similar from happening again, for Norwegian health services do not tolerate a new ICT scandal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e2651	There have been several unfortunate events in Health South-East in the field of ICT. It is important to learn from this, both for Health South-East and for the other regions and other ICT activities in the sector. There have been, and will continue to be, changes in the environment, both in technological developments and in the international threat picture. This requires action. We must work to prevent and manage adverse events and ensure the security of information in our businesses. Health South-East has implemented measures to reduce risks and complexity in ICT work, and the lines of responsibility are clarified to improve the anchoring of decisions. This is in line with the recommendations of the National Audit Office. For me, it has been important to pay attention to ensuring the ICT system in my overall ownership management. There are many major and important ICT projects in progress in all health regions, and in my governance dialogue with the health regions, the Directorate for e-Health and Norsk Healthnet, I have taken the initiative to add to a transfer of experience and learning from these projects. In particular, measures are needed to reduce risks and complexity and ensure proper organisation. The responsibility of the health regions for the specialist health services is governed by the Special Health Services Act. This also includes responsibility for ICT solutions and their development. I respect this regulated distribution of responsibilities. At the same time, I have had a special follow-up in the field of ICT and given management requirements in the business meetings. I have also established measures on the authority side of my Council of State. The eHealth Directorate was set up on 1 January 2016 to strengthen national governance and coordination and better organise the ICT field. The Ministry also established a separate department for e-Health in 2016. A theme that has been highlighted is the relationship with the Safety Act and the ICT infrastructure should be defined as worthy of protection by law. This is an ongoing work in all departments where the ICT infrastructure is included, which is scheduled to be completed in 2019. It is well known that there have been problems with important ICT projects in Health South-East. The sector has learned from this, and new approaches are being taken. I would like to remind you that Health South-East has also carried out a number of successful and important ICT projects. The ICT area is crucial for the good development of healthcare, and I, together with the Health Region, the Directorate for eHealth and Norwegian Health Network, will follow up on the work being done.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e2668	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e2673	The Committee has asked many questions to the Council of State to which we have been given an answer, but I came up with something we have not asked. It has its background in the fact that it has our data breach in Health South-East, about which the Council of State has been open and informed. My question is: Is this burglary closed, or is it such that impeccable, forward-looking powers, still have access to sensitive patient information in the journal system of Health South-East?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e2686	It's a continuous monitoring of the activity of our systems, and although one through this invasion has had access to sensitive information, we have no indicators that sensitive information has been extracted or is being diverted. That is what remains the status of that matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e2691	The fact that one does not have any indicators that sensitive patient information has gone astray is okay, but my question is whether the Council of State can confirm whether it is still such that the unconcerned person has access to the medical system in Health South-East, and whether our warning procedures work when it comes to discovering new access. That's the question -- not if sensitive information has been leaked, but if unresponsive today has access to sensitive patient information in the medical records system to Health South-East.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e2697	Through HealthCERT, Norsk Healthnet and the health region's own systems, we have monitoring of that type of problem, just to identify whether unauthorised access is available. We have systems to deal with that, as the representative asks.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e2702	But I have not yet received an answer to my question. Of course, there is a routine and a warning routine to discover it, but my question is whether they have actually worked when one has discovered it, and whether it is today that external access to patient information in the Health South-East journal systems is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e2709	Yes, they have worked, and that is why a continuously discovering attempt to attack our systems, which is being suppressed. It's an important part of our ICT security.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e2714	So the chord change is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e2732	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that up to six lines of reply are given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e2741	First, I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in this matter. The Committee points out that processes have been in place for several years to establish mining landfills in Norwegian fjords in connection with mining plans. Furthermore, the Committee points out that the establishment of mining activities is currently being assessed in accordance with several legislations designed to ensure that different considerations are taken into account. Responsibility for central legislation has been added to the Ministry of Local Government and Modernisation, the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries and the Ministry of Climate and Environment. A large majority of the Committee has noted that in cases of the establishment of maritime landfills from mining activities, such as Repparfjorden and Fördefjorden, there are essential interests that are opposed to each other. In local settings, there are differing opinions on the main considerations to be taken into account — natural interests or potential jobs. The majority indicate that both landfills on land and marine landfills may have environmental consequences. It is not possible to indicate on a general basis which type of deposit is most environmentally sound. The appropriate deposit solution must be specifically assessed on a case-by-case basis. This will depend on the type of rock, the mode of operation, the physical and chemical characteristics of the take-off and landfill masses, the characteristics of the landfill areas concerned, the land coverings, the environmental consequences and the remedial measures that can be applied. The choice of landfill solution has to be determined on the basis of a thorough and evidence-based assessment of impacts on the natural environment, costs and potential impacts on other business and other interests. After years of processes and based on extensive knowledge, the government has granted an operating concession under the Mineral Law. Strict requirements have to be met. On this basis, the majority propose that proposals to halt the plans for sea landfill in Repparfjord and Fördefjorden should not be adopted. There was an almost as large a majority in the committee as it was in the local government in Kvalsund. There was almost unanimous cross-political agreement on that project, and Finnmark County also followed up by the same decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e2754	Climate is a major challenge of our time. We all agree that we should do everything we can to achieve the 2 degree goal. Actually, we're even going to try to reach the 1.5 degree point. We know how important it is, given the report that came from the United Nations last October, which shows the difference between 1.5 and 2 degrees. There's a difference between the two in terms of life on our planet, and how many hundreds of millions of people are condemned to live a life of poverty. We have to do everything we can to solve the climate problem. The climate problem is also a challenge for biodiversity, and biodiversity is also important in dealing with the weather changes that we know are coming anyway. The more biodiversity we have, the better rusted nature is to meet the changes in weather. There is no doubt that the issue we are discussing here today, and which has been debated for a long time, is a matter of balancing considerations. But it is that we should be able to solve the major climate challenge we are facing, we need to electrify more. If we are to electrify more, we need the material that is needed to electrify. We have to take that from nature. It makes no sense if Norway is not to contribute to this work, if the only countries that are expected to contribute to it are other poor countries that make few demands on the health, environment and safety of their employees and that do not properly care for nature. Is nature well maintained with this project? The answer to that is yes. In 2015, the Environment Directorate wrote that fjords outside the area regulated for landfill will be affected to a very small extent by particles from the mining masses. Salmon will be affected very little. It will not cause negative effects on the red lists in the fjord and also the cod will most likely not be affected. This is a responsible project that we need to get the materials that are needed to electrify society. There is a balance, there are two considerations to be taken care of. Here, you can do the best you can, you can do both.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e2765	Trust is an important feature of our society, and Norway will maintain the high level of confidence in society, predictability is a prerequisite. I wonder if it has been assessed by those who are behind the various proposals in this case. Permits have been granted several years back in time, and it is difficult to see what has changed since then. The permits are granted, based on professional judgements, and of course it is crucial in such matters. I think I can almost say that no activity can be done without having negative consequences. All activity is an assessment or a compromise between the positive and the negative. Where the positive is greater, goes further, while where the negative is greater than the positive, leave one there. With the proposals under consideration today, the positive aspects of the company in Repparfjord and Fördefjorden are not even included in the evaluations. Only the negatives must be taken into account. In other words, one will never be able to operate mining because, in general, mining has significant environmental impacts. These include: difficult operation of mining without any form of landfill. In the absence of an alternative proposal for landfill, it must be understood that the proposers want a general ban on mining in Norway. When we then know that the mining we see today is essential to meet the demand for the minerals that we use in the technology that is essential to cope with the transformation that society is facing, a person might wonder what the proposers are looking for. It's a little bit special, because it's the exact same batches that are behind the desire for increased use of the same minerals. Now they stand up and will prohibit access to these. Talk about meeting yourself at the door!
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e2772	The case of permission for mining in Fördefjorden and Repparfjorden raises several important and relevant issues. There are partly conflicting technical recommendations relating to the establishment of mining operations in the two fjords and there are significant concerns about potential environmental impacts and whether all relevant assessments and considerations have been taken into account in the treatment of the concession cases. The centre party believes that there is a need for more knowledge in this area and notes great concern among many. Question has been raised as to whether fishing professional assessments have been carried out and taken into account in the decision to grant a concession to mining in Repparfjord. Both the Institute of Marine Research and the Directorate of Fisheries are opposed to mining activities in the fjord, in the interests of spawning and growing areas for fish. The Directorate-General for Fisheries also refers to the outcome of a study from 2017 that was not known in the preparation of the regulatory plan or in the processing of the emission permit, and considers that there should be conditions for remedial measures with regard to the environment and negative impact on fishing activity in Repparfjord. On this basis, the lot of the centre considers that there is a basis for requiring further fishing professional assessments to be carried out before proceeding with regard to mining operations in Repparfjorden. The process associated with the operating concession for mining in Fördefjorden has been a long one. Already in 2008, an application was made for the establishment of a landfill site. It should be an objective to assess all initiatives that could lead to more environmentally friendly solutions related to mining in the Engebøjellet, even if they did not exist when the concession application was submitted. The main objective in this context must be to exploit mining resources in such a way that the need for land and fjord landfills is reduced to an absolute minimum. It does not seem to be the case with regard to the concession for mining in Fördefjorden. Therefore, the use of the best available technology and method should be a general requirement for all mining and landfill treatment in the future. I am therefore addressing the proposals that the Senterpartiet has alone or with others. Then I would like to report that we support the two solutions put forward by the Greens today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e2783	The representative Sandra Borch has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e2788	A lot looks different in the light of the after-clock, the Altada, for example.: Two years after the opening of the contested power plant, the concessions came. Gro Harlem Brundtland, one of those responsible for the expansion, admitted that it was unnecessary. But when the dam stands there, when the waste from the mining company Nussir has spread to all the streams at the bottom of the Repparfjord, or when Nordic Mining's waste is scattered in the Førdefjord, it's too late. Harlem Brundtland's concessions in Alta were a poor comfort. Let's take the caller in advance this time and turn in time. Because now it brews up to a new battle in the north. Parts of Repparfjord in the municipality of Kvalsund, a national salmon fjord, shall be filled with mining sludge. It's not the first time fjords are exposed to such an experiment. Life in the fjord is so far back after the last time the fjord was exposed to this, about 40 years ago. The government's permission to use fjords as a garbage dump for the mining industry means that parts of the fjords are destroyed. In the spring we find important spawning grounds for coastal cod, and the experience of dumping mining sludge here in the 1970s shows that salmon juveniles were damaged, and the cod still avoids the old dump sites. The marine research institute warned that the sludge would spread through the streams, and the Fisheries Directorate raised objections to the plans because they had too much impact on fisheries. Why does the government want to repeat old errors over and over again? Why should Norway be one of the few countries in the world that use the sea as a garbage dump and dump 30 million? tonnes of take-off mass? In addition to Norway, only Turkey, Papua New Guinea and Indonesia use the sea as a waste ground for the mining industry. Most major mining countries in the world have gone away from the practice that says out of sight is out of mind. When I hear the government parties Right and Advance Party today criticise the defenders of Repparfjord and Førdefjorden, it hits their own government colleagues in the Left and Christian People's Party in the middle of the fleisen. Our call for the government parties is: Turn around in time, there is no shame in turning around. As left-leader Trine Skei Grande so strikingly pronounced to NTB: «Never, never, never, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, With that, I take up the proposal that the SV and the Greens are behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e2806	The representative Lars Haltbrecken has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e2811	There's a lot of environmental stuff we're talking about here. We must save the climate, but we must also take care of the environment, and that is essentially an environmental issue we are discussing today. The use of marine landfills is very unusual in the world, and Norway has a practice for it. The left's contribution to government negotiations has been that it is not relevant to allow for more maritime landfills in Norway. There is a majority in the Chamber of Mining in Fördefjorden and in Repparfjorden. The left has not been able to stop during previous treatments. Then our contribution by sitting in government is always to do projects better, and that must be the goal even when we are there in these two matters. It is to harness all opportunities for innovation and new technologies that reduce the amount of waste to be dumped in fjords. It is also taking a responsibility on behalf of the others, who allow sea landfills, by making those projects as good as possible. There are Sami interests in the north, which are also strongly opposed to the project in Repparfjord, for several reasons. Infrastructure is also part of this project — with a lot of traffic to be organised to transport mass both in and out. There is great interference in nature also on land, in addition to what the sea is exposed to. It is important to fight until the last opportunity has passed, but in these two projects opportunities have gone away. Our strongest contribution is that there will be no more such experiments in several fjords, until we have a better technology that reduces the amount and impact on nature.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e2822	Society shall be electrified. The green shift is going to take huge amounts of minerals, and the minerals must come from somewhere. So let's do it a little bit smart. The question of mining sludge dumping in Repparfjord – just to be clear – is not a question of whether there will be significant costs for nature and the marine environment. The question is how much destruction we are willing to accept for another purpose. The report of the UN Panel on Nature struck down as a bomb in the Norwegian public last week. The report shows that nature dies, and that the main reason for this is that we are wasting. That's why we have to be smart when we're about to harvest nature to stop climate change. We waste when we leave copper pipes that are not in use, stay in the ground. If we had dug them up and recovered them, we would have needed fewer new copper mines. And we waste when we dump mines instead of using them. Exit masses from mining are largely ground stone. Most of it can be used for concrete and other construction materials, or in asphalt, instead of climate-damaging cement. This also applies to Nussir and Ulveryggen, where environmental assessments indicate that these are mines that could have gone to concrete. Nevertheless, we waste – because it is cheaper to use virgin materials. It's a system error, and here I know that I have the mineral industry and the Norwegian industry with me. They're going to be sitting in a blackhouse because the politicians are going to fail. There are low ambitions and fragmented environmental policies that make us need landfills, and that we have such hopeless debates, as today, which are also relatively diabolical, that set climate and nature up against each other. We need policies that make it profitable to think circularly: We need public tenders to demand residues over virgin resources, and the work of local authorities on climate and environmental procurement needs to be strengthened. We need to offer the mineral industry risk relief or guarantee loans when they make environmentally friendly choices that may be risky in the short term. And we need an environmental tax on the landfilling of mining waste that reflects the environmental impact, so it pays to find another use for the masses. Dumping mining sludge in a national salmon fjord – against the warnings of the Marine Research Institute – is the opposite of the circular economy. Therefore, the Greens today are voting to withdraw the operating concession to Nussir at Repparfjord and to grant a concession to Nordic Mining at Førdefjorden. In addition, we ask the government to investigate measures for the re-use and recycling of waste and infrastructure that are no longer in use, and also to determine how the take-off masses from mining can be better reused. I refer to the Greens' proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e2852	The representative of Une Bastholm has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e2857	The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries adopted on 14 February 2019 a decision to grant an operating concession under the Mineral Act to Nussir ASA. Nordic Rutile AS, owned 100 pst. by Nordic Mining ASA, applied on 4 February 2019 for an operating concession for Engebøfelet. This matter is before the Directorate for Mineral Management, and the Ministry of Food and Fisheries is the appeal body. It adds some leads to how much I intend to go into this matter. With regard to the specific proposal here, to withdraw the operating concession to Nussir ASA and not to grant an operating concession to Nordic Mining, it is follows that: Firstly, it is of great importance for society to make thorough assessments of proposed measures that may have negative effects on nature and the environment. Socio-economic assessments, as highlighted in the proposal, can be a tool in such contexts. At the same time, it is important to stress that in the evaluation of the emissions permit and operating concession applications for Nussir, the positive aspects of the proposal have been assessed against the negative ones. The fact that the assessment does not take the form of a complete socio-economic profitability analysis that prices all effects does not contribute to this assessment. There's a lot of other reasons why it's not necessarily the fasitizer either. The question of sea landfill in Repparfjord in Finnmark and in Fördefjorden in Sogn and Fjordane, as has been mentioned, has created a lot of debate and commitment, but both issues have been investigated and debated very thoroughly. Both projects have been granted a pollution permit, which has subsequently been appealed against, and the decisions have been maintained. The regulation plan has been adopted by the municipalities and the decisions have been maintained by the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation. The government takes seriously the balances to be made in large mineral projects. The consideration of nature, species, wild fish, local fish stocks, food security, local environment, other industries and total value creation – all of this – has been thoroughly addressed and evaluated. For the Nussir case, reindeer and Sami cultural practices have also been assessed in particular, for which we have a commitment. The risk of adverse environmental impacts of the two projects is linked in particular to marine landfills and to the risk of particulate spread outside the landfill area. It has been assessed that there is a low risk of particle spread from the landfills and therefore also of negative impact on marine natural diversity outside the landfill areas. It has been assessed that there will not be particle spread in the water layers where the salmon is moving. There are very strict monitoring requirements – this applies to Nussir, but also to Sogn and Fjordane. Operations will be closely monitored by the Environment Directorate. Detailed monitoring programmes for the landfills shall be established. If the conditions of the emissions permits are broken, the Directorate-General for the Environment may stop the operation. As stated above, additional consideration has also been given to the fact that Nussir and Ulverygen will affect two reindeer pastures, and therefore strict restrictions have been imposed on mineral activities for extra vulnerable periods.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e2876	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e2881	In the question of landfilling mining sludge in Fördefjorden in Sogn and Fjordane, the Environment Directorate was asked to provide a purely environmental assessment of the plans. It did so and, in the purely environmental assessment of the plans in Fördefjorden, it did not advise them to establish a maritime landfill because of the environmental consequences. My question to the Council of State is: Why has the government not obtained a purely environmental assessment from the Environment Directorate on the issue of a maritime landfill in Repparfjord?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e2888	As the representative is well aware, it is the Environment Directorate, with the Ministry of Climate and Environment as the appeal, that gives the emission permit and the pollution permit. So it's not the Ministry of Industry's responsibility, but it's assessed according to the environmental regulations we have. It is the responsibility of the Ministry of Economic Affairs to grant an operating concession and, of course, it is also assessed to take an overall assessment of the entire project, but it is important to stress that it is not a re-examination of the pollution permit that has already been granted. In other words, I cannot, and will not, address assessments in the areas of permits granted several years back in time by other government councils. I can answer for what is up in this case, and the proposal that is under consideration, and I can answer for the Ministry of Industry's treatment of the Nussir operating concession.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e2897	I note that the Council of State in its statement, letter to the Committee and in the public debate uses the assessments provided by the Directorate of the Environment when they were asked to look at this in a social perspective. My question was not whether or not the Council of State of the Ministry of Economic Affairs would convert the emissions permit. My question was why the government did not ask for a purely environmental assessment of these plans in due course.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e2902	The specific question, which lies both below another state council and goes back several years in time, is not my answer. What I can say about is what the Environment Directorate's job and role is. After all, the Environment Directorate is not an advisory body alone. It is a procedural body, part of the government. It is the body that authorises e.g.: emissions. They shall consider both environmental arguments and, where appropriate, other societal arguments. This is the natural way to assess for the Environment Directorate. On the basis of the pollution legislation in Norway, no pollution is permitted if an explicit permit is not granted. The assessment by the Environment Directorate is not that this type of emissions is good for the environment. Everyone knows it's not good for the environment. The question is whether we can nevertheless allow that type of economic activity for other societal reasons and because it is within a sound environmental framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e2909	We can read in the Granavolden platform that during this period no permission will be granted for the establishment of new sea deposits in addition to the two we are discussing today. Then I'd like to ask the Council of State if he is aware of any plans for any new sea deposits that would have been relevant to dealing with during this magnificence period.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e2916	I am not aware that there are some projects that have neither submitted an application nor are potters to do so. It's certainly possible for the ministry to figure it out, but it's not like we have a continuous overview of everything going on in Norwegian private business at all times. It is not possible for me – since the question from the representative is whether I know anything – to say anything other than that I do not know about it. It is important to say that there was a correct reference from the government platform, namely ‘new maritime landfills’. It also means that regardless of what is on the government platform, each case must, if it is, for example. should be appealed, dealt with professionally and objectively by the Ministry within the current legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e2923	The question concerns fishing in connection with Repparfjorden. Fishermen now say that the cod is on the edge of the Egga and will not rise because there has probably been some change in the environmental around the South Island, among other things. It has nothing to do with Nussir so far, but what I fear if you don't do research on this, is that eventually the cod won't come up. The proposal the Central Party has put forward, is that we should check whether this will lead to the cod not coming up because these particles will come around. There's a very strong current in the area, and that could lead to the exit of the South Island Sound and also on the outer side of the South Island and eastwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e2930	I have noted the extra proposal of the Centre Party, which is, in fact, a postponement proposal. So the professional bodies that the state has are assessing different parts of this. The marine research institute has made its assessment based on purely marine research principles, if you can call it that. Then we have the assessment contained in the emissions permit to Nussir, which has been confirmed in itself later, by the Environment Directorate and also by the Department, which says that there is little risk of larger particle spread to the extent that it will affect, for example. the cod stocks in a notable way. The assessment is also that it is not such that there will be particle spread to the salmon watercourses, which many people are also concerned about. The decisive factor in this context, when this is first to be started, is that the particulate spread should be closely monitored. And it's not about control once in a while. This is about setting up systems that monitor the spread of particles, if any, continuously, every minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e2940	I've been in contact with the Marine Research Institute about this. What they're saying is that there hasn't been any research on whether particles are coming out in South Island and around South Island. That's a lot of stuff. When I asked, "It will be probable," they said, "you can think for yourself." So my question is going to be, will you be able to do such a research?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e2947	If the question is whether I agree with the proposal of the Centre Party, which is, moreover, similar to the main proposal, it will be a very clear breach of the established division of labour between magnification and government and also create great unforeseeability for an important industry for Norway, because it has been a long and democratic process, and in addition, it is a postponement – perhaps a message to Nussir that they can never start – I believe that it is not a sensible proposal. If there is a more open question as to whether it may also be relevant to research on this, it can certainly be relevant and relevant. My point is that it is no longer that we just give an emission permit, and then you start doing mineral activities, and then we check three years later. Here it should be checked continuously, and the big question is particle spread. The technical assessment carried out by the Environment Directorate is that there is no significant risk of harmful particle dispersal within responsible forms. But this has to be checked.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e2954	I think the debate after the inception of the Council of State is quite sympathetic, because the Council of State has itself gone very high and even ridiculed the debate on mining in Repparfjord because of the environmental arguments and asked: What is Norway going to live on from then? Then the Council of State is free enough to come here to the Stortinget and would not even respond to why the Repparfjord, as has been done for Fördefjorden, has not been subject to a purely environmental assessment. And it is completely avoided to refer to the marine research institute's purely environmental assessments. That's what I think is alarming. But I'm going to give the Council of State an opportunity to answer a question that I think needs to be within the Ministry of Economic Affairs, and that's how we can prevent the need for fjord landfilling in the future, and landfilling at all – because it should be unnecessary in a circular economy. How will the State Council ensure more reuse of the resources from the mining masses in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e2961	First of all, I strongly reject the fact that I have ridiculed the counter-arguments against mining or maritime landfills in Repparfjord. I haven't done that in any way, but that you have a social debate that asks questions about what to live on if all industries are only met with massive resistance, must also be within, to say it carefully. Then I have no problem going through, especially related to Nussir, which is the most relevant issue, what has been the environmental assessments. But going back in time and trying to explain what another government council has not done in another area is not possible for me to do, nor is it my responsibility in a big deal. We are likely to have among the most stringent environmental requirements in the world for mineral activities. We have a target that several mines should also be able to operate as much as possible with minimum CO 2 emissions. However, as of today’s date, the strict requirements outlined by the representative in his statement will mean that there will be no mineral operation of this type in Norway, and then it will only come in another country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e2973	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e2980	I'm putting on the North Norway hat today, and I'm now lifting it up in joy that the government will say yes to activity in the north – activity that contributes to the green shift, and that does not least contribute to badly needed jobs in the north. The biggest challenge of North Norway is that we have resources and opportunities, but some limiting factors. One of them is that there are some politicians who don't want us to use these resources, whether it's oil, gas, mining, marine or wind power. Another factor is that we don't have enough people to fill the workplaces with competent labour. If there is something more municipalities and regions in the north really need, there are more private jobs. We need something to live by to live. Young people move out and get education, but there are few jobs, especially in Finnmark, which make them move back home after finishing education. Locally in Kvalsund, there is also great enthusiasm that the government has agreed to the operating concession for Nussir. Sometimes we have to be restrained by the Storting, but in this case, as I can see and know, good and thorough assessments have been made to ensure that mineral extraction is carried out in an environmentally sound manner. When Bellona also says yes to the measure, it is because there are strict requirements in relation to the emissions permit, and that they assume that we need copper in the green shift. An ongoing doctoral thesis at UiT, the Arctic University of Norway, also indicates that the landfill of mining at sea can be a better solution than land deposits. If we're going to do the green shift, like electrifying society, having electric boats and electric planes, we need copper. This Nussir mineral project in Kvalsund is therefore a win-win project in my opinion. It gives important jobs to the municipality and to the county, and we get extracted copper that we need in the green shift. It surprises me that the Center Party is across hundreds of jobs in the north. I don't understand why we were going to talk about district uprisings if it wasn't going to be to provide jobs in the north and in Finnmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e2995	There are few things that have had such a comprehensive and thorough assessment and review as the mining in Nussir and Ulvesygen. It has been handled by the local government and County Council. It was appealed to the Ministry of Local Government and Modernisation regarding the regulatory plan and was dealt with there before it was finally approved, which I was personally involved in as State Secretary. But not enough: the decision was taken in 2014. It has been dealt with by the Environment Directorate before it was dealt with by the Ministry of Climate and Environment with final decisions in 2016. It has been dealt with by the Mineral Management Directorate before final decision on concession came in March this year. A thorough treatment, most would be, municipal, municipal, at county level, in two directorates and three departments. It may be that this matter should be well explained. Then I want to ask the question: how do people want to stand on and do business in this country when they meet so much resistance? Nussir was established in 2005 and, in the case of final decisions and start-ups, the last authorisation came in March 2019. The problem is not that this type of treatment is a disadvantage. There is a lot of bureaucracy at the top that meets the individual founder when you want to create jobs. Then I think it's going to be weird, and especially when I hear the Central Party, which is obviously negative to what's about 150 jobs in the north. If we're going to translate it into Southern Norwegian terms, it's about 1,500 jobs. So you say no – district jobs that we sorely need in the north. I also have little understanding of what is claimed to be conflicts with so-called Sami interests. Here there have been consultations in the knowledge and in the broadest sense. As far as the Ministry of Climate and Environment is concerned, Mrs Sametinget has been consulted three times alone, I know that at least the Ministry of Industry and the corresponding Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation has done so once. Everyone has been heard. A democratic decision has been taken. Let's take it into account and move on and bet on jobs that we can live on.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e3006	The government has granted an operating concession to Nussir to set up a copper mine in Kvalsund. For many, this is an over-exploitation of nature, environmental movement, local food production, reindeer management, fishing industry and the Sameting. Repparfjorden is also a national salmon fjord. The masses planned to be dumped in Repparfjord are fine grained and contain copper fragments which have been banned in the sea for many years, including: for fishing boats, which are spread over large parts of Finnmark with the current of the sea. This dumping will have an enormous impact on the fishing industry and could affect thousands of jobs along the coast of Finland. The proposal of the Central Party shows that both the Norwegian Fisheries Team and the Coastal Fisheries Team have strong objections to this dumping. The basis of knowledge in the impact assessment is insufficient. It is requested that a fish professional assessment be carried out to identify the consequences of marine landfills. There are strong ocean currents in the area of dumping. I can mention that Hammerfest Energie has run a test of tidal power, with good results. Furthermore, when you get to South Island Sound, there are also strong ocean currents that could bring dust, which won't be lucky for the fisheries. There are many who fear that the dust will advance along the coast of West Finland. This has not been studied, which should be done. The precautionary principle should apply. Local fishermen claim that the cod is already refusing to enter the local spawning grounds in West Finland. This shows that one should be careful so that one does not pollute so much that the cod will not spawn on the coast. Many in Finnmark are aware that the government with this licence in the Nussir case does not take into account the environment, local food production, reindeer management and fishing industry. The government chooses to overrun the employees and very pressured seasam and reindeer samic environments for a short-term mining project. I hope the Stortinget can support proposal No. 2, from SV and the Center Party. The size here asks the government to stop the operating concession and to make a fisheries professional assessment to identify the consequences of a maritime landfill in Repparfjord.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e3019	I have to say that when you sit and listen to the debate, you should think that this is a terrible, unwanted matter. This should be a matter of pleasure. It's pointed out that one says it, and the other says something else, but no one takes over the thorough surveys and investigations that have been done for more than ten years. Here you even draw Altaelva as a result of how bad things can go. It may be that you should have done better, and it may be that you should not even build up the Altava stretch, but at the same time I find it unfair to draw it as an example of horror. This is also an example where, fortunately, you do not let water over the entire village of Masi. This is an example of how some advice and hints were followed, and some demands were made. Along with a sovereign, local management of the salmon in the river, we have one of the world's best salmon rivers. So using it as an example of horror, I think it'll be both historyless and wrong. It also sounds as if mining is a new industry in Finnmark. We have traces from old in Kåfjord, where you just took out copper. Copper was taken out in the Beddjovagge mine in Kautokeino. There were stakeholders who wanted to reopen the mine, but local democracy said no, and then I don't have a problem supporting it. Similarly, they clearly said yes in Kvalsund, and I fully support that. I believe this is a good project, where you have made the necessary demands, and then I expect you to follow it up. We see what South Varanger meant from 1906 to 1996 for the South Varanger community. We see what Star Island means for the Alta community today, what Elkem Tana means for Tana. As for the reopening we're talking about here, Kvalsund is not familiar with mining in recent times. This is a mine that was operating well into the 1970s. They're talking about mining sludge, the sea like garbage and garbage disposal. So that's the excess mass. It's like if you blasted out a new tunnel in the mountains, you'd have fought about the same excess mass. You would have filled into the ocean, as you did in Alta to extend the airport. You would have filled in the sea to get industrial land. You would have filled it on land to have industrial waste. You would have fought to fill it in the sea to strengthen and build new moles. So when does it become toxic, that it becomes waste, that it is no longer a resource just because you've taken out some ores and minerals? What I want to say is negative is the long time you've spent on treatment. I'm glad that the company had such a stayer capability as they had, and that we might realize this project.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e3028	When laymen think of mining, a rock, a thinker of excess mass, which the previous speaker had in mind. But what professionals know is that it's not stone or excess masses we're talking about -- it's sludge, it's dust, it's small fractions. It is necessary to bring it down into small fractions to make it possible to extract as much of the valuable minerals as possible. Whether there are rocks or sludge and dust — it has very different consequences for life in the sea. Small dust grains enter all living organisms. In particular, the newborn organisms – whoever it is – are particularly vulnerable, and it is incredibly difficult to say in advance what will be the consequences of life. The marine research institute in Bergen has a wise slogan that I think the Stortinget should really remember. That's the following: the lake should have food quality. I was really excited when the new director of the Marine Research Institute presented it at a large conference. There's something that gives perspective: the lake should have food quality. The marine research institute has the best scientific basis to assess this, I don't know anyone who can have a better basis. They have discouraged the dumping of sludge in Repparfjord. For me, there are crucial arguments. It's true that copper is an important mineral, but it's not a new mineral. It's a mineral that we've needed at all times. If it were to be so crucial – as some people say here – the price should be high. It shouldn't vary much over time. It should provide stable jobs. It should allow long-term investment. And it should provide the basis for investments that really take environmental into account. It's not like that. The profitability is not good enough to use the rock masses for other products we need, as the representative Une Bastholm so well put it. That is why the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party's proposal are that we should have a fisheries professional assessment to identify the consequences. From the Central Party's management mindset, I just want to say to those who have greeted the Center Party: it's the primary industries, it's the renewable natural resources, that are really at the center. Had the representatives of the Right, the Labour Party and the Advance Party here had equal commitment to getting permanent jobs linked to the fish processing industry, I would have taken their argument more seriously. It's very little to hear from that side about changing the profitability of fish processing, which could give hundreds, even thousands, of jobs along the coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e3043	1.1 pst. of these take-off masses shall be exploited. In the rest of the world, the level of exploitation is so low. In Sweden, there is a project with 20 pst. exploitation. Imagine if one had used so much! One could have built a completely different industry, much more varied. But here's just one fraction one looking for. One has not considered greater use. It's classic for a bad industrial policy. So there's a question about copper, about how far ahead he is. It's not like he's very forward-looking. Internationally, there is a formidable trend towards replacing copper with other types of metal. In the automotive industry, one estimate in both Japan and Germany that only in a few years — in 2025 — one replaces copper 30-40 pst. in new cars. The goal is to replace him completely – and it is both in cables and in components. The same kind of development is seen in the major industries internationally – construction, infrastructure, etc. – those that are the major users of copper. Copper is heavy, less flexible and not at least less available. One can only imagine the enormous development in the electrification of the car park. It is completely impossible if one does not replace copper with other metals. And that's exactly what the car industry is doing today. So the idea that copper is so hugely forward-looking, and that we're dependent on it in the future, is wrong. It's actually the opposite. Copper is being replaced. So this whole debate is based on a very strange basis. On the basis of this, one is willing to make huge off-takes, a major natural intervention, destroy grazing, destroy an important fish fjord – in a situation where the coastal cod is threatened. It is an example of both a helpless business and industrial policy and a miserable environmental and indigenous policy. What we're left with as a community is 0.5 pst. in taxes and jobs in a municipality with – last time I checked – two unemployed. It's fascinating what makes one do. One has no strategy for how this should be. There is even no part of the Norwegian industry asking for the copper from these mines. There is no global shortage of copper today. On the other hand, he is about to be replaced. I think it's interesting that the Christian People's Party and the Left end up in a strange mess because according to the government, they're against the environment in this matter -- because one is so busy opening these mines, which we don't really need.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e3055	I would like to congratulate Mr Nussir, I would like to congratulate the local democracy in Kvalsund, and I would like to congratulate the Finnish markers. Not least, I would like to thank the Minister of Industry, who finally gave the operating concession to Nussir. I want to thank the driver behind Nussir for his stayability. He has worked for a long time and focused on creating jobs in an otherwise economically poor area. It's a little strange to stand here today and debate the emissions permit to Nussir and their plans to start mining in the districts of North Norway. It is strange all the time the emission permit was granted already three years ago, in 2016. In particular, the Centre Party, which wishes to present itself as a district friendly party, is promoting a proposal to stop such a project and not least to stop long-term jobs in District Norway. They want to stop the operating concession because they disagree and ask questions about the assessments that were made when Nussir received its emissions permit in January 2016. It's a little special three years after taking it up as a theme to stop the operating concession. The representative Adelsten Iversen of the Central Party is concerned about whether the masses deposited in Repparfjord will affect fisheries and ecosystems in South Island Sound and include this as a theme in the debate. I can only remember that Sibelco Nordic in Stjernsundet, which is closer to Sørøysundet, also has a sea deposit. I hope the Center Party won't shut down the activity that's on Star Island. There is a comprehensive knowledge base on which the assessments are based prior to the granting of the emissions permit. The environmental impacts have been thoroughly investigated and evaluated. Strict monitoring requirements have been imposed and operations will be closely followed up by the Environment Directorate. Conditions have been laid down in the permit for waste management and alternative uses. The holding shall continuously work to reduce the amount of take-off mass to be deposited by finding alternative application of these masses. Nussir aims to become the most environmentally friendly mining project in the world – and it will be stopped. When you hear that fragments of copper can operate with the ocean currents – Nussir adds approx. 40 kilos of copper per year to fjord, according to the permit. Repparfjord River provides approx. 500 kilos a year for the same fjord. Finally, I would just like to say that we cannot support proposal No. 2, from the Centre Party and SV, for the Progress Party wants growth and development in the districts. Unfortunately, the Central Party does not want the same thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e3074	We are many who are engaged in the green shift with regard to how we solve the major environmental and climate issues. Most people, regardless of whether they want to wind up the oil and gas industry, agree that technological developments will help us a long way. So when the representative Knag Fylkesnes is standing on the platform and trying to predict the future, he forgets that we have mechanisms other than predictions: we have the market, it's called supply and demand. Regardless of predictions, we still know that electrification of platforms, increase of electric cars, development of electric aircraft and automation of electric motors – yes, most of these desired changes require minerals. When we stand here and discuss whether we're going to have a mineral industry, we're not just discussing jobs and opportunities to have more legs to stand on because oil and gas industries will be a smaller dynamo in the Norwegian economy, we're actually discussing our ability to contribute to the world's ability to participate in the green shift. Norway is not just a major supplier of fossil fuels. We're also so lucky that we're located on the globe where there's a lot of minerals. So we're part of the solution, and it should be our moral duty to contribute. As a member of the research committee, I find it alarming, therefore, that you do not just ignore morals, jobs and opportunities in the north, you ignore research and what is the most environmentally friendly solution. Let me remind you that this is not a new debate in Norway. Two professors at the Institute of Geoscience at the University of Oslo wrote an article some years ago that showed our historical experiences with, among other things, The Titania mine in Jøssingfjord, where after a political struggle and complete ignoring of professional advice, one went from fjord landfill to land landfill. They explicitly stated that land deposits were not a good solution. The research, the studies and the knowledge of the two professors confirm that the case investigation of the government has also been made clear in today's case : what most think is common sense, is professionally totally wrong. The run-off of heavy metals is removed from the ground, while the problem is almost absent at the hadponi. Do you really just have to ignore this knowledge of hadpony? Do you have to ignore the trade unions? Do you have to ignore the world, the morals, us in the north and the needs for minerals until the green shift just to pursue party policy? There is little doubt that the government in these cases has taken seriously the serious and important balances to be made in large mineral projects. The consideration of, inter alia: nature, species, wild fish, local fish stocks, food safety, local environment, other industries and an overall value creation are all important and are carefully assessed in the treatment. And for the Nussir case, reindeer and Sami cultural practices have also been assessed in particular. The question now has to be what the left-hand side really wants if you don't want mining, oil industry or aquaculture. What are we going to live on? That's the central question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e3089	To answer the last question from the previous representative: living of a clean and diverse nature that gives us renewable resources into eternity, if we know how to manage them properly. The government is justifying its decision in this matter that we need metals and minerals in the environmental struggle, we need them in the fight against global climate change – and that is right. And Norway, of course, also has a responsibility to contribute to a sound extraction process. But that's exactly what we have a responsibility for, to make sure that it happens in a proper way. It is by no means proper to use our fjords as a waste site for finely ground dust from the mining industry. Those who believe that this is like dumping heavy stones in the fjord have misunderstood something quite fundamentally. This is about fine-painted masses like, among other things. The Marine Research Institute and the Fisheries Directorate fear will spread over long distances. If we don't extract this in Norway, the government says, other countries will extract it with far greater consequences for nature. Here I think they're fundamentally wrong. When Norway uses the cheapest solutions to get rid of the take-off masses, it creates a pressure for other mining countries to reduce their costs with their mining activities in the international market. And costs can easily be cut by further weakening environmental requirements and staff safety requirements. The government adds to a ‘race to the bottom’ globally by weakening the environmental requirements of the mining industry. The requirement to use as much as possible of the extracted masses, both copper and other metals and minerals, and to find alternative uses for the residues will significantly reduce the waste problem. But this too is something the government parties are against today, they do not want a binding decision on it. Then I would like to ask the Minister of Industry why he happily overlooks the strong objections of the Ministry of Food and Fisheries's own Directorate, the Directorate of Fisheries. They raised objections to these plans precisely because it would have such a huge impact on renewable resources in the spring. Governments consistently use the Environment Directorate in their defence, but do not at all mention their own Directorates and their objections to the plans when sending letters to the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e3098	I'll be brief. This is more to be seen as an explanation of vote by the Labour Party: we are, of course, in the Committee's comments, we are part of the majority of the Committee. In addition, the Workers' Party will support the proposals No. 5 and 6 by the Greens.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e3103	The representative Gudmundsen asked the following question in his post: What are we going to live on from? I think it was supposed to be rhetorical. It's right to ask that question, because it's hard to understand what we're going to live on in this country if the assumptions for the business we're going to do are going to be of such a nature that there's almost no way to get involved in the environment around us. That's the way it is: Human activity has consequences regarding the intervention in the environment around us. Then it's about finding good solutions that balance this well, and that makes us minimize the consequences – and that's exactly what you've done about Repparfjord. It is quite right to be against everything, as I see it, that the SV and the Greens are, when you are opposed to oil and gas activities – everything that provides money in the box – and now also mineral activities, I understand. But what are we going to live on then? I think I've understood what we're going to live on. We're probably going to live by handling all the applications that you're going to reject, i.e. bureaucracy. I'm very critical of the bureaucratic solution we've come up with. I believe that the way we handle applications for mineral activities is in no way effective enough. But it requires many jobs – I forgot a directorate instead – at both the municipality of Kvalsund, the County Council of Finnmark, the Ministry of Municipal Affairs, the Ministry of Modernization, the Environment, the Directorate of Fisheries, the Ministry of Climate and Environment, the Directorate of Mineral Management and the Ministry of Food and Fisheries. These are many people and many years of work, but they don't create values, and that's where the problem lies. We must have a business life in this country that enables us to make use of the great resources that God our Lord has given us, especially in North Norway. If we can't do that, we don't have the opportunity to create a basis for settlement across the country either. That's exactly why I find it sad to record that the Center Party is among those who are negatively inclined to this important business that we are now getting into place in Kvalsund. I am not surprised when it comes to the Green and SV Environmental Party, but that the Centre Party says no to 1,500 jobs – from the south to the north – I think I am sad.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e3114	If Our Lord has given us nature, it seems that the representative Per-Willy Amundsen is willing to take him back. This is a massive intervention in Norwegian nature that is not well-founded. One should extract a metal that is highly unclear if at all has an important role in the longer term. In the short and medium term, it will, but industrially, there is actually now a replacement over time. The representative, Mr Strifeldt, said that it has done our utmost. Yes, it has, and they have concluded differently. Those responsible for minerals, the Directorate for Mineral Management, have said that it is doubtful whether there is any profitability in this project. They say that there are no credible calculations for pay and demand better plans that show that this project actually has that salary. They think it's not business-economical. It is also, of course, a comment to the representative Gudmundsen, who said that this is about market and supply and demand. Yes, that kind of assessment was made by the Directorate of Mineral Management. My colleague, Lars Haltbrecken, has named the Fisheries Directorate. They say that the consequences of this are too bad for the sea. The Marine Research Institute says the same thing. If you're a northerner and don't care about it, and don't even mention it, I don't think one knows where one comes from. If there's something you've lived on forever, and we're going to live on in the future, it's a clean sea. But here it's going to weaken it, ruin it, for a process that's going to go over a maximum of 20 years, while, hopefully, the sea's perspective is much longer. What are we going to live on? It suddenly became a big question in this matter. SV is not against mining. There are many mining projects in this country that we are in favour of. We are against this mining project because it has such great weaknesses. It destroys reindeerness, which is essentially clearly swayed. It destroys the sea, which we are totally dependent on, and which one or the other is talking fences about. Then there are the industrial and industrial policy dimensions, which are completely helpless, as I said. What we're going to live on is sea, soil, forest and power, but then we have to manage the renewable natural resources properly. That's what could build the big industries in this country ahead, that's what Norway is built up through history, if one has read it, and that's what can replace the petroleum dependency we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e3129	I think it's worth discussing how the SV and the Central Party stand for important values like local democracy and local business. After all, we're going to go into a local election, so it's okay to get a closer look at it. Today, they are at least doing nothing in between to cancel the outcome of local democracy in Kvalsund. What are they going to live on in Kvalsund? The centre lot and SV want to lay down the 200 jobs planned as a consequence of this decision. Mining provides resources we need to convert to the green shift. This hadponium shall be monitored, the amount of particulate dispersal required and the reindeer operation taken into account. But we don't do these interventions because there's nothing to profit from them. After all the sun brands, our future industries are going to need more copper, it's going to be more electrification, and then Norway is also going to have to take a responsibility and extract some of these resources, so we don't depend on importing all the resources from other countries that don't maintain the requirements for natural activity, HMS at work, etc. If there's one thing I'm responding to, it's the horror propaganda and the use of language when discussing these important business. There are emergency alerts, and you're alerting gigantic interventions. It's not huge interference when you go into exactly the same mining holes that were used 40 years ago. Then there is no gigantic intervention. It's not big opencasts. When this plant comes into operation here, I think many people will see that the reality is quite different from what we are getting today from the representative Knag Fylkesnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e3144	A good question: what are we going to live on? We live now, and I wish we could live even more of the fish than we do. We almost have no way of living from fish, because everything has become so expensive that people on the coast of West Finland have to dig pretty deep into the wallet to get a quota. But fishing around these places is still good. We can live very well with it. What I said, if you add the goodwill, is that Norway's Fiskarlag and the Coastal Fisheries Team, the two big ones in Norway, are sceptical about this and want to find out. That is also what I said to the minister when I asked him. Norway’s Fiskarlag has carried out its studies which conclude slightly different from what has been observed here. When I said that the fishermen were afraid that more pollution could lead to that they didn't get cod up to spawn, it's real. The fishermen are not stupid. They're smart people, they can mass, and you don't have to flirt with them. When they come and say they're nervous about what's happening, you have to take it seriously. Otherwise, there's been a little talk about taking local democracy seriously. Yes, I agree – you have to. I don't think there are so many municipalities that have discussed this, except Kvalsund. I am a member of the local government in Hasvik, and I do not know that we have discussed it – and we are one of the neighbouring municipalities for this. All in all, I think you should follow our call and do a research on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e3151	I just drew myself to make a couple of comments and answer a couple of direct questions. First, a comment to the representative Lundtegen on what the playwrights think. I think one of the problems in the discussion is that some playwrights probably think that here you're going to dump tons on tons of pure poison into a fjord, that they've got the impression. But it's quite right, as the representative Lundtigen says, that it's about fine-painted mass, like, among other things. contains copper residues and also some chemicals from the substance used in the process. Some chemicals have also been banned from use. So it was the representative Haltbrecken who asked the question: why don't we listen to our own directorate? It's a misunderstanding – if you can call it that – that I've heard several times in this discussion both in the staging room and outside. It's not that counterarguments don't win 100 pst. they have not been heard. This is just a sign that our system is working. As all decision-making processes work in public, various directorates and agencies with different tasks and perspectives deliver their professional input. The fact that one of these research institutes or directorates is not fully implemented does not mean that they are not based or treated, but ultimately it is an overall assessment. Of course, it is permissible to disagree with that assessment of integrity, but it is not the case that only because the Directorate of Fisheries, which assesses on the basis of their professional premises, has not been fully implemented, they have not been listened to. They have been an important part of the decision-making basis. Once again, it goes back to the hazards of particle scattering. Just so that's said, no one argues the perfectly obvious fact that life in places where lots of tons of mining waste are dumped dies. There's no doubt about it at all. The question is, will the particles spread to other parts of the fjord, and then to what extent? There is some technical disagreement, but the assessment by both the Environment Directorate and the Department is that there is no great danger of this. But then it also has to be monitored all the time. So one final point, and that's that part of the arguments in the debate hasn't just gone against maritime landfill as such, it's also gone against what's perceived as mineral activity as such, at all. There is quite a broad consensus that you cannot automatically say that marine landfills are neither worse nor better than land deposits. In many cases — there is also an assessment here, and there are also joint policy assessments here — landfill will be a worse solution. But if you don't want the environmental impact, you can't have mineral activities either. Finally, it is not natural that the government parties vote in favour of proposals that come to the Chamber, but I just want to say that the intention behind the proposals for the Green Party that have come, namely that we should work towards a greener mineral industry, I fully share, and that is what I intend to follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e3166	It seems that the Centre Party does not get a majority for its proposals, which – I must make it clear – are proposals to consider new elements that have emerged after – I stress – the treatment of the discharge permit to Nussir, and after the operating concession in Førdefjorden was given. The proposals for the Centre Party are in the process of carrying out a fisheries professional investigation to identify the consequences of important spawning areas in Repparfjord. I can see that the Progress Party has a great need to talk about the Center Party. It is very possible that they feel a little challenged at the moment. I understand that I have to make a explanation of vote here, or rather a clarification. It may seem that some have not read the setting in this case. The centre party supports the setting precisely because there has to be a high threshold to convert administrative decisions. Therefore, I would like to address the Minister of Industry and the Government that there is a great responsibility on the government to set up and follow up stringent environmental requirements for the permits, and that the government must ensure that the environmental and resource state is closely monitored in these fjords, as well as that the permits are clearly withdrawn if the environmental and resource limits are exceeded.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e3173	We have agreed to mining in Kvalsund because we believe it is environmentally sound and because we need to exploit the minerals we have. Copper is important to get speed on the green shift. For example, an electric car needs: Three times as much copper as a normal car, and wind turbines need large amounts of copper and other minerals. We cannot leave the extraction of copper exclusively to countries with much worse environmental and working conditions than Norway. The Kvalsund mine project has strong local and regional support and will make a very positive contribution to local communities. It will provide many new jobs and contribute to economic growth both locally and regionally. The representative halt breaker was about using the cheapest way to get rid of the take-off mass. It would have been more reasonable to have an open land deposit, but land disposal will lead to greater disadvantages for reindeer management. Here we have chosen to take account of the reindeer management and secure the Sami interests. The representative, Knag Fylkesnes, was concerned that the Directorate of Mineral Management felt it was doubtful whether this project was profitable. Luckily, it is Nussir who is going to run the project, not the Directorate of Mineral Management. What are we going to live on? There are several people who have asked. We will live on fisheries and aquaculture, reindeer farming, tourism, agriculture and, above all, mineral extraction and industry, which will create very good new jobs in District Norway – for which the short-term industries we have good opportunities in the north. We in the Progress Party honour value creation and jobs in the north. I record that the centre party is also standing with one foot in each camp in this case. They have a primary proposal to put an end to the project, but then they support the majority position.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e3187	The representative Lars Haltbrecken has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e3192	The Council of State states in its statement that the views of the Directorate of Fisheries have been part of the government’s assessment basis. I believe that there is reason to question, at least if you have actually taken over and taken seriously the objections from the Directorate of Fisheries, which is the Minister of Industry's own Directorate in this field. When, in a letter to the Committee, only mention is made of the Directorate, the Environment Directorate, which supports one's own view on the matter, but totally fails to mention the very critical objections to this maritime landfill, there is reason to ask whether one has actually listened to and taken seriously the objections that have arisen.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e3203	We have now had a thorough debate on this matter. That's what I think I've been healthy. I would like to welcome the intervention by the Council of State at the very end, because I think it is very good when the Council of State is also taking part in the debate we have, and dare to address the environmental arguments and counter-arguments in this matter, which is precisely why the matter ended up in the Committee on Energy and the Environment, even though it is the Minister of Industry with which we have had the debate. I would like to stress this, because I think we have a very big problem if the Minister for Economic Affairs, the Minister for Local Affairs and the Minister for Transport cannot come here and debate the environmental aspects of the sectors for which they are responsible. Now I was told that the Council of State is looking positively at the solutions I am promoting, and that I am supported by several of the parties in the Chamber. I am very pleased about that, and I would particularly like to recommend the Council of State to look at the public tenders. There he might have to talk to another member of the government, because there are some others who are responsible for it. But this is a problem, and I have it from Nussir himself. I've also been to Kvalsund. I've also been to the public meeting and talking to Nussir myself. It is ultimately a cost question. If we want to have a mineral industry in Norway and want that mineral industry to lead the environment, we must also have the means. We have to have a policy that allows them to put on that leadership sweater. I believe that a very low-hanging fruit is that public tenders are involved and demand and provide a market for the mining masses, even where it becomes little more expensive.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e3210	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e3226	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that up to six lines of reply are given by members of the Government, and that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e3235	We know that the oceans of the world are threatened by both garbage, overfishing and pollution, and not least an increase in the temperature of the earth will have major consequences for marine life. It threatens our natural resources. Therefore, the work on healthy and clean seas is also of the utmost importance to our government. We have taken different measures at national level, and we have taken a leading role internationally in contributing to the work of cleaner seas. In Norway, there are six marine protected areas per day within the territorial border. We have no one in the exclusive economic zone that goes beyond the territorial limit, and here we have no authority in Norwegian law to be able to protect. However, during 2020, the government will present a separate case on a comprehensive national plan for marine protected areas. The areas of the exclusive economic zone are also included in this work. An evaluation of the current state of play is carried out and, if new measures or instruments are identified to follow up both national and international objectives, it will be highlighted in the plan. We therefore believe that the need for a legal framework for marine protection areas in the exclusive marine zone is already under investigation. So there's international target set of 10 pst. coastal and marine conservation by 2020, and follow-up by individual countries. What we signal by mentioning measures other than purely conservation measures is that achievement of the target cannot be based solely on the percentage of the area but that other measures also contribute to the achievement of the target. In the case of good governance, such as: The management of fisheries, which has a number of land-based instruments, or the management of our national marine parks, says something about how to manage the areas based on knowledge of what are protected areas, what challenges are faced, and what policies are being pursued to manage them. It is important that the decision-making basis for establishing marine protection areas is well scientifically justified and that it is suitable for ensuring long-term protection of nature and ecosystems. The 36 coastal areas recommended for the Marine Protection Plan by an Advisory Forum in 2004 remain the subject matter and recommendation of work in marine protection areas. This is an important topic, and it is a priority work on the part of the government to contribute to the good management of our oceans. We are already well in the process of assessing the various measures needed to achieve our objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e3248	Thank you to the rapporteur for a good review. The Labour Party also sees the need for a comprehensive plan. We also agree that the technical base and the 36 candidate areas surveyed in 2004 should be used as a basis for further work on marine protected areas, together with emerging knowledge, in the Norwegian Sea, and that a plan should be presented for the work on marine protected areas. This was the basis for the previous decision of the Storting, which said: ‘The Government is asked to follow up the work of a comprehensive national plan for marine protection areas and to give priority to the areas defined as particularly valuable and vulnerable in this work. [[SVO]] The government is asked to present a separate case to this effect by 2020 at the latest.’ We have expectations that the decision of Storting will be followed up, and that we will get it back to Stortinget. That is why we are now comfortable to address the Committee's comments and also the majority of the Committee, which follow up this earlier decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e3260	I would also like to thank the rapporteur for a good review and for a good cooperation. There is no doubt, as Mr Seestad said, that there is a need for a comprehensive plan and an active policy to safeguard the marine marine areas of the exclusive economic zone. On the other hand, this investigation work was started quite a long time ago. Some will – perhaps rightly – say that it has taken a long time, when the work was already started with an odelstingsproposition as far back as in the 2008–2009 staging session. The centre party believes it is important that we manage to land a policy that both takes care of vulnerable ecosystems, takes care of natural diversity and provides a basis for the sustainable use of the resources of the areas. In the proposals we are invited to adopt today, it is among other things. a proposal for an unrestricted protection of 10 pst. of Norway’s territorial waters. The centre party cannot take part in such an absolute safeguard decision that neither takes into account the protection values we are to protect nor is it possible to take into account both the use of resources and a sustainable ecosystem, and without the objective of protection appearing to be clear. We therefore support the majority's view and await the work already under way and in progress. Based on the conclusions of this, it will be easier to adopt an overall approach, which will ensure both the possible value of protection, ecosystems and the sustainable management of resources in the areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e3269	Last week, the world received a very serious warning from the United Nations Panel on Nature: we're about to wipe out lives on this planet at a pace we haven't seen our husband do in millions of years. This was a report that should have woken up anyone in this room. The threats to life in the sea are, as we have heard earlier today, increasing. Not long ago, the Storting decided to open up new activities in our seas, namely mineral operations on the seabed – despite the fact that an overall Committee on Energy and the Environment also realized that our knowledge of the nature of the seabed and our knowledge of the impact of these activities on the seabed was very limited. Earlier today, the Environment Directorate has been honoured by several representatives, including from the government parties. The Environment Directorate pointed out during the consultation on marine mineral activities that there was an urgent need to update the environmental regulatory framework in order to address particularly vulnerable natural areas and valuable natural resources located outside 12 nautical miles. Then we hear – at least so far – that the parties that have been up and spoken in the debate want a comprehensive plan, and I interpret it so that no one rejects the fact that we should be able to have a law in the future that also gives us the opportunity to protect marine areas beyond 12 nautical miles. That is why I hope the work that is being done to show that the government is going, is going fast, because it requires the situation of us today. I'm addressing the suggestions that SV is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e3280	The representative Lars Haltbrecken has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e3285	Like several of the previous speakers, I would like to thank the rapporteur for a good proposal. Today we are discussing a proposal for a representative on marine protected areas in the exclusive economic zone. I think everyone agrees that we should take care of the natural diversity and the ecosystem in the marine areas as well. However, I would like to remind you that there is already ongoing work on a plan of work on marine protection areas and that measures will be assessed. I would like to remind you that there are already six marine protected areas with cross-sectoral protection under the Nature Diversity Act § 39. It includes four national marine parks and eighteen coral areas protected by fisheries legislation, and a protection process is in place beyond that. Otherwise I'll bring my post into something else, but still adjacent, namely that I see a good local work going on in many places in the country to improve the ecosystem locally in both fjords and archipelagos. There are many municipalities that establish lobster reserves where appropriate, or create artificial reefs to improve the marine ecosystem. The government has launched a large fjord remediation program to clean out old pollutants and pollution, which has been well received in the municipalities. So there's a lot going on locally in the municipalities and among the local population that shows that the inhabitants are occupied by nature even under water. Among other things, in my home country, West Agder, there is a lot of positive work going on, among other things. with Blue Growth and the things I mentioned earlier in my post. Furthermore, it is obvious that the government is doing a good job with a sustainable sea and coastal zone with its efforts against marine pollution, which includes: was the theme of a previous article. But back to the matter: the Progress Party looks forward to the further work of the climate and environment minister and to discussing the outcome.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e3296	It's been a long day. I'm going to start with a little story, so the hall gets to close your eyes, if you like. Norway is a seashore. The first stone-age people came to Norway by sea and settled along the coast 12 000 years ago. Since then, the seas have been the basis for housing, trade and prosperity development. Norway has the largest herring and cod populations in the world. The rift outside of Lofoten is the largest deep-water coral reef in the world. Seabird populations along the Norwegian coast are huge. But the story goes on like this: a week ago, the United Nations Panel on Nature came up with a report that hit us on the ground. We got a warning about the critical state of Norwegian nature and our planet. Half of all coral reefs have disappeared. One in three fish stocks is overfished. Climate change alone will make between 3 pst. and 25 pst. of life in the sea will be gone by the end of this century. If we're to save the sea, it'll have to get better professional protection. However, it is not necessarily necessary to stop all activities in marine protected areas as long as the natural values of the area are not degraded. None of the proposals made by the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European That is why, with legal assistance, we have put forward the proposals we are discussing today: to introduce a legal framework for protection in the exclusive economic zone, which is currently lacking and on which I believe everyone here in the Chamber could have been present, and, as a separate proposal, to put in place a plan for protecting 10 pst. of our sea area by 2020. We're in bad shape. About 0.4 pst. marine areas of Norway are currently protected. We lack legal protection tools for almost 80 pst. of our marine areas. Sweden has protected 15 pst. of its sea areas. The United Kingdom has protected 45 pst. When we destroy the environment, we destroy for ourselves. There is a stark contrast between the seriousness of the natural and climate crisis and the decisions we elected by the populace. I believe we are holding professionals and civil servants back by not even ensuring an opening in the law to protect where necessary. I wish we could be the generation of politicians who made sure that future generations will have as much joy from the sea and nature as we have had. To say it in American: ‘Let’s make nature great again’.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e3311	I prioritise the work of a comprehensive and ecosystem-based marine management, including the conservation of marine areas. Climate change and increased activity in marine areas create new challenges. We must provide for a maritime management that takes care of marine ecosystems and is the basis for a sustainable marine economy. Norway uses a holistic and ecosystem-based management tool for marine management. The overall management plans have also gained significant recognition internationally. Conservation of an important underwater nature through cross-sectoral protection and sectoral protection measures is part of a holistic and ecosystem-based management of marine areas. We will take care of natural diversity and provide a basis for the sustainable exploitation of natural resources. In the OECD report «The Ocean Economy in 2030», sea-based industries and well-functioning marine ecosystems are the two equidistant key elements of a marine economy model. Norway’s maritime policy also reflects this through a holistic and ecosystem-based management, which promotes both sustainable use and conservation of ecosystems. Marine protected areas may be established in coastal and marine areas to the territorial border in accordance with Section 39 of the Nature Diversity Act. The Government assumes that protection under the Nature Diversity Act will continue to contribute to the preservation of a range of representative, specific, vulnerable or threatened marine natural values along the coast for the future. The protection of natural values in marine areas outside the territorial border is currently provided for by sectoral legislation. For example, the fishing authorities have the possibility – under the Sea Resource Act – to establish marine areas protected from harmful fishing activity. For further work on marine protected areas, work is under way on a comprehensive national plan. As part of this plan, an evaluation of the status of marine protection and protection activities will be carried out. In addition, it will identify the further need for protection and protection, with a background in national and international objectives. Norway shall follow international conservation objectives. The objective, adopted within the framework of the Convention on Biological Diversity, includes measures providing for the effective and long-term conservation of a geographically demarcated area where specific natural values have been identified. The different protection regimes we use all contribute to the achievement of the objective, but to different degrees to the different criteria that result from the objective. Both fisheries and environmental management have land-based instruments that are all relevant in the assessment of the so-called Aichi objective 11. The work on marine protected areas has been ongoing for a long time. To sum up, the Government will present a separate case on a comprehensive national marine protection plan by 2020. Areas outside the territorial border are also included in this work. As part of the plan, the status and need for protection and protection of marine areas will be evaluated, taking into account national and international objectives. This will form part of the basis for further work on marine protection in territorial waters and the conservation of marine areas outside the territorial border.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e3328	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e3334	The council itself referred to the Granavolden platform, which determines that the government will work to achieve the Aichi objectives. One of these measures is that 10 pst. the protection of the world's coastal and marine areas by 2020. Similarly, the UN’s sustainability target states that 10 pst. marine areas of the world shall be protected by 2030. Today is about 0.4 pst. the protection of Norway’s marine areas. The comparison with Sweden, Denmark, Germany and the United Kingdom does not look particularly good. 15 pst., 18 pst., 45 pst. and 29 pst. marine areas are protected. My first question to the Council of State is – since the Storting is now leaving to adopt a request to the government to come back with proposals for a law-making body that makes it possible to protect, where there are professional reasons for it: are we now in danger after the whole marine plan has come, that there are no proposals for a law-abiding body?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e3341	As I say, it'll be an evaluation, and then we'll look at the areas outside the territorial border. But it's not that we can now, within the territorial limit, protect under the Nature Diversity Act, but outside we can decide to have protection under the Marine Resource Act. According to a note from the Energy and Environment Committee during the previous majorisation period in relation to Nature of Life, what is to be taken into account in the follow-up to the Aichi objectives is precisely to be these areas also outside the territorial border. But this has to be a question that I come back to when we come up with a marine protection plan and how we're going to follow up these 36 areas that were proposed back in 2004.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e3346	What I hear the Council of State repeat is that we should get an evaluation. We already know how much and how little it is that is protected, so it's a political question if we want a stronger and more varied protection of these marine areas. Does that mean that it is not really politically clear yet whether the government wants and also has the opportunity to introduce protection into the exclusive economic zone outside the territorial border, and that what we get, really is just an evaluation, and then we start the debate again in 2020?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e3351	Protection is also possible outside the territorial limit today, under the Marine Resource Act. And then we also have 18 areas where there are coral reefs that have the kind of protection that can also be done in the future. We have to look at how we follow up within the territorial boundary and what's outside. Then we have to look at the evaluation that we get, whether there are proposals for changes, but it has to be part of the matter that is then presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e3356	I conclude that it's not clear what the government wants yet, because I don't understand why, pending more knowledge about what kind of protection should be introduced, and where, could not have made sure that you have the authority to introduce protection when you get the knowledge needed to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e3361	Then I'll repeat, me too. We have marine management plans in Norway, with considerable international recognition, which take the whole sea area and its management. Then, as I mentioned, we have the opportunity to take decisions on demarcated areas, which are part of what is in the Aichi objectives, where you can have the protection of the area under the law that we have, under the Marine Resource Act. Then we want a follow-up of marine protected areas. There is a concrete work on everyone – now it is probably 21 – that is in a protection process. Ten of them are already in the department. So it's going to be a follow-up with an overall assessment of them, and we're also looking at the areas outside the territorial border. But the comments, suggestions and assessments of it must come when the matter comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e3366	The cord shift is over. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e3382	This interpellation is, in fact, about the two-part objective that we have in Norwegian poaching policy. It's a goal that has a long history. It was found in the Robbery Comparisons and in the Stockholm Treatments in 1997, 2004 and 2011. It is about predatory wildlife policy not only dealing with the needs of large predators but also with ensuring agriculture and grazing, which plays an important role in housing and industrial activities, but also in species diversity and biodiversity. In 1997, the Committee on Energy and the Environment stated: ‘The Committee would stress that we need to have a two-fold objective which at the same time ensures active agriculture with the possibility of exploiting grazing resources in the sheep and clean pastures. This means that the predatory game management must be handled in such a way that clean and clean operations can be carried out in an acceptable economic environment.» This was confirmed in the 2004 Robbery Agreement and later in the 2011 Robbery Agreement, where it states: ‘The Committee will stress that the two-part objective is to be maintained and considers that viable farming activities in areas of wild game continue to be possible.’ The 2011 Robbery Agreement also provided further guidance on how to set up the Robbery Administration and on how to balance the two objectives in the current management. When we stand here today, it is clear that in recent years, Norwegian predatory wildlife policy has had a significant impact on giving predators more and more room in Norwegian land management, and that restrictions are primarily imposed on grazing industry and agriculture – not to mention the communities in Norway that increasingly and less perceive them to be predatory wildlife reserves as a consequence of this government’s policy, with all that it implies. That is why it was interesting when a few weeks ago we received a report from the Food Safety Authority that demonstrates on several important points that the two-part objective of the predatory game policy is not being followed up. I will come back to that, but first of all an important emphasis: we are still hearing from the government that predatory game policy is successful because the damage figures in the grazing industry are falling. There's a claim that gives me bad taste in my mouth, because when, for example, it does. there are fewer sheep taken by wolves in the border areas of the East, it is seaworthy because there are no sheep left on the eastern pastures in large areas, in both Hedmark, Akershus and Østfold. It is also because traditional land use in this area is not recognizable. The wolf zone has in fact become a wolf reserve because the government does not respect the adopted wolf management of the Storting and the decision of the local predators to manage the wolf population. Then we also get dramatic damage situations in the periphery of the wolf zone. Last year it went hard on the north-east valley. The year before, we had a pretty horrible situation in Hadeland. Both parts occurred in what is called grazing priority areas, and it came as a result of an inability to extract pests and a wolf policy that is no longer under control. When the loss rates of the bear in Trøndelag are as high as they actually are, and we see the predatory game management and the Minister for the Environment trying to expand the bear zone and increase the bear population, it is encouraging for everyone who is engaged in grazing, agriculture and rural workplaces in Trøndelag. Last year, the rapporteurs in Trøndelag launched a protest against the use of wild game management. It happened just after the loss of sheep to bear was unusually large. There has also been a sharp increase in the loss of domestic waste that requires rapid action. Food surveillance indicates that reindeer are the most important ‘food source’ for you and gloat in the northernmost states, and writes that they strongly lack political initiative to do something about this situation. They believe that the management of the peaceful predatory game in the domestic areas is not adapted to live reindeer management in a way that allows the protection of grazing animals in accordance with the Animal Welfare Act. I understand the Food Authority's criticism in this area very well. In 2017, the average was 44 pst. of the reindeer calves taken from wild game – 60 pst. in Troms, 57 p.m. in Northland and 45 pst. in Nord-Trøndelag. There are very alarming numbers both for the industry sea and not least animal welfare. I could still and explain the situation with regard to other predators, including you guys in the mountain strips, but the main picture there is well known. The Jervej act did not give the desired results. The allowances are not met when you have your weight check, and that also means that during the summer season the losses are high in grazing. What we're facing is actually a historically powerful predatory force in many parts of Norway. I have wondered that this government does not take it more seriously than they have. It is felt that the government parties are repeatedly failing the rural population and the grazing industry and the two-part objective that we have all agreed on at several intersections of the Stortinget. And because it illustrates that very point, I almost have to say that this interpellation was not addressed to the Minister for Climate and Environment. I wrote this interpellation and addressed it to the Minister of Agriculture, because it is about the part of the predatory game policy that affects agriculture very much. The direct premise is a report by the Food Authority, an administrative body governed by the Ministry of Agriculture and the Minister of Agriculture. However, when the Prime Minister chooses to transmit the interpellation to the Minister for Climate and Environment, it is a strong signal in itself. It clearly shows that it is the Minister for the Environment who has managed the predatory game policy in Norway alone. The matter is kind of outsourced little to the left, if you can say so, but there are some questions that come up in the extension of it. What would the Minister for Climate Change say if the Commissioner had answered the questions of pollution and pollution control, which are now under the Directorate for the Environment, in the Grand Council of the Minister for Agriculture? What would the Minister for Transport have said if the affairs of the Air Safety Authority had been answered in the Grand Duchy by the Minister for Municipal Affairs? That's what's going on here. This is the Ministry of Agriculture's body which responds to a question that is also the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture for grazing. It is then necessary to ask the question: is there really anyone in the government who takes care of the interests of the grazing industry in the predatory game policy? As it is now, it appears that the Ministry of Agriculture has completely abdicated from an area where the Ministry of Agriculture has a legitimate and important place and important interests to defend. So this is a report from the Food Authority. It is called ‘Summary of grazing season 2018 and prospects for coming grazing season’. I have to say it's depressing reading. It is quite clear that the Food Safety Authority considers that it is not possible to do its own job properly in relation to animal welfare issues, because the management of predators is fundamentally distorted for the benefit of predators, and that the two-part objective is not respected. To say what the head of the Food Authority said in the nation on 1 April: ‘The two-part objective puts us in a situation that is difficult to deal with.’ Food surveillance points in particular to the need to maintain the predatory game pressure at a level that makes grazing acceptable to the welfare of the animals, to keep grazing priority areas free from harmful predatory game, to apply the burden-sharing principle in a different way from today, to ensure that the effective monitoring of pests is essential and to increase the yield before the grazing season. Harm trapping and licence hunting must become more effective, and residual take-offs – when not taking out the entire quota of predators – must be made in accordance with the predatory game settlement. This has been pointed out by many of us for years, but it is not followed up in practice. Food surveillance also believes that the large and rapidly increasing loss of tamrein is unacceptable in view of animal welfare. Monitoring calls for policy initiatives to collect and identify the causes of these losses. The judgment of the Food Authority is quite clear: the management of the peace of the predatory game in the domestic areas is not adapted to the way you operate it today. It is not possible to protect the grazing animals in line with the Animal Welfare Act. This is serious, and I expect the Council of State to recognise the underlying problems. The Food Authority is calling for policy initiatives. My question to the Council of State is whether he has faith in what the Food Authority says in its report, the things they point to as challenges, and whether the government will take some new initiatives that can correct the great distortion of the predatory game policy we are now seeing, when the two-part objective is not being followed up in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e3425	The game management has gained a lot of knowledge and experience. Management has a high level of preparedness, and stock developments and damage situations are continuously followed for the best possible achievement of the two-part objective. The relationship between predatory game on the one hand and grazing animals on the other side of the wild pasture makes it inevitable that there will always be some challenges and demanding assessments to be made. The image is that the predatory game management works well, which includes, among other things: is expressed through the historically low loss rates for sheep in recent years. The Government follows the adopted policy on the robberies agreements in 2004 and 2011 and the majority decision on the wolf from 2016. This is done within the framework determined by the Storting through the accession to the Berne Convention and the adoption of the Natural Diversity Act. One of the means of achieving the two-part objective is zone management, where predators prioritise different areas for grazing animals and predators. It is therefore important that the area differentiation works well. Here we work with the denominators to find further improvements. Licensing and quota hunting shall be the principal means of stock management for predators. This works mainly well, but I have found the need to make some adjustments. The period of licensing of wolves outside the wolf zone has changed so that start-ups have moved from 1 October to 1 December and the end of the period has changed from 31 March to 31 May. This change allows the identification of genetically valuable wolves in the autumn, before the licence can be revoked, while the licence can be extended beyond the spring towards pasturage. For bears, the stock target is 13 annual young people, while the population was about 8 young people in 2018. In order to achieve the stock target, it is particularly necessary to maintain the core, and I therefore consider measures to improve internal care. Gaup populations are also below the stock target, and there is a need to facilitate an increase in the stock when hunting quotas are set. For you, licensing in some areas works well, while in other areas it works worse. I will send to the hearing a proposal to make the experimental systems with artificial light by attacking and camera surveillance and electronic surveillance of the fishing booth permanent. In addition, the administration makes exceptional take-offs of wild game. Such withdrawals are made with a background in damage history and potential for damage. The scope and priority are discussed with the participants. Exceptional withdrawals from the york are also carried out before the end of the licensing period. So far this year, it's done killing one bear in Meråker and 33 yuvs, including 5 hiutaks. Such withdrawals are important to bring down the loss rates. Roof game uses large areas. We have a good monitoring of the predatory game, but it is still not possible to predict where, for example. the bear or the wolf on the hike may appear in the summer. We therefore need to ensure that there is a system and a preparedness in place where loss situations have to arise. Robbery management also works well when loss situations arise. We have good damage documentation systems. A low threshold is practised to allow the killing of predators in priority pastures, and the processing of applications for fallowing is rapid and usually within minutes or hours in acute situations. I am sometimes receiving suggestions for different methods of killing that are claimed to increase the effectiveness of damage collection. We consider such proposals, but experience has shown that the use of e.g. helicopters or drones will only exceptionally contribute to increasing the effectiveness of the fall test during the summer half-year. It's usually the traditional methods, like postage hunting, that work best. The use of large resources on new methods of felling may also lead to a reduction in the effectiveness of killing or other adverse effects on grazing animals or game. A lot of experience and knowledge has been gained about killing methods, and about what works effectively in different situations and for different predatory species, both in the State's nature oversight and in experienced local killings. The government believes that there is a need to pool these experiences. Therefore, the State’s nature oversight has been entrusted with the task of providing a guidance for the execution of harm-reduction tasks. The intention is that the supervisor should be of assistance to municipal felling teams and help to streamline the implementation of harm-reduction trials. From this year on, the government has also strengthened the State's nature oversight by 5 million. kr, in particular with a view to providing additional assistance to local killing teams while at the same time assisting in damage-reduction operations. The felling of predatory game, especially during the barking season, is demanding. It is therefore important that there is a realistic expectation of harm-reduction testing. In some cases, therefore, prevention measures will be relevant in order to prevent harm. This year, the government has strengthened prevention measures by 10 million. kr in order to increase the number of measures to prevent damage to grazing animals, and in particular in order to find solutions in areas where predatory game is often present. Although the losses of both sheep and domestic animals to predatory game have been reduced in recent years, the government will continue to work to reduce losses further, so that we follow the two-part objective that we should have both predatory and grazing priority areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e3455	The answer to the Council of State makes me uncertain whether he has read the Food Authority's report, because the starting point for my interpellation was that report, and it says it's not going well. The council just stood up here and said that the losses to the tamrein have gone down. No, they don't. This report shows that they have gone up. They've gone up by 23 pst. total. The loss rate is 44 pst. for reincalves – 60 pst. in Troms, 57 p.m. in Nordland. It hasn't gone down in the case of tamrein, so I think the council must at least go up here and fix what he said about that, because that's not the case. Then the Council of State must be able to deal with that report. That is why I wanted the Minister of Agriculture to have been here, who is responsible for the Food Authority and for agriculture and grazing. They are deeply concerned about the major losses in domestic management, they are deeply concerned about animal welfare, and they ask questions about whether the two-part objective is being met. Then the question is: does the Council spend a lot of time telling us how to meet the stockpiles targets for predatory game, but could the Council of State also figure out a little how to maintain and develop a living grazing industry in Norway? What, in particular, will he do to protect the periphery of the predatory area, in particular areas such as Meråker in the North Trøndelag, as Hadeland, as the North East Valley, which is now experiencing loss because the wolf zone is empty of sheep? How will he ensure that grazing and agriculture can be kept alive in all parts of the country? They are, as we know, important for both biodiversity and biodiversity. How does the Council of State think that we should be able to maintain domestic drift when almost half of the calves are taken by predatory game in some states? I don't think the Council of State may have taken the seriousness of this report. In any case, I ask the Council of State to comment on the content of the report and comment not only on the predatory game policy, but also on how he wants one to develop the grazing industry and domestic farming further in Norway with the losses that one here has, and with the unacceptable animal welfare situation pointed out by the Food Authority.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e3466	Yes, it's true that the loss of tamrein went up last year, but if you look at it in a longer perspective, from 2013, there's still a drop of 11 pst. It's less than sheep, which from 2013 has been 46 or 47 pst, if I'm not wrong. I have definitely read the report from the Food Authority. I do not agree that we are not pursuing the two-part objective. I have also tried to follow up the question of the interpellation, which is: ‘What initiatives will the Council of State take to ensure that the two-part objective is met?’ These are the measures I have been going through, where licensing and quota hunting are the main instrument. We have changed the licensing period for wolves, so that you can get a more effective withdrawal in the spring, in connection with grazing animals. We make a permanent change in the use of artificial light by attack, camera surveillance, use of fishing booths by hunting for you, etc. There are extraordinary take-outs of predatory game, both, to which I referred, in the case of bear in tround layers, and by the fact that this year 33 individual animals have already been taken out of you and made 5 hi-takes of you. We have made sure that there is a readiness and as short a period of time as possible both in the Environment Directorate and at Fylkesmann. This is also followed up this year. We are conducting training on damage types. There is training of municipalities on preparedness for acute predatory situations. We've strengthened the State's natural view, SNO, by five million. kr this year, precisely to enable them to provide assistance more than one place at a time. And we're developing a supervisor from the SNO. Plus 10 million. In order to strengthen prevention and conflict mitigation measures, we are looking for long-term solutions in areas where there are often severe losses, as in the North-East Valley. Of course, you can apply for emergency treatment. All these measures are there just to have a management and follow up on the two-part objective – that we should have a grazing industry and a domestic farm while at the same time following up on the stock targets we have. There we are below the target for bear and under the Stortingen decision for gloupe, but are facing wolves and yerves. But then it's important... I can say that afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e3480	The predatory game agreement assured us of the two-part goal of stocking game and welfare for grazing animals, but we must repeatedly resort to the Storing in order to follow up that it will be fulfilled. Food surveillance lacks tools to address the lack of animal welfare, which occurs when predators damage domestic animals on the outback. More and more tambourines are taken by yerv and gloupe, and more sheep are taken by bear and wolf, at least in the last year. The bureaucracy and the square requirements for granting birth permits take food producers and farmers in Hedmark, Uppland and many more places in the country through a cruel waiting time. Crustaceans that breed near, up to or within pasture-prioritised areas make management hopeless, and sometimes the Food Authority feels that consideration of stock targets is ahead of animal welfare. It definitely experiences the pasturage too. We hope the Minister of Agriculture is looking at this. When the Minister for Climate and Environment is here today, he can definitely follow up with the Directorate for the Environment. Observations of wolves in Oppland were recently confirmed by the State's natural care department, but no permission for damages was granted. The Directorate for the Environment also asked the SNO to follow up the animals in cooperation with local licensees in order to assess how to implement the harm trap later. This takes too long. The farmers must release the grazing animals now that the fields become green and lush. Pasturage and open air are good animal welfare. It is also challenging that not enough yews were taken out during the winter hunting. For several years, the number of young Yews has been above the target population in Uppland. It has recently been applied to pasture-priority areas in the Gudbrand valley. If the predatory game agreement is to be filled in more than words, the environmental authorities must actually carry out the harvesting of predators in grazing priority areas and manage predators in predatory priority areas from the extent of damage. Food surveillance must be an instrument for the welfare of grazing animals. Destocking of predators in grazing priority areas that do not fill the quota through regular quota and licence hunting must be initiated via environmental authorities at the end of the hunting period. Uppland Farmers' Associations, Uppland Farmers' Associations and Uppland Sau and Geit entered into an agreement to expand the Yves' and Gupes' Zone in Uppland in 2011 to have a large enough area to reach the stock targets for you and gloat within the zones locally. They experience it as a major outburst when there are young people and family groups in the pasture priority areas, as well as individuals who do great damage outside the predatory areas. They know that the Environment Directorate does not follow up and do the measures needed to comply with management plans and the Agriculture extends far in order to safeguard the predatory nature of the predatory game settlement, in which case environmental management should do the same for the welfare of the grazing animals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e3499	‘The two-part objective’ was a basic concept of the robberies agreement: It was supposed to ensure a sustainable predatory stock. It would ensure the continued active and versatile use of the land resources and living communities. Unfortunately, today's government only follows up item No. 1st@item: inlistbox There's been a huge increase in the predatory wildlife population. For example, on the wolf we are lying. far above the stock target of the predatory game settlement without the government lifting a finger to come down against the stock target. And we'll see the result in full. It is sad to come home to the weekend and read the essays in the locals about sheep beans that now give up because of the predatory pressure, such as. Karstein Bergset, who was interviewed at the Court of Labour on 29 April. He built new poultry in 2013 because, as he says, there were good political signals for agriculture, and because in 2011 the predatory game deal gave good leadership for the predatory game management ahead. But the rapture settlement is not being followed up at all, unfortunately. Now the wallpaper of predators is so huge that the desire to run with sheep is gone, as he says. He and the family move away from the village, and four others in the Rendalen lay down and apply for means of conversion. That is, the number of winter - fed sheep in Rendalen is halved, and that is disastrous for the municipality. It loses jobs, the population goes down, housing declines, and the population grows again. The bloodbath in the North East Valley last year is the result of excessive wolf populations, lack of preventative withdrawals and a crazy training from the department in setting up breeding permits and facilitating effective hunting. The Food Authority points out that the requirement for genetic screening of wolves before bottling, even in pasture-prioritised areas, contributed greatly to additional damage last year. Food monitoring is evident in the summation of the grazing season 2018: there is a sharp increase in the loss of tamrein. Although the loss of lambs and sheep has declined on a national basis, there are still large annual losses in areas where there are sheep left. Torunn Knævelsrud points out in the report that the Food Safety Authority lacks tools, because unfortunately they cannot oblige environmental authorities to take out pests. This cannot continue. The two-part objective of the prey agreement must be met, otherwise the grazing industries will die out. Pasture-priority areas must be kept free from harmful predatory game. Preventive withdrawals at the front of the grazing season, indemnification and licence hunting must be made more effective. If not, we risk depopulation of these districts, and we risk re-growth of the villages. I expected the Council of State responsible for the robbery policy to read the Food Authority's report, but I obviously had unrealistic expectations, because the Council of State stood in place of the interlocutory and said that predatory game management is working well, that we have historically low losses. Of course, we have historically low losses in all the municipalities where there are now no sheep left because they have been displaced and because they have become predatory reserves. The councils even said that the loss of both sheep and domestic animals has been reduced. To quote the Food Authority in this report: ‘Tamrein loss is strongly increasing [[...]] What measures has the Council of State planned to take to address this issue? Norway has specific obligations to the reindeer industry by ratifying the ILO Convention. Here we contribute greatly to making it impossible to operate domestically in these areas if we do not ensure that they are free from harmful predators and have an effective extraction of pests.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e3523	First of all, I would like to thank the Elvestuen State Council for taking the trip to the Northland, to the Salt Mountain and the reindeer owners there. I hope that the council had a nice day, and that he uses the information and knowledge he got directly from those who know the industry in practice. Thanks also to Marit Arnstad, who raises an important matter in terms of this interpellation. I would like to point out that the government does not do its job. None of the parties in the government takes seriously the two-part goal of the Great Government in the game of robbers. This is the main reason for the concern and despair of the grazing industry and the Food Authority. When I was in charge of the robberies in Northern Ireland, I reacted strongly to the fact that the County of Nordland wrote the following on its website: ‘The main objective is to ensure viable populations of the four major predatory species and of the royal eagle. At the same time, it is an objective to maintain active agriculture in order to exploit the grazing resources for sheep and clean land.» I asked the secretary to mention removing this, because it is not in line with the predatory agreement to lift the predatory game as a primary goal and thus reduce grazing to a secondary goal. But it was not the County of Northern Ireland that had put this on the home page. The statement is on the websites of all statesmen under the theme ‘Rovvilt’. One of the first things I did at Stortinget was to check whether the government was behind such an interpretation of the robber agreement. I sent written questions to the Minister for Climate and Environment, Vidar Helgesen, from the Right. Since then I have asked the Councils of State Elvesuen, from the Left, Hoksrud, from the Party of Advancement, and Bollestad, from the Christian People's Party. Unfortunately, none of the representatives of the government parties want to lift a finger in order to balance the robberies settlement. I'm being provoked by the Council of State, which is going to increase the gloat population. It is therefore not possible to increase a globular population which is not recorded seriously and which largely lives on grazing animals in the north. 66 pst. av gaupas diet in the north is pure. That's two thirds of what it eats. About a quarter is small game, and the rest is sheep. The pure, which forms the main source of activity for gaupa, is the basis of life for those who are contaminating with reindeer. I've been talking to one of the reindeer owners on Helgeland, and he's desperate. He didn't have calves to slaughter. He did not teach the children to slaughter. They became more and more distant from culture and tradition. They actually almost couldn't afford to eat reindeer meat. He bought cheap pork at the store. The main objective of the government, predatory game, is the cause of the despair of the reindeer and the sheep farmers and the report of the Food Authority, which highlights major concerns in the current situation. Food surveillance believes that the most effective measure to prevent the loss of grazing animals to predators is to separate them in time and space. But it's almost impossible in Northernland, which is such a long and narrow state, with the border with Sweden, from which we get in predatory game all the time. It's reindeer pastures in absolutely the whole state, with the exception of the Lofoten and Vesterålen areas. There are also calving areas scattered throughout the county, and the grazing areas for sheep overlap about 100 pst. with gaupa area. We cannot sit still and wait for more bobbies to occur when both we and the Food Safety Authority believe that there must now be withdrawals at the front of the grazing season.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e3555	Thank you to the interpellant for making an important debate. The report of the Food Safety Authority is most revealing and shows that the Centre Party has pointed out that there is a disparity between grazing and predatory considerations. The majority of this room has clearly stated that there should be a two-fold, equivalent objective in predatory animal policy, namely the consideration of a viable strain of predators, but also the consideration of grazing, food production and the possibility of feeding resources in District Norway. I'm going to take a slightly different angle of incidence. I represent Eastfold. We have little reindeer in Eastfold, but we still have large areas that need care, need grazing. We have ravine areas against Glomma and the Øyer. We have areas in Marker and Aremark that are not suitable for grain production, but are suitable for grazing. We also have other beetles and meadows that need grazing. Although we now have a two-part objective and have the country divided into different zones, there is no ban on grazing animals in the so-called predatory zones, the wolf zones. However, in the case of Eastfold, the planning framework sent from the Environment Directorate to the predators, and also in Zone 3, i.e. including Eastfold, now states that conflict mitigation measures should not be applied if they contribute to an increase in the number of grazing animals, such as in Eastfold. In the past, no funds have been provided for anti-conflict measures such as predator-repellent fences. Hobbies, but they gave it to use where it was part of the diet. Now it's all over giving that kind of money to sheep farming in Eastfold. This is new to those I have spoken to in the agricultural administration in Eastfold. It is clear that hereafter you do not want to have this type of grazing in Eastfold, in Akershus and in the rest of Zone 3. Then the question is, is this the beginning of the end of all grazing within zone 3? Are the predators and the wolf to be given full priority? Or should we still be able to have open ravines against Glomma and the Eye, open meadows and landscapes in the inner Eastfold, on the Hyler Islands and on the coast? The breeding agreement in the Storting does not prohibit grazing in the predatory zones, even if predators are to take precedence, and even if there is to be a higher threshold for the collection of predators there than it should be outside the zone. This is a challenge for the Minister: how can we interpret this? If someone stops grazing – which is the case today – and others want to start, should you not give funds to predator-repellent fences to that type of herd? Or should there be the opportunity for others to start? We also see that the agricultural policy in this country has led to less grazing for cattle in these regions as well. That means that areas become lying fallow. It also means that it is highly problematic if people who want grazing animals do not have the opportunity to initiate it because they are refused applications for predatory fences and other anti-conflict measures. The question is: do we want further greening within Zone 3? Or should we continue to be able to use grazing and allow support for anti-conflict measures and predatory fences even within the so-called wolf zone?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e3572	Earlier today, the new UN Biodiversity Report has been addressed. One third of the diversity of species in Norway is linked to the cultural landscape. Pasturing and active farming is what keeps the cultural landscape open. What contributes to a good cultural landscape in Norway is active agriculture — small and large use across the country. But it is clear that the prerequisites for part of that agriculture and grazing industry will not be simple if the two-part objective of the predatory game settlement is not met. And the two-part objective is not only achieved by meeting stocking targets for predators; it must also be achieved by developing the grazing industry and domestic farming in a proper manner – providing them with the possibility of continued existence, simply, in large parts of the country. It was only the Center Party that found it worth participating in this interpellation – none from the Workers' Party, none from the Right, none from the Advance Party. There is a lack of respect for those who are affected by this administration, when the biggest parties of the Storting don't even want to participate. I guess all those who are affected by this outside of the country, remember exactly that: the ignorance of the other parties. Neither has any participation from these counties — from Hedmark, from Trøndelag, from Nordland and from Uppland. But I know I'm going to meet them in the election campaign, and then they're still going to agree with the Center Party – as long as they're outside this house. Unfortunately, we are facing a new bloody predatory season. It has recently started, with wolf attacks in Hyllestad in Sogn and Fjordane. Trygve Solaas found a dead sheep 150 meters from his barn. The state's nature oversight fears more damage. This is definitely a grazing priority area. It's one of our most important sheep areas. The Food Authority’s report is just a serious warning against what may lie ahead of us, and what we saw today’s first example. But it is obvious that the government does not take that warning seriously. The Minister of Agriculture does not even stand up and talk about his own sector, and the Minister of Climate Change seems more concerned about how to change other parts of the predatory game settlement than to achieve the two-part objective. For now, obviously the predators will have to be decimated. This will mean that there will be fewer critical voices also outside this room, and that one will thus try to suffocate the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e3584	I believe that in this debate I best represent those who want us to maintain a two-part objective, both by having a grazing industry – there are two million sheep grazing in Norway; the number has not fallen – and by having low stocking targets in the domestic areas of Norway, just to assume that we are to take care of tamrein. In the case of wolves, no part of the wolf zone enters domestic areas. The Ministry of Climate and Environment is actively working towards agricultural policy, also more generally. Among other things, we have have doubled the number of cultural landscapes selected in recent years, which is an important part of ensuring biodiversity. We're also concerned that we're going to continue to reduce the wild game traps, while at the same time we need to know more about the other losses. For it is also stated in the report of the Food Safety Authority: they indicate that 18 000 sheep and lambs have been taken from wild game, but then from a loss of 97 000 sheep. So we need to know more about the other losses in order to follow up animal welfare also in several areas. Then I would like to remind you that the two-part objective is also to follow up the stock objectives, the Berne Convention and the Nature Diversity Act. It is also in the decisions of the Stortinget. I hear a great deal of concern about where we are, about you, and there we have great outlets, already 33 animals exceptionally far this year. For wolves, it seems that we can catch between 7.5 and 8.5 young people, i.e. less than in 2018, while on the bear and gaupe we are under. Then it's also in the task I have, to follow up, so that we also reach those goals. Then it is important to bear in mind that although we follow, and when, the stock targets of the law set by the Storting will still be critically threatened in Norway. Jerv, bear and gaupe will be heavily threatened in Norway. It's also part of the predatory game deal. In previous articles, I have tried to tell you about all the initiatives – as it was asked – we are taking to get more efficient game management, while developing grazing and domestic farming in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e3599	The debate on substance is closed. So 11 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e3616	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e3634	Let's go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e3643	The President proposes that the statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs on important EU and EEA matters, held at the meeting of the European Council on 9 May, be annexed to the Protocol. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e3651	Four proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, from Audun Lighthouse on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 4, from Bears Moxnes on behalf of Red There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to exercise its power of ownership in the arms company Nammo to shut down Nammo’s export office in the United Arab Emirates, which is involved in the war against Yemen.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e3677	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1–3, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assess whether the definition of war and civil war should be amended in order to prevent the sale of military material to countries participating in armed conflicts with major civil disorders.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to determine whether the distinction between product categories A and B should be amended in order to ensure that Norwegian military equipment is not used in violation of international law.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget assessing whether the establishment of the sales office in the United Arab Emirates participating in the war in Yemen is compatible with Norwegian international agreements and obligations.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e3713	Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e3727	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e3732	There are obviously several people who have voted incorrectly, and then we take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e3919	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e3929	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e3938	Four proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, from Anette Trettebergstuen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 4, from Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen on behalf of the Center Party There is a vote on proposal No. Four from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose the transfer of aid schemes, which are currently granted to art and cultural institutions from the Council of Culture and from the Ministry of Culture and which are not subject to peer reviews, to regional elected bodies.’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e3962	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-3 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government of the State budget for 2020 is asked to start work on the winding-up of the gift-enhancing scheme. The government is requested to provide an assessment of the actors who lose more money in the closure of the scheme and how they should be compensated if appropriate. ‘... Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to identify and assess the State support schemes of the Council of Culture and departments or of the Directorates which are currently provided directly or through government administration for local and/or regional cultural, sport and volunteering purposes, and to propose which of these should be channelled and managed by local or regional elected bodies.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to the Grand Duchy after they have notified investigations and dialogues between the Ministry of Culture and the new regions, so that the Grand Duchy can decide on the specific cultural tasks to be transferred to the regional level, as well as on the art and cultural institutions to have national and/or regional status.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e4023	During the debate, Sheida Sangtarash has put forward four proposals on behalf of the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government requests the establishment of several new LIS1 positions as soon as possible, in line with the Health Directorate’s recommendation, and then ensure that annual assessments of the need for LIS1 are carried out.’; Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks for a scheme in which a certain number of the new LIS1 positions are linked to ALIS positions.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a precise overview of the scope of so-called post doctors in the hospitals and to return to the Stortinget with measures to ensure that the tasks performed by postal doctors today will be carried out in the future by doctors in the LIS1 service.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked, after the Grimstad Committee has presented its report, to present a stepping-up plan to increase the number of Norwegian primary education places in medicine, so that the educational capacity is better suited to the needs of healthcare providers.’ Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up. The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e4071	In the course of the debate, a total of ten proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Ingvild Kjerkol on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 3, from Ingvild Kjerkol on behalf of the Workers' Party the proposals No 4-8, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 9 and 10, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Centre Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4-8, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to present a separate case to the Storting on the consequences of the patient offer in the Health More and Romesdal HF specialist services, resulting in about 500 million savings from the healthcare provider. SEK in annual operating costs to realise the construction of a new hospital on the Health.’» Proposal No. 5 sounds: «The Government asks the Government to comply with Stortinget’s decision No. 750 and immediately instruct Health Moor and Romsdal HF not to lay down the maternity ward in Kristiansund. [[2017-2018]] Any future changes in food supply and preparedness must be submitted to the Storting [[(see section 4.4). Health Business Act § 30)]] Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to stop Health Mid-Norway and Romsdal HF its decision of 27 March 2019 on 24 hours’ treatment at Sjöholt DPS.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure further operation in the rehabilitation services of Aure and Mork.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to stop the process of outsourcing reindeer services in hospitals in Molde and Kristiansund.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e4126	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to follow up its decision No. 750 and do not approve the closure of the maternity ward in Kristiansund until the start of the new hospital at Hjelset has been established. [[2017-2018]] A request from the government to compensate for this in the future budget.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e4143	There is a vote on proposal No. Ten, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to replace Health More and Romsdal HF with today’s cross-country clinic lease with urban lease at the somatic hospitals in Kristiansund, Molde, Ålesund and Volda. Stately tenants shall have professional, staff and financial responsibilities in each hospital.’;» The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e4160	There is a vote on proposal No. 9 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests follow-up of Decision No Storting. 750 and do not approve the closure of the maternity ward in Kristiansund, until the maternity ward in the new health centre is in operation.» The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have given their support to the proposal. The Workers' Party has notified subsidiary aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e4194	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and the proposals No. 1 and 2 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that the specialist services of Health More and Romesdal HF do not reduce the supply of services to the municipalities until they are able to handle the new tasks and until a corresponding service provision is built up in the municipalities.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government in the letter of assignment of healthcare companies to provide guidance on outsourcing of cleaning services.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e4238	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Sandra Borch on behalf of the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment proposal No 2, from Sandra Borch on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 3, from Sandra Borch on behalf of the Centre Party proposal No 4, by Lars Haltbrecken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Greens the proposals No 5 and 6, from Une Bastholm on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA There is a vote on proposal No. 4, by the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the withdrawal of the Nussir ASA operating concession for mining at Repparfjord and does not grant an operating concession to Nordic Mining for mining at Engebøjellet.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e4273	There is a vote on proposal No. Three, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to assess different alternatives that reduce the need for land and fjord landfill to an absolute minimum before granting an operating concession for mining on the Engebøjellet.’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e4288	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5 and 6 by the Greens. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to investigate and propose measures to increase the reuse and recycling of construction waste, infrastructure which is no longer in use. [[e.g. buried pipes and cables]] Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking for an assessment of how take-off masses from mining can be reused to a greater extent than at present in order to increase resource efficiency and reduce the need for landfill, and to return to Storting in an appropriate manner.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e4312	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to stop the operating concession and to make a fisheries professional assessment to identify the consequences of a maritime landfill in Repparfjord.’ Red has announced support for the proposal. The Greens have announced subsidized aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e4331	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a general requirement that alternatives reducing the need for land and fjord landfills to an absolute minimum have been identified before granting an operating concession for mining operations.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e4356	The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e4373	During the debate, Mr Haltbrecken put forward two proposals on behalf of the Socialist Left and the Greens. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate and propose a legal framework for marine protection areas in the exclusive economic zone.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to submit a plan for the protection of 10 pst. of Norway’s territorial waters and exclusive economic zone by 2020, including the areas recommended by the Advisory Committee on the Marine Protection Plan in 2003.’» Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up. Red has announced support for the proposals. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e4406	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e4415	Case No. 12 is the second time the law is handled and applies to the law decision 55. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-14.ana.ud35e4489	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
