ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e28	The called alternate of the Nordland County, Kjell-Idar Juvik, now takes the seat. The request for an exemption from the meeting of the alternate representative of the Rogaland County, Aase Simonsen, from 13 February to 16 February to take part in the OECD Parliamentary Committee meeting in Paris, is received from the Højres Grossingsgruppe. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. Other alternates of the Rogaland County, Trine Danielsen, are invited to meet in the Stortinget on 13 and 14 February.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e53	Step Danielsen is present and will take the seat. The representative, Karin Andersen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e60	On behalf of Arne Nävra, Freddy André Øvstegård, Kari Elisabeth Kaski, Petter Eide and myself, I would like to make proposals to tighten up the quarantine system for former members of the government, state secretaries and political advisors in the government apparatus.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e65	The representative, Kjersti Toppe, will present two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e70	I would like to make a representative proposal from Siv Mossleth, Willfred Nordlund, Marit Knutsdatter Strand and myself that the training of medical specialists should meet their needs. Then I would like to make a representative proposal from Per Olaf Lundtägen, Geir Inge Lien and myself to stop financially motivated cuts in patients' services in healthcare companies and stop the closure of the maternity ward and daily treatment at DPS and rehabilitation in More and Romesdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e77	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e93	On Monday the Stortingen received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State will meet Siv Jensen, Monica Mæland and Iselin Nybø for oral Question Time. The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e102	I am delighted to ask the Minister of Finance a question. It is about the use of oil money and the rule of action, which has served Norway well. How much oil money can we spend in our economy in a way that is good for the country, with transparency for those who will follow, and in a way that does not cause us to lose control of the economy, as many other oil-rich states have done? They have experienced increased prices, increased interest rates, increased currency, and the economy has come out of control. The rule of action is also guaranteed transparency; we can see where the money is carried and where it is used. Now this is put into play. The Ministry of Finance is now investigating a system for which we have to pay for it, we have heard a sunk frigate and a bombed government quarter, right from the pension fund, i.e. not above the usual budget, but it has to be investigated whether we can't take the money from there, like some kind of insurance fund. So it's our children's pension money that's going to pay for it. This is because the action space is now small – it has shrunk after high-record oil money usage – and it is a quest for simple, smart solutions. What interests me when the Ministry of Finance has started this work is that I have not seen one leading economist, not one leading economic environment that has said that this is a good idea – going outside the budget, going under the line, as you say, taking money that is normally used in a completely different way, to pay for consumption. Then I would like to ask the Minister of Finance a question: Where are these mistakes? Do they misunderstand when they warn against what the Granavolden platform opens for?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e111	I can assure the representative Gahr Støre that the government has led and will continue to conduct a responsible economic policy. During the entire working time of this government, we have kept far below the framework of the rule of action, even at the time when we gave extra gas in the Norwegian economy to compensate for the oil price drop. The economic policy of this government has served the country well. We quickly got out of the consequences of the oil price fall because we had a targeted package of measures against the South and the West. We were able to put free hands into work. We were helped to ensure that companies that were at risk of going beyond the end got better framework conditions, so that they could again start looking optimistically at the future and hire more. I can assure you that the government will continue to pursue a responsible economic policy. It is true that the Granavolden platform contains a formulation that the government should examine the self-insurance principle. The Ministry of Finance is doing so now. But regardless of the outcome of that investigation, I can assure the representative that the government will continue to pursue a responsible economic policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e118	There was no answer to the question. I know that the Minister of Finance and this government are leading and have pursued an economic policy that she is in favour of. The question is, what does this open up to? Now that the action space is shrinking, the Minister of Finance sees that she may have room to phase in 1 or 2 billion new oil crowns into that budget. She has years behind where she has phased in record sums, and then you look for other ways to do things. My question was: has she seen one leading economic environment – in addition to its fiscal numerator, which is an economic environment – that supports the way of thinking, that we can pay for consumption, pay for building new buildings, pay for recovering sunken frigates outside the budget in that way? Can she mention an economic environment that supports that idea?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e125	I think we're getting a much more fruitful debate on this when these economic environments know what the government is actually going to do. Now we're going to ask this question – in a situation where we can get a lot of money. I basically agree that we need to find room in the budgets through re-priorities. I took note of that debate in connection with the spontaneous question hour last week, when the Prime Minister was here, that several of the opposition's parties finally began to discuss the need to make cuts and re-priorities. It has made this government throughout its working time, we have put forward a wide range of proposals for the Storting on cuts and re-priorities, which, not exactly, what to say, have awakened general 'approach' in this room. But it is still right to continue to do so, so I can assure you that we will continue to conduct a responsible economic policy, and I can also assure you that we are going to have a completely different debate based on the facts, based on a real investigation when it is done, and not on hypothetical issues that are caricatured by the Workers' Party at the moment.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e130	There will be follow-up questions – first Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e135	So there was no answer to that question. But now the Prime Minister has said that this was her idea, and the head of the Finance Committee says it's a smart solution. But it is interesting for the Progress Party, because the programme on which Siv Jensen was elected for 2017-2021 states that it wants to ‘replace today’s rule of action with a new anchor for economic policy’. One wants to distinguish investment and consumption, and one wants to go to the pension fund and pay for investment in infrastructure and ‘central building mass’. And I have to say, the government quarter meets the requirement to be a central building mass. Financial figures in the Progress Party, Bjørnstad, say that they want to make extraordinary purchases and investments from the oil fund. So if this investigation -- which is about assuring ourselves in the oil fund, we're going to pick up the money when something extraordinary happens -- shows that that's the way to go, is that a victory for the economic policy of the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e140	I don't think I'm going to take the goal of defining what the different parties fought for in Granavolden. What is the case is that all the parties are behind everything in the Granavolden platform, and have ambitions to implement it in line with the formulations. So, as the representative knows very well, the Ministry of Finance has been given the task of investigating this question. That's what we're doing. Then it is unwise for the Minister of Finance to advance what sort of conclusion it is going to be. We're going to do that investigation in a proper way. What I can assure you is that we're going to continue to do what we've already done. It's true that we phase oil money into the Norwegian economy, but this government has been busy spending it on things that generate growth. We've invested in infrastructure, we've invested in knowledge, we've invested in the things that we know are growth-promoting for the Norwegian economy, and we're doing it to a significantly greater extent than the government of Jonas Gahr Støre himself was part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e147	Jonas Gahr Støre – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e152	It is not uninteresting what a finance minister thinks about this in relation to his party programme. I am aware that the Granavolden platform is on the ground, but the Progress Party is very clear in its programme – on which the Council of State is elected – that you want to replace the action rule, and that you want to separate consumption and investment. One wants to do what other countries have done, which means that one loses control of the economy, and that one gets increased prices, increased interest rates, increased exchange rates, which is bad for households and business — much of what has been important in the years behind us. Norway is full of unforeseen events. We are a country with an exposed nature, exposed weather, climate change is going to do things. Now we hear that the costs of the frigate KNM “Helge Ingstad” are not to be taken this way. The Minister of Defence said it should be taken within the defence budget. The defense says that you might not want to replace it. Maybe we need to find other solutions. The Minister of Finance is running the investigation and has given a mandate to his people. Obviously there are no economists outside to do this. What other extraordinary expenses can be considered with such a scheme? The government bill is still there now, and it's going to cost a lot of money. Can she mention examples of other such expenses?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e162	I think I will repeat what I have now said several times: when you investigate a question, you have to finish that work before you can present the final conclusions for public debate and discussion in the Stortinget. We're going to do this in a real way. What's on the Granavolden platform is, of course, honest. It is also quite right that the Progress Party is committed to pursuing an economic policy that facilitates growth, value creation and more jobs. We do that by reducing taxes and taxes, which strengthens value creation. We do that by increasing investment in infrastructure. We're betting on research and development. We also do that by being concerned with limiting public intervention towards both businesses and individuals. That's a wise way to run politics, and we're going to keep doing that in the future too.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e169	Jonas Gahr Støre – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e174	This may be on the verge of saying in Stortinget, but this was 'bla, blah'. This was a summary of what everyone seems to be hearing: conduct a responsible policy, do the right things. But when a government opens up a fundamental shift in the way we plan and describe the economy, and the way we spend money, and says that the children's and grandchildren' pension funds are now to be used for both investments and payments for consumption outside the ordinary budget, the Minister of Finance cannot say that they have led a responsible economic policy. She must explain and elaborate what it is. She's running an investigation she's responsible for. What is to be investigated? Is the Minister for Finance finally able to describe the mandate she has given to the Ministry of Finance? What are her people sitting there investigating, and when is the Storting going to get it treated?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e181	The size is going to get it treated when the investigation is ready.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e186	Jonas Gahr Støre – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e191	It was an interesting contribution from the Minister of Finance, the Minister of State, who now sent this signal: whoever wants nothing done is ordering an investigation. The progress party will have done something. They have a party program where they say they want away from the rule of action. They'll use the pension fund for fun and investment right now. It's irresponsible and creates uncertainty. And what the Minister of Finance has said here does not give cause for reassurance.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e196	It is quite alarming if a so-called state-supporting party such as the Workers' Party believes that the Ministry of Finance should not properly address such questions before they are brought before the Stortinget for treatment. I rather believe on the contrary that resolving questions really is one of the prerequisites of a government. Then we can take the debate, based on what the government is going to recommend the Storting to do. Now there's a hypothetical debate that I think it's wrong to go into. But what I can assure you is the same thing as the Prime Minister has done: the government is going to continue to pursue a responsible economic policy that has helped us to see growth across the country, the economy is growing, unemployment is falling, more people are going to work. There are many signs that the government's economic policy is working. It's a policy we're going to continue to lead and will do more of it in the future, along with all of the points we now have to deal with in the follow-up to the Granavolden platform.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e201	Sigbjørn Gülsvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e206	It is quite right, as the Minister of Finance says, that the government has put forward clear priorities. It has become massive tax cuts to those who have the most from before, and those who have to bear the bill are the future pensioners and people most through increased taxes. It's not just that you've made sure to spend massively with oil money, you've also increased the fees a lot. When the Central Party proposes to raise toll collection, the Advance Party calls it a symbol policy. In the years ahead, toll collection is planned so much that one government quarter of a year could be built for tolls. Only the increase that has been in the fees during Siv Jensen's reign is enough to buy one frigate per year. Then the question is, how will it develop in the future? Do you want to pick up more and more money from future pensioners, or do you want to increase the fees more and more for ordinary people?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e213	I think I should remind the representative Gelsvik that this government has reduced the overall tax burden by about 25 billion. kr since we joined. It has not only benefited the so-called rich, as the representative claims. It has benefited all the inhabitants of the country. More than half of the benefits have gone to income less than NOK 600 000. It has been important for the government both to give relief to business, so that they can profit and hire more, and it has been important to give relief to ordinary people, ordinary households, so that they get more to walk with. Then I have not recorded that the Storting has disagreed with the budgetary impulse that the government has committed in the annual budgets – rather on the contrary. There has been broad agreement that the use of oil money entered into the budgets by the government has followed the opposition. In other words, the speed, the adjustments, in the budgets cannot have been so paralysed as the Storting has agreed. To the question of toll ceilings: When the Senterpartiet was last in government, the toll percentage was 40 p.m. Now it's down to 28 pst. That means it's going the right way for the drivers.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e220	Kari Elisabeth Kaski – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e226	I hear the Minister of Finance says that the opposition has agreed to this oil money usage. It is with respect to report completely wrong. Never before has a government experienced that the opposition then until those degrees have been allowed to spend less money than this government has experienced. No government has spent as much money as this government. Then we hear the Minister of Finance say that this has gone to investment and growth promotion. Yes, you can choose to call 25 billion. That's exactly what I'm going to do, of which I'm going to have $1.4 billion. kr alone has gone to the 0,1 pst. the richest part of the population. So maybe now, when the Minister of Finance chooses to call this growth-promoting, we can get answers to what we've been trying to get answers for a long time: how many new jobs have the tax cuts given? And can the government show that the tax cuts have given rise to economic growth?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e233	It is an honest matter that SV is not particularly concerned about reducing tax pressure in Norway. I believe it is crazy medicine, and I believe that what the government has done, both related to reducing taxes and taxes, to increase investment, to invest in research and to invest in good, safe and predictable framework conditions for Norwegian business, has produced results. It's going well in the Norwegian economy. The growth is rising. Employment is rising. New SSB figures came at the latest today suggesting that development only continues in a positive direction. I think that's a good enough answer. The sum of the measures and instruments put into effect by this government. So it's going well. Growth in the Norwegian economy is widespread. It comes in many industries throughout the country. That's a good sign, and we're going to enjoy it. Then I understand that the easiest medicine for SV is to increase taxes for ordinary people and for businesses to finance expensive, new welfare schemes. I think it's a bad idea because it also affects our ability to facilitate new growth and value creation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e240	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e245	My question goes to the finance minister and party leader in the Progress Party, Siv Jensen. Our shores with great value creation. In 2018, Norway sold seafood – such as salmon, cod and mackerel – to the rest of the world for about 100 billion. kr. Where the Central Party sees viable value creation and jobs in the districts, the government and the Minister of Finance see the possibility of introducing a new state extra tax. The values created by fishing and farming shall be taken from local communities for more money into the national fund. The centre party will ensure that the activities carried out in fisheries and fish farming are of benefit to local communities. It doesn't want the Minister of Finance and the government and, therefore, has reduced a selection to pay a state extra tax on salmon farming. If a state extra tax is introduced, communities along the coast will lose much of their current income from farming. The Government Party has previously argued in Stortinget that such a State extra tax may allow for general tax charges. The recipe is recognizable: The money will be taken from the districts to finance the government's tax festival at Aker Brygge. The government's work on a state extra tax for the farming industry creates uncertainty for the farming industry in Norway and uncertainty for Norwegian jobs. Why is the government so concerned about introducing a new state extra tax on salmon farming?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e254	Let me first say that I fully agree with the representative Pollestad that it is important to facilitate growth and value creation throughout the country. It's also a fact that a lot of the growth we see in many important industries has headquarters in the districts -- it's sea food, it's other things that are important value creators for Norway, and that employ many and give us great values. It is the Storting that has asked the government to set up a party-based sample to investigate a possible extra tax on aquaculture. The government has. That selection is led by Professor Karen Helene Ulltveit-Moe. Work is in progress, but it's not done. It is only when the sample has been completed with its recommendations and conclusions that the government will decide on whether to follow this up and, if so, on how to do so. What has also been important to us is that, in addition to having a party-based sample, we also have a forum for this sample, which consists of different environments of expertise and representatives of the organisations, precisely because we want this to be a broad debate, where all the views related to this emerge – as a basis for a possible decision at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e263	I do not feel that I am getting an answer to the question, and it is important to say that even if the Storting has asked for such a settlement, the party for which Siv Jensen is the leader is involved in this order. The centre party did not want to start such a work, and what is bad is that a letter that such a new tax could provide a basis for reducing the general level of taxation. So it's the way you see a nourishment in the districts that goes well. Then start working on introducing a tax on that industry in order to lower the general level of taxation, and it's a district hostile policy. Then my question is: does the Minister of Finance not want values created in the districts to contribute to growth and development and good communities in the districts?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e268	Yes, the Minister of Finance wants that. This is precisely why it is important that we have a good framework for business throughout the country. I have to say, I think it's a little alarming if the representative Pollestad believes that reducing the overall level of taxation would not benefit the districts. Enterprises located in District Norway are also concerned that we should have a competitive tax level – many of these companies compete internationally. It has been one of the reasons why it has been important for this government to do something about the distance between us and other countries related to corporate tax. It was high. The difference between us and other countries began to become demanding. We have now reduced that gap, but we are still among those countries in the Nordic region at the highest rate. It is clear that it is important, it is clear that it means something – for Norwegian businesses, for district jobs – that they have a competitive level of taxation and competitive framework conditions. It's important. That's why the government has reduced the tax, and that's why we're going to keep busy with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e275	There will be follow-up questions – first Marit Arnstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e280	The Minister of Finance does not answer a lot of questions here today. She's hiding behind one investigation after another, whether it's a rule of action or a land-interest tax. This is about whether or not to introduce a new State tax on fisheries and aquaculture. Coastal reactions are already very strong. There's two reasons for that, I think. One is that one sees what many professionals also say, namely that it is easier to tax local activities than mobile capital, and one should tax the natural resources harder. The second is that it is also about state taxes in relation to the income of the community. It is alarming if the Progress Party intends to apply this type of new state tax to an important industry. Does the Council understand the reactions that have come along the coast, and does she agree that such a new state tax is unfortunate?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e289	I think we have all come to realize that there is a debate both along the coast and in the rest of the country related to a possible tax on aquaculture. But again: First of all, I think it is wrong to claim that I do not answer questions. I got a question about this reduced sample. I've answered that. We have reduced the sample as requested by Stortinget. They are now investigating this issue thoroughly and properly with reference groups around them, precisely in order for us to have a good professional debate on the possible consequences of any such introduction. The government has not taken a decision on this, but Stortinget has asked us to put down a sample to ask the question. So let's do that. So I think there are some important principles in taxation. One principle is that natural resources should be taxed in such a way that profits fall to the community. It is a healthy principle, whether it has been oil taxation or other underlying issues, in Norway. That means that we can provide resources to the whole country, provide growth and value creation across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e296	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e302	The council still refers to orders from Stortinget, so let's be very direct to who that order was from. It was from the Right, from the Advance Party, from the Left, from the Christian People's Party, and from the Workers' Party. It wasn't from the Center Party. We have never been on such an order. On the other hand, we have a strong understanding of those outside the country who are now responding and are very concerned about this idea that local activities should be taxed harder, that new taxes should be introduced on natural resources and that new state taxes should be introduced. Since the Council of State believes that she is now answering questions, I would like to repeat my question: Does she think that a new type of state tax on this type of business is unfortunate?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e311	What I think is unfortunate is if we were to get into a situation where we started to tighten the overall level of taxes and taxes in Norway. It would not be in favour of either the fishing and farming industry or other industries in Norway. I am therefore pleased that the Centre Party is now beginning to realize the importance of having lower taxes and taxes in Norway. That is not exactly what has been the debate when the government has presented its annual budget proposals with proposals to reduce the overall tax burden. The creativity of the centre party in increasing various taxes and taxes, we see in their alternative budget. This government is committed to reducing the overall tax burden. We're going to keep doing that in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e316	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e321	My question also goes to the Minister of Finance. The inequality of power and wealth in Norway is increasing, and one of the most important tools we have to do something about it is a strong welfare state. It's our welfare that's the key to redistribution. Therefore, we must be willing to prioritize today's well-being and build on our broad well-being. In Norway, they're taking their kingdoms away. The wealthiest part of the population in Norway goes from the rest much faster than in countries such as France, the Netherlands and Spain. The richest percentage in Norway today owns a quarter of all wealth. That means that the remainder, 99 pst. by us, divide by the remaining three quarters. The richest also get an ever-increasing share of income. At the same time, the lowest wages have been relatively low in wage developments since 2008. The income of families with children and single dependants is growing slower than for the rest. Over 100,000 young people are growing up in poor families in Norway, and the number is increasing. However, it is important to remember that inequality is not just about billionaires and poor children; it is also about good welfare, about school, hospitals, hospitals. A strong welfare state is perhaps the most important tool we have for creating a society with strong communities and small differences. Without a health service governed by what kind of needs you have and not what kind of insurance you can afford, without a common school that includes everyone, without schemes that take care of those who fall off the labour market, without strong unions that ensure a tidy working life, the inequalities are going to shoot speed and increase even faster than they do today. The importance of our well-being should be a broad consensus on, but understanding of its importance depends on the willingness to recognise that differences in Norway are increasing, and that will determine the willingness to invest in welfare. So first let me start with a simple question: Does the Minister of Finance agree that the differences in Norway are increasing?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e332	Let me first say that I agree with a lot of the reality description that Kaski's representative had, especially that having good, tax-funded welfare schemes is good for a society, because it helps to keep the inequalities low. It is true that inequalities have increased in some groups in the Norwegian community — not least related to immigrant families. In a short time, the government will present a big message on this, highlighting different developments in society, and pointing out how we can continue to work to keep the inequalities as low as possible in Norway. There is quite a broad political consensus that we should have a society of small inequalities. We're going to be glad that we're one of the few countries in the world that actually have small differences. But it doesn't come of itself; we have to keep working on it. That's why we have tax-funded welfare schemes where it's not the wallet that decides whether you have access to healthcare, care and education. It's one of the forces of our society, and I feel there's a broad consensus that we're going to continue to take care of. But the precondition for us to get to that in the future is that we're going to make sure that anyone who can work in our society actually works. We know that in the group we often refer to as those who are out of work, there are a lot of people who want to get a foot in the world of work. If we are able to do this, we will also increase the basis for ensuring the financing of our welfare systems, which is also about facilitating those who cannot work to feel safe through the various income insurance schemes we actually have in our welfare systems.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e343	I heard at least that in different groups the inequalities are increasing, but it will be interesting to see the conclusion in the Storing Communication on whether the inequalities are increasing overall in Norway. Under this government, we can at least see that the unrest is growing in more and more parts of the Community-Norway. After five years of both systematic cut and tight budgets from government to welfare, we see some fundamental services weakening. In various parts of our well-being, employees are calling for warnings. In the last year, we have seen the beginning of an emerging welfare uprising, a rebellion against the blue policy of underfinancing and privatisation of well-being. We see it with kindergarten riots, we've seen a riot of childbirth, there's a great deal of anxiety in our criminal care, and now the #heians campaign is going on, where child-restraint workers are sounding the alarm. Let me ask, when we see that those who can do so are alarming: is the Minister of Finance satisfied with the state budget's commitment to well-being?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e350	I believe that every year the government has focused on further developing and safeguarding our welfare systems. That is why we continue to strengthen the allocations to hospitals, so that hospitals can increase patient treatment. That is why we provide a strong local economy, so that the basic care services for which the municipalities are responsible are financed. I do not agree with the actual description of this so-called strong unrest, kindergarten riots, etc. On the contrary, we see from all studies that there are parents with children in private kindergartens who are most satisfied with the offer they receive. It is an offer that SV and others want to go after and re-communalise — put chains in the wheels in order to continue to develop a good and well-functioning private kindergarten offer in Norway. So the premise of the kindergarten agreement was equal treatment for public and private kindergartens. Once it was agreed by the SV and the Progress Party. I record that SV is in glide flight away from that principle.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e355	It opens for follow-up questions – first Kari Elisabeth Kaski.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e360	I want to come back to the kindergartens, but first let me go to the hospitals, which the Minister of Finance also started with. Because in our hospitals and hospitals, more and more nurses, assistant nurses, doctors and health professionals are standing up and telling us how too much part-time time and use of rentals go out on patients. Since 2012, Norwegian hospitals have spent 4.3 billion dollars. to hire health professionals. The general board of trust at Ahus says that this goes beyond quality, and the Norwegian Association of Nurses is clear that many hospitals have too low basic staff, there are too few people at work. At the same time, hospitals report tighter budgets and the need for reduced supply and cutting. After all, it is not long until the revised budget – the work on the state budget for 2020 is under way. In the light of the health warnings given by the Minister of Finance, can the hospitals promise a severe economic upturn in this year's budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e365	I think the representative Kaski knows very well that profiling things that had to come into the state budget for 2020 does not do a finance minister. What I can assure you is that we're going to continue with what we've already done all year long: we've strengthened the hospitals' economy, so that patient care can go up. Then we've been very clear that involuntary part-time we have to do everything we can to combat it. There are many issues related to the development of the hospital economy that I think it would be better for the representative Kaski to address the Minister of Health rather than the Minister of Finance. From a budgetary point of view, this has been one of the priorities of the government, knowing that it is important that people go as short as possible ill and can get to work as soon as possible after they have been treated in our excellent healthcare system.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e372	Kari Elisabeth Kaski – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e378	Let me then move on to the kindergartens, since the Minister of Finance was also involved. Through 2018, 27,000 parents and employees have signed a contract on a contract that requires better staffing in our kindergartens. The Government has provided a staffing standard that is strongly underfunded and which is not close to meeting that need. A matter that should have been a matter of pleasure has been received with such strong criticism that it has actually created a rebellion among the employees and the parents. The nursery norm looks good on the paper, but it doesn't match the reality out there. We in SV believe that the employees and the parents deserve to be taken seriously. That is why we have made proposals for a staff standard that would have given at least a thousand more employees in Norwegian kindergartens compared to the government's model. Will the Minister of Finance and Government support SV's proposals, which in particular ensure adequate funding for kindergartens and our well-being, and which actually meet the needs out there?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e387	I think I should remind you that it is the Minister of Finance who meets in the spontaneous question hour and not the Minister of Knowledge, or the Minister of Health for that matter, so I ask for an understanding that I cannot go into detail on various questions about the standard of personnel and other questions about kindergartens. Such questions should be asked to the Minister of Knowledge. Having said that, on a general basis, I would say that we have taken action through several decisions taken by the Storting to strengthen the staffing of our kindergartens, and we will continue to follow it up in line with the decisions made by the Storting. But this is how we have a good kindergarten offer in Norway, and I will be allowed to say that the SV and the Progress Party can, after all, take some of the credit for it, since we were the initiators of the original kindergarten agreement, to which several parties subsequently joined. This led to a large-scale expansion of kindergartens in Norway, including private ones, because we were concerned with non-discrimination. Now there are many parties who believe that it should end non-discrimination. I think that's the most disturbing thing about what's happening now.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e394	Kari Elisabeth Kaski – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e399	It is the Minister of Finance who meets, and the Minister of Finance is responsible for our budgets and ultimately for the financing of our well-being. So now there's a riot going on in Velferds-Norway. Among other things, over the past few weeks, we have seen hundreds of child-restraint workers around the country who have demanded increased staffing in the municipal child-rescue services under the topic nagging #heies. The campaign is a response to Erna Solberg's New Year speech, where she asks for more success stories from child protection. And if we're going to have more success stories from child protection, we're going to need more people to work. Unfortunately, the government has canceled the child-restraint lift. In 2019, there will be no new posts on the State budget. Since 2015, the state budget has financed fewer and fewer new posts in child protection, contrary to the need. So the question goes back to the Minister of Finance: can we now see a government budget that prioritizes our well-being, and that takes seriously all the employees who are warning about the lack of staff?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e410	We may also see a well-balanced budget in the state budget for 2020, which takes into account both the need to further develop and secure the welfare systems of this society and to facilitate safe jobs. The prerequisite that we can develop and secure the well-being of this country is that people go to work, and that we have good, profitable businesses that have the ability and ability to employ even more people. If we fail to do so, it will be challenging for any government to finance welfare schemes in the future – without income. Therefore, it is important that we also have a look at how the framework for competition is for our business, and then there is the wrong recipe, which SV is constantly pointing out, that we should increase the taxes on Norwegian business. I believe that we should continue the work we are doing, by reducing them, so that they have the competitiveness and the ability to hire more, so that we can continue to fund good, safe welfare schemes in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e417	Rigmor Aasrud – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e422	In the Minister of Finance's first reply to the representative, Kaski, we could hear a hint of concern about the increased disparities in Norway, but last week the government parties voted down a proposal in this Chamber, where we asked the government to put forward a plan to reduce the economic differences in Norway. In the opening of the government negotiations up at Granavolden, the head of the Finance Committee, Henrik Asheim, promoted a demand that there should be lower taxes on wealth and no to expensive welfare reforms. Does the Minister of Finance think this is a good move to reduce differences in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e427	Let me first say that there is really no point in adopting a plan when the government will soon come up with a big message that will describe different issues related to inequality. So it's a follow-up to a decision taken by Stortinget. It'll be ready soon. I look forward to putting it before the Storting, so that we can get a broader discussion about both what's good about a society with little differences, and how we can make sure that we continue to have it. You have to be able to have more thoughts in your head at once in politics. As I have said several times, having a competitive tax system in Norway is a prerequisite for ensuring the welfare systems. I also thought the Workers' Party meant that. Taxing Norwegian companies too hard will weaken overall earnings and our ability to finance welfare schemes. We can't stick to welfare schemes in this country without income, and that's why we're dependent on companies that go well.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e432	Rigmor Aasrud – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e437	As the Council of State knows, there is a difference between property taxes and corporate taxes, but it is reassuring to hear that the distribution message promised by the Council of State in February is coming soon. Then I could imagine being confirmed by the Council of State that a recipe is actually presented for how to reduce the differences in Norway, not just an analysis of what it is. I could imagine challenging the Council of State whether there are actually going to be concrete measures to reduce the increased differences in the notification that comes during February.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e442	So far this questioning has gone to ask me to shoot a lot of things that the government has not yet presented to the Storting. I can assure you that the big message that is coming is going to go through thoroughly what is the reason that we have a country of small differences, what is the reason why we see things going up in some places, and what measures and instruments the government is doing, which help to target precisely those who have challenges in our society. That's why we've taken a lot of steps related to the families of children. That is why we have provided for a stronger integration of immigrant families. It's very often a context when families who could have two incomes have only one. If we get mother – we have to be honest and say it – in immigrant families to get on language courses and then to work, it strengthens the family economy and is thus also a contribution to reducing poverty in our country. I agree that there is a difference between property taxes and corporate taxes. The operating tax is on profit. The property tax will be paid to you whether you are going in profit or in deficit and is still not good for the sustainability of Norwegian businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e450	Sigbjørn Gülsvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e455	The country meeting of the Progress Party in May last year adopted an opinion entitled ‘Unfortunate consequences of fees’. Among the points that were made was that these unfortunate consequences, among other things. is the loss of investment, the loss of jobs in Norway, but also emphasises that tax increases also affect low-income families particularly hard. In the first five years that the Progress Party put in government, the fees in Norway increased by 6.6 billion. kr. Last week, during the declaration debate, the Minister of Finance said that one should strengthen the policy pursued by the government in the first five years. How much will the fees continue to increase if you want to strengthen the policy that led to the first five years? Or is it that one will eventually also see traces of the unfortunate consequences pointed out by the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e462	This debate has been attended by the representative, Gielsvik, and I have had quite a few times over the last few years. The truth is, this government has reduced the total tax and tax burden by 25 billion. kr. Thus taxes and taxes have decreased in Norway, they have not increased. I think it is very good that the centre party has now also been engaged in reducing taxes and taxes. After all, it would be tempting to return a challenge to the Centre Party, which has the rapporteur in a wide range of municipalities in Norway that charge taxes on property: if it is the case that the Centre Party is so concerned that most people will have more to walk with, you can start with the instrument itself, helping to reduce property taxes in the municipalities where the Central Party has the rapporteur. The Progress Party now facilitates this by limiting the ability of municipalities to collect property taxes. However, the centre party is free to remove property taxes in many of these municipalities and thus contribute to people paying less into different tax systems — and retaining more of their own income.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e469	Sigbjørn Gülsvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e474	While the Progress Party has been in government, the collection of property tax around the Norwegian municipalities has almost doubled, from 3.7 billion. DKK to over 7 billion. kr, and it has happened through a slipping of the municipal economy. So also municipalities run by the Progress Party, where the Progress Party is in position, have contributed to increasing property tax. It is absolutely right that we have a different profile of our tax policy than the government has. We're proposing to reduce taxes to those who have the least. We believe that those with high incomes have their backs to bear a little more, and we believe that charges need to be reduced in Norway, not increased, as the government has contributed to. And then, once again, the question to the Minister of Finance: when one of the members of the Progress Party has said that the increase in fees has adverse consequences, does the Minister of Finance agree with that, or does she intend to continue to increase the fees, as she did the first five years she was Minister of Finance?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e481	I fully agree that an excessive level of taxes and charges has adverse consequences, both for the private economy of the people and for Norwegian business. Therefore, the government has reduced the overall tax and tax burden instead of increasing it, as many of the parties in the opposition want. It is wrong for the representative to claim that the local economy has been poor over the last few years. So it's never been that good. That means there are now fewer municipalities on the ROBEK list than ever. The municipalities are running with good profits, and it is thanks to this government that it has actually invested in strengthening the municipal economy. And then the Center Party should go ahead, as they in this room – at least occasionally – show a touching concern for the individual. For a private individual, it is the same wallet that pays property taxes and municipal taxes, pays taxes to the State, and pays different taxes. So if the Center Party is serious about this, they can start on their own, sweep at their own door and reduce the property tax in those municipalities where they have the opportunity to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e488	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e493	My question also goes to the Minister of Finance. Youth is increasingly afraid and cursed by climate change, with good reason. The NRK has recently written about what can be a youth uprising that the world has never seen before. Landing of the streets by country. We can add that climate change is also what people most fear, according to a measurement in 26 countries by Pew Research Center. The report from the Climate Risk Committee, which the Minister of Finance now has on the table, confirms the concern of young people. It underlines that climate challenges raise fundamental ethical issues about the distribution of climate risk between countries and between generations, because there is a real risk that current generations are causing irreversible changes that make parts of the Earth uninhabitable for later generations. The Minister of Finance has also admitted on behalf of the Government that, for example: the oil tax system is not neutral but favours the oil industry. Therefore, the State contributes to more oil activity and more greenhouse gas emissions than we would have had in an oil market that was allowed to operate without oil subsidies. At the top of all of this is the government party, when I ask them in this room, for example. in the debate on the Government Declaration, very clearly that the climate does not prioritize the Progress Party, even if they are in government. My question to the Minister of Finance, as one of Norway's most powerful politicians and responsible for everything that has to do with taxes and taxes in Norway, is whether she understands and agrees with the basics of youth's mind and climate fear, because they are left with a globe that is more dangerous and poorer than those that are adult politicians today have had.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e506	This government is taking climate seriously. That is why, through many of the measures we have taken in recent years, we have helped to reduce and not increase greenhouse gas emissions. It was a achievement that the previous government failed to achieve, but as this government manages through the use of positive instruments. It is about being able to combine this with having a profitable and competitive Norwegian business, while using positive instruments that help bring down greenhouse gas emissions in Norway. We'll do that. We're not in the target, and the Granavolden platform has definitely more ambitions than the government's previous platform had. This means that the government takes it seriously, will follow up with a wide range of measures, including in the future annual government budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e513	Greenhouse gas emissions have fallen marginally since 2013. I record that the Minister of Finance does not respond to whether she understands the reason for the youth's anger and fear of the climate. With regard to government action, the 2020 target is broken. The 2030 Storting target, which has been reported internationally, is not on track. Reports from the SSB have shown that leaving Norwegian oil will have a positive global climate effect. One of the most famous young climate insurgents is 16-year-old Greta Thunberg. She tweeted yesterday: «You have left the task of saying as it is about the climate to us children.» She also criticizes many politicians for hatred, lies, spreading fear, conspiracy theories and ignoring facts. Amazingly, the Progress Party programme continues to use the term ‘claim’ — the claim of man-made climate change. It is therefore still unclear whether the Progress Party is using anthropogenic greenhouse gas emissions. Is the Minister of Finance ready to defeat climate denial and distortion of reality in his own party?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e527	I guess we've been done with that debate for a while. As is the case, the Progress Party in government contributes to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in Norway, they do not rise. Many of the questions that the representative of Bastholm is now asking, she should put to the appropriate state council. So this government is concerned, through the state budgets we present to the Storting every year, to make positive steps that help to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. One of the areas for which I am responsible, as far as the non-quota sector is concerned, is the transport sector and how we charge it. The conversion that this government has arranged for, all four parties, has contributed to a faster replacement of the car park than we have ever seen. We have used positive instruments, enabling more people to buy new emitters and safe cars at a decent price. This leads to a reduction in emissions. As a result, more people can afford to replace their car. There are positive instruments that we should spend more time on than I often see from the Greens/Greens/EFA, which do not contribute to economic growth or security for the welfare systems in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e533	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Une Bastholm.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e538	First of all, I think the vast majority of people in the UK are very aware that it is not the Progress Party that has managed the policy that is now cutting emissions marginally in Norway. The Progress Party confirms, as I said, when I ask questions in debates, that this is not the priority of the Progress Party. I also think it is a concern to try to take credit for the work that a majority must force the Progress Party to implement in government. That's the one. The second is that it would be very worrying if emissions in Norway continued to increase. The rest of Europe cuts emissions by 20-30 pst. We've cut them by between 1 and 2 pst. since 2013. In the fall, the UN came with crystal clear evidence. We got a report that showed that we are even more busy than we thought we were. We had 12 years, now we have 11 years, to halve emissions globally to avoid more than 1.5 degrees of warming, which has enormous consequences for life on the planet, also for humans. I still want the Minister of Finance to respond to whether she understands the climate of youth.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e545	I think the representative of Bastholm must decide what she is going to criticize the Minister of Finance for. This Minister of Finance therefore stands for the policy that this government is pursuing and that has contributed to the decline of greenhouse gas emissions in Norway. The measures and decisions taken by this government are the responsibility of the government. And the results are coming. As far as the new UN report is concerned, it is reflected in the new government platform, which is the basis for what kind of climate policy government will continue to pursue in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e550	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e555	The question goes to the Minister of Research and Higher Education. We live longer, and most of us can expect more active years than our parents and grandparents. That's good. But at the same time, an ageing population and a more complex form of disease will make the need for health professionals to take care of us even more. Already today, Norway lacks nearly 6,000 nurses, according to Nav. The need will only increase in the years ahead. By 2040 we may need twice as many health workers as today, according to the Health Directorate, and according to the SSB, by 2060 the care sector may need almost 100,000 more annual work. This is a formidable challenge that requires action today. At the same time, there is a long line of motivated and qualified applicants outside colleges and universities who do not get to study health because there are too few places compared to the need. Last year, there were 10,000 planned health places of study, and they had over 50,000 qualified applicants, i.e. five applicants for each health school. The government's putting thousands of qualified applicants in line is not a luxury problem; it's a social problem. This is why the Workers' Party has proposed 3 000 more places of study in its alternative state budgets over several years, with particular emphasis on professions that are important for the welfare state, such as nurses, guardians and socionomists. But the right-wing government has not wanted to use study places as an active tool to educate more of our most important professions. On the contrary, State Council Nybø said in the January Contact Conference that universities and colleges could not wait for more places to study in the years to come. My question is, how are our hospitals, nursing homes and medical clinics going to get enough qualified professionals, in line with more older and more needs, if the government doesn't want to educate more?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e564	Let me just start by saying that I haven't said that they can't wait any new places to study in the next few years. After all, the government has now presented a long-term plan to be discussed by the Education Committee in these days. Three contingency plans are linked to this long-term plan, and it is possible that the money there will also be used for study places. So what studies will possibly come in the future will we come back to when the budgets – and the revised state budget – are addressed. In terms of health and social education and training, there are some challenges, such as: is a challenge of practice. Practice is a clog in these educations, and it makes our educational institutions not only able to start up new places without having practical places in place. It is our starting point that the educational institutions themselves are to regulate the supply they provide, so that when some types of education are needed, they should take it up — and take down other education that is less needed. What the government has done recently is that, first of all, 100 new study places have been set up in nursing care in the revised national budget in 2018. The challenge with the 100 places is that we don't see them again in the recording in the fall. I therefore sent a letter to the institutions that were allocated study places, asking for an explanation as to why we did not see an increase in 100 places of study after admission. I have now received this feedback, and it varies a little. It's a little bit about some institutions taking up decentralised education only every two years. It's a little bit about students not meeting. But this is something we have to follow up, because it's clear that here the Stortinge has allocated money to 100 new places of study, and then we also expect to see an increase there. And we've added 10 million. kr to take a close look at the practice. Policy is a plug today. Then we need to see what we can do to get more practice places and to spread our practice, not only in the specialist health service, but also in the community health service.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e575	It is alarming if the institutions do not listen to the Council of State on the very modest increase in the number of nursing places. The place where we see the greatest shortage of nurses is in the municipal care sector, especially in the districts. There, the need will only continue to increase. We know that those who are trained locally have the greatest chance of staying and getting a job in the districts. In 2011, there were 63 active study programmes for those who wanted to study nursing. Now the number is 53, and it's the decentralised education that goes down. For example, we are concerned about the ongoing or evaluation of the closure of nursing studies in several places in the Nordic countries, Helgeland, Bodø and Lofoten and Vesterålen. It's one example of evolution. The question to the Council of State is: How will she provide better health education services in the districts, where the need is greatest, where the shortage is most evident, rather than more closures?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e584	Let me give you a good example of Alta. Out of those 100 study places set up in the revised national budget, the University of Norway’s Arctic University was given 20 places to set up a study offer in nursing care in Alta. They added someone themselves, so they illuminated 30 places of study. For these, there were 200 qualified applicants. It shows both that it is attractive – that this is something that is wanted out there – and that it is something that they get. I was up and met the nurses in January, when they started. So it's like some educational institutions only deal with every two years. This makes us get great variations from year to year, depending on how many nurses are admitted each year. It is important to me that the educational institutions that offer both on campus and decentralised services are able to provide good education. They also have to work on that when they offer decentralised offers.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e591	It opens for follow-up questions – first Ingvild Kjerkol.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e596	I hear the Council recognises the challenges for health professionals in the coming years. The fact that we live longer is very good, but it also leads to our older people experiencing more complicated illness and having more illnesses at the same time towards the end of their lives. Good care and care require a high level of competence among employees. It is a competence that also requires specialisation after a few years in practice. This is why we need people to take on- and on-the-job training in the care of the elderly. However, according to the Health Directorate's 2017 Annual Report, there has been a steady decline in further education in the field of care for the elderly and dementia in the context of Competence Summit 2020. How does the Council of State address such developments, and what does she intend to do to ensure that more people take appropriate further training, so that in 5, 10 and 20 years, our older people can get the help they need?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e603	There is a great deal to be done on this issue, because with competence it is crucial for our important health and social education and training courses. That's why we've also taken some important steps. We have the RETHOS project, which the Ministry of Knowledge and the Ministry of Health and Welfare are working with the sector on, just to raise their skills and education so that those who take those educations will be able to do what they need when they leave. Then health and care workers, together with everyone else in our society, will need further training in the future. This is why the government has started working on a reform of competences – precisely because you have not finished learning when you are finished at the university. The skills you have still need to be filled, and it is important that those with education and training in health and social matters receive training as they have worked for a while.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e611	Ingvild Kjerkol – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e616	I specifically asked about the development of fewer people taking further education in the care of the elderly and dementia. It's serious when we know that the challenges are increasing. So it's going to go the other way. But I have a follow-up question about this with practice, because it was the Council itself inside the answer to a previous questioner. Because, at the same time as the Prime Minister and the government are concerned that more people will have children during the studies, it turns out that combining practices with having a family can be challenging. The Autumn Address Paper wrote about several students who wanted to combine the nursing study with family life. They themselves had arranged a place of practice at their home, but were not allowed by the university to implement the practice so that they could be at home and take care of their children. These students were subsequently informed about their complaint. Is this something the Council of State sees as a change and a flexibility the educational institutions need to comply more?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e623	I'm concerned that our educational institutions need to show flexibility in their education, for those who take education are not necessarily single students from 19 to 25 years old. There is a diversity that comes into our education, and then the educational institutions must be as flexible as they can. And in practice, we have challenges, because there are more than just educational institutions involved in practice. Other actors, such as hospitals and community health services, are to be involved, making it more difficult to facilitate each of them. But I'm concerned that here we have to get better, and here it's a great potential for improvement, both for students with children and for students in other types of life situations and with other needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e628	Marit Knutsdatter Strand – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e633	Here's a lot of things to deal with. Important elements are definitely predictability, places of study and provision of study. Societal economic analysis shows that in 2030 Norway could lack a total of 75 000 nurses. Every year, thousands of jobs are advertised, without employing nurses with the relevant skills. Nursing shortages increase year by year during today’s government, without keeping pace with educational capacity. When the representative Henriksen points out that 40,000 qualified applicants are missing — not allowed — and the Council of State is responding with 100 study places in the revised national budget, there is no doubt that the pace here is under way. In addition, there has been structural reform and mergers where the Centre Party has been critical of how the former higher education institutions and local education services are now able to respond to local and regional needs. How does the Council of State think that the new institutions can follow up on the social mission and ensure adequate nurses — when the merger takes so much time and resources?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e642	When it comes to our health and social education, we increase the quality of this RETHOS project, but we cannot increase the number of places of study without having practical places to work with. That's our big challenge, for example. the training of nurses. That's exactly why the government is now starting work on getting a pilot in place that can look at how we can change the practice to make it better. Today not all patients are in the hospital throughout the disease period. Many are moved down to the municipal health service relatively quickly. Then the students do not get the competence that they had previously only by being in the hospital. Now they also have to go to the municipal health service. So now we're working on getting a pilot in place, and hopefully, one will both get better practice and get a little bit of the challenge that's about practice becoming a plug, given the number of students to go through.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e647	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e652	My question goes to the Minister of State. It is clear from the new government platform and from the opinions of the Council of State that the government parties intend to continue the merger of Norwegian municipalities. The centre party believes that history has shown us that it is a prerequisite for the welfare state to live people throughout the country who can take advantage of the amazing opportunities that nature gives us. It also means that good services must be available. One has previously been involved in this questioning process, among other things. The taxation that comes from our amazing natural resources, it's come because it's lived people everywhere. I see that the Council of State has stated to the media that we need to facilitate good economic incentives so that we get a call for more mergers – using dubious gifts of money. There are funds that could have been used to improve the provision of services in existing municipalities — or even to build new frigates. I also record that the Council of State says that she should appeal to the elected locals. I wonder what makes them now change their mind about aggregation and think that this should be a good idea. Very many people feel that the government's policy imposes a need for aggregation. Recently, there have been news reports that municipalities that merge from next year will see that aggregation will involve less financial transfers than they would have separately. That shouldn't surprise anyone. At the same time, I think it is alarming that budgetary surveys for Norwegian municipalities, regardless of aggregation, show that income is not sufficient to finance good school and care for the elderly in the smallest municipalities. It is currently a very important issue for the government – rather than for the economy and how to ensure equivalent services regardless of size in Norwegian municipalities. Can the Council of State then explain how the government has intended that the municipal reform be continued without breaking the Storting decision that the municipal merger should take place on a voluntary basis and that the income system should not be used as an element in the continuation of the municipal reform? Is it that one has completely disregarded predictability in the income system, both for congregated municipalities and for those who leave behind?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e665	First I have to thank you for getting a question in today's Question Time, I appreciate it very much. I am also very pleased that the question is related to municipal structure. Thanks to the municipal reform work that was started when we joined the government in 2013, there is now something more to do with municipal equipment than it has been done in the last 50 years. I believe that both the representative and I fully agree that Norway has changed dramatically over the past 50 years. But still, the municipal structure itself is fixed. We go from 422 municipalities this year to 356 from 1 January next year – 356 municipalities in a country with 5 million inhabitants. There are 356 municipalities that have exactly the same responsibility, the same responsibility from the beginning of life to the end of life, to provide good services to all residents in all parts of the country. I can assure the representative that I am very concerned that we have a residence throughout the country. That's why I'm going to travel around and invite you to some recordings related to the work we're doing on making a district announcement. I'm very worried, and if I was a little worried when I started this job, I'm very worried now. I can tell the representative what the challenge is: I was at Helgeland last week. Then the rapporteurs and the advisers said, and the advisers were clearer than the rapporteurs: we are not able to give our citizens the services we are going to, we are not able to attract competence. To put it like this, it doesn't solve a municipal scheme, no matter how good it is. We have to make sure that municipalities have competence, that they attract labour. Young people want to work with other young people. Good people want to work with other nice people. Then you have to attract those people. What we see is that the proportion of economically active people is going to go down anywhere else than around the big cities. So we have a structure that is not suitable for providing safe enough care services to everyone in all parts of the country. That's why the community reform is important, and that's why I hope that work continues.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e678	I thank you for the answer, but the reality description is not necessarily as uniform as the Council of State here gives the impression. If the municipalities in Helgeland have challenges to attract skills – and they have so far – it can be related to the offer that Nord University has and that Nybø Council is responsible for, and that there are challenges with, for example: to have enough nurses recruited. So the government can start by pursuing a comprehensive policy to ensure access to skills in the districts. I would warn against saying that there are no good people also in places where there are not so many, and that not even good people want to live in the districts. We see a government adapting its argument. So when the police cooperate and interact with several municipalities, it is a near-police reform. But when municipalities choose to do the same thing, it has suddenly become a problem. We have a great deal of cooperation between Norwegian companies, research, etc., on which the government honors, but why has it become a problem that Norwegian municipalities cooperate, when it is not a problem that all other public agencies do the same?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e687	I just have to stress that, of course, there are good people working all over the country. But I also have to invite you to go inside and look at what we know. We know that too many municipalities have one or three employees in the Child Welfare Service. It's a vulnerable service. We know that one in three municipalities don't have a lawyer. It is not a problem for the lawyers, but it is a problem for the citizens, who must be sure that the decisions taken provide the legal certainty that they are entitled to. We've seen examples in the last few months of how it can work when you don't have legal certainty. We know that you have not hired people with a level playing field, and how in the world are you going to plan for employment, value creation, investment and housing if you don't have people in the municipalities who can work with it? We have intercommunal cooperation. It's next best, because you move decisions out of elected bodies and into constellations that don't have the same representation, the same insight and the same popular control.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e695	There will be follow-up questions – Eirik Sivertsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e700	As a people elected from Helgeland, I know that there are a lot of good people living there. There's no shortage of good people there. There is both industry, which generates large export revenues, and many competent and competent employees who work in both municipalities and state businesses, and who provide important welfare services every day. In the context of the challenge just addressed by the Council of State, she highlighted the concerns she has about how to provide services with the competences of municipalities. Then there was a description of reality, but there were very few answers beyond what has to do with changes in the municipal structure. Then my question becomes to the Council of State: How will changes in the municipal structure make it easier to recruit for municipalities? The services of kindergarten, school and nursing homes are still to be provided in the same place, and the people living in municipalities who need the services will continue to live in the same place, regardless of where the municipal borders are drawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e709	First, I have to say, yes, there is a lack of good people. That's the answer we get everywhere. If I go to the Inland, South or North Norway, there's a lack of good people. There is a desperate need for people with the right skills. That's what the business community says, that's what the municipalities say -- that's what everyone we talk to. That's the problem: lack of good people. That doesn't mean that people don't live there that are nice; that means we lack good people. If you're newly educated and sitting in Stavanger, Kristiansand or somewhere else, you dream of working in a place where you're the only one at work, where you don't have anyone to share experiences with, where you can't be sick one day, because no one can replace you? Do you dream of it as a newly educated child-rescue educator or as a re-trained professional? Is that what you dream of? That's the problem: we're going to compete for ever fewer heads and hands in this country, and then size means something. Then I think you'd rather dream of being a place with four employees than with one.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e716	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e721	I think the Council of State should be a little careful with talking down the small municipalities, because now it's starting to sound like that's what the Council of State is doing. We understand that the municipalities should be pushed to new mergers, and there are many municipalities that are very tired of it. Near Helgeland we find the municipality of Namskogan. Stian Breckvassmo, who is the rapporteur there, is the rapporteur for a municipality of the same size as Akershus in the area. He says that it is impossible to get a municipal merger in Inner Namdal without centralising the current settlement. He is very tired of spending time and money from the municipality at a seminar with the County Council and asks to be allowed to concentrate on his job, which is to make well-being for the inhabitants. In fact, the spokespersons of the government parties in the same area believe the same. You can't decide to remove the distances in Inner Namdal. The merger will mean centralisation. But when it comes to what the Council of State here says about the small municipalities, and the way she talks them down, does it also mean that the Council of State agrees with it, that aggregation in an area-sized municipality such as Namskogan will mean centralization?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e732	With all due respect, when the accusation of talking down the districts comes from an expert in the field, who spends all his time there, it becomes very special. I'm cheering in the districts. It's going very well in the districts. Unemployment is low, travel and industry are doing well, and natural resources are doing well. But the municipalities report that they lack people with skills, and that's what I've been saying today. You might think I don't know what I'm talking about, but then you get to talk to the municipalities out there. They need people. Yes, we have large areas in this country, but it's not the areas that carry out the child protection services, it's not the areas that are involved in planning housing and business, it's not the areas that work in nursing homes – that's what people do. Then you simply have to have skills units that are large enough. Two plus two is four. It's going to be twice as much a competence environment, and I think that's good. We have decentralised services. We have e.g. not 422 fire services. They're the first ones on the scene.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e741	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e746	I think maybe the Council of States should focus on answering the questions, and this is a real question. I do not know if the Council of State has been in Inner Namdal and looked at the municipalities there, but at least she can place some trust in the rapporteur when he says that it is not possible to bring together the municipalities of Inner Namdal if one is to maintain at the same time the scattered settlement of the day. Then you have to centralize, he says. And you have to trust that, especially when it's also confirmed by the Left's representative in Trendelag, André Skkelstad, and Elin Rodum Agdestein from the Right – who also says it. It is not possible to decide to remove the distances in Inner Namdal. If you merge these municipalities, it means centralization of offers. Does the Council of State think that is right, or does she think that large municipalities should be allowed to use the time to run the municipality as best they can instead of going to seminars to get on and propose new mergers?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e755	It is up to both the current local government and those who come after the election to decide whether to talk to the neighbor or not. But it must be a fundamental misunderstanding to think that getting new municipal administrative units means changing places and identities. We have massive cooperation across the country. The strange thing – and the representative really does not understand – is that what we are talking about is working together on a councilman, a town hall and a rapporteur. But that's not where we're going to get our services, we're going to the offices, and they're still going to be decentralised. Fire protection is decentralised. They come when it burns, but we don't have 422 of them. So we can work together on everything in this country, except for a town hall, a councilman and a rapporteur. That's what I think is regrettable, and I think you should do something about improving services and attracting even more skills, because that's what we're going to need.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e764	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e769	Let me help to make the day of the Mayor even better by also asking her a question, and that is to the extent that a follow-up to what we have just debated, both in the previous questions and also in the question of the Council of State Nybø. The municipal reform that has been carried out has been justified by the fact that municipalities will be given new tasks. There is some doubt as to whether the major tasks came if you ignore the rapporteur's right to consecrate people. It is stated in the Granavolden Declaration that the municipal reform must continue. At the same time, we read in the media and hear the Council of State today tell about major challenges in the municipal sector. I share the description that there is a need – and an increasing need – for more competence, it is in health, as we heard earlier here today, it is in planning in the municipal sector, it is in water and sewerage, or it is in kindergarten, where we have adopted a pedagogical standard. So far, we agree on the challenges we face. State councils used the word "desperate" again. I don't want to use such a strong term, but it's a big and growing need, I agree. The question then arises: What will the Council of State do to give municipalities better opportunities to recruit, except to carry out even more voluntary mergers and coercive mergers in the municipal sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e783	I'm glad that, far on the way at least, we share the challenge picture, and I'll probably insist that in some places there is a desperate need for people with skills. But now leave it. We're now working on making a district message – recognizing that we can't decide where to live or where to move, or move from time to time; we can't decide that. We have to make sure that it is attractive to live and work throughout the country, and I think the word ‘job’ is just essential. I come from a town that is not very small – there are 40,000 inhabitants in Arendal. When we left that town, it was to study or to take education. A lot of people wanted to go back, but you didn't because you didn't get a job, and at least not if you were two. So I think job creation is very important. When I'm still so concerned with municipal structure, it's because I think creating larger units attracts increased competence. I think it's more attractive for, among other things. new-educated to move to a place where you have larger units – not because they are centralised, but simply because you have bigger units to lean on and work with. We also see how it is easier for large municipalities in large cities to attract skills than in smaller towns. But we're looking for good answers. We're traveling inland, on the coast, in the north and south to get a sense of what framework conditions we're going to set up to live in the whole country, to have municipalities that can provide the same services, given that we're going to have a generalist municipality principle, and that's what we're going to do. So I also think that the new regions, with the tools they now have on competence, can just do a job. Norway is very different. Northern Norway has challenges other than inland and southern. And it is clear that regions responsible for secondary education can take – if anyone does – greater responsibility for cooperation with Nav, with colleges, with colleges and with apprentices – just to meet the needs of the business there.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e796	I have come to understand that the Council of State believes that structural changes are a contribution to improving recruitment, either by coercion or by volunteering. But I have to say that I also agree with the representative Arnstad, who says that this cannot be the only answer. In the municipality of the Mosques in Northern Ireland, they have one school and one nursing home. It is not possible to streamline the structure there. Further cooperation means either moving the service from the neighbouring municipality or moving it from its own municipality centre to that municipality. My question instead went on: In addition to the structural changes, what will the Council of State do? How will the Council of State follow up what is stated in the Granavolden Declaration on the dimensioning of education, which should more closely reflect the needs of the community sector? What will the Council of State do to contribute to the increased recruitment of critical competences for municipalities, as also stated in the Government Declaration? What will the Council of State do besides write a message and do another investigation?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e801	First of all, the Council of State will invite the Stortinget to a debate on the notification when it is finished – so we are in the middle of it. As far as dimensioning of education is concerned, the question may rather be addressed to the State Council for Research and Higher Education. But it's quite obvious that education is important. Then I guess you simplify the picture a little bit if you think that a municipality is just running with school and nursing homes. You don't. You're doing a lot of different things, and that's one of the challenges. There is a need to digitise and modernise, to be responsible for infrastructure, to provide technical services – a wide range of services. So having one school and one nursing home, well, that doesn't mean you shouldn't talk to your neighbor. I do not know specifically this municipality's cooperation agreement, but probably we have cooperated in a wide range of areas, but not linked to having another administration in the form of a town hall and a councillor.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e810	There will be follow-up questions – first Eirik Sivertsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e815	With the #heiians respect to report: neither I nor anyone else today has claimed that the municipalities only operate with healthcare, nursing homes and schools. We all know that municipalities provide a wide range of basic and fundamental services to all residents of the country every single day, for example. water supply. But my question – again – was: What will the Council of State do? So I don't get an answer to that, and it's been a long way off today's entire questioning strategy. What do you want to do? The municipal reform that has been carried out – a performance project – has been justified for five years, among other things. with the need for competence. Now, the Council of State describes the need as ‘desperate’, but there is still no other response than to write a message that you would like to invite the Stortinge to participate in a debate on. I'm glad. But what are the measures taken by the Council of State? What is the highest on the priority list now to resolve the desperate need that the Council of State sees?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e822	Let me take this in order: it was the representative who used an example of a municipality that ran with a school and a nursing home, and where there was no room for efficiency – it wasn't my claim, it was the representative's. So my answer was that a municipality is much more than that, and I am happy that we agree on that. So even if we have a municipal reform that will lead to fewer municipalities on 1 January 2020, half will still have less than 5,000 inhabitants. 120 municipalities will have less than 3000 inhabitants. In that case, local government reform is still important. Then there is still an answer to attracting competence. If you are to attract investment and industrial development, you need someone in a municipality that can work with it. It's a challenge today. So this is about a lot of areas, but where the municipality is still important. So I'm going to come back with a district message where hopefully we'll be able to discuss a lot of different measures that will keep us living in this country, too, because that's very important. Then we have to get to it now, and that's what we've done.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e831	Heidi Greni – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e836	This is far from black-and-white. In my municipality of Trøndelag, with 2,000 inhabitants, there was a look-up in the local area about a very good application when it came to taking care of nurses. The municipality of Trondheim has notices of the exact opposite. So this is very individual. But until the Council of State now says, the services should not be centralised even if the municipalities join forces. That will not be the consequence, for example. in the Namskogan, was the answer. Then there is ‘a desperate need’ for competence, and in order to attract competence, a person must have a larger professional environment. Can the Council of State explain to me how to manage to get larger professional environments among nurses in Namdalen without actually getting more distance from the services? That's the first one. The second thing I want answers to, and the Council of State does not want to respond to, is: Will the Council of State then respect the decision of the Stortingen that community mergers should only take place by voluntary means, and that the income system should not be used to force through community mergers?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e845	To answer the last two questions first: the revenue system introduced in 2017, we are not planning to change. You don't do that very often. It has to sit down, and we have to see the effects of it. I think it's a good income system for both the big and the small, both for central and district municipalities. In the case of decentralised services, the answer is that we know how this has happened in municipalities that have merged. The service offer is decentralised, and it was supposed to be missing. The home health care must be where people live. The home nurse goes to people's homes. We need a service offer that's where people live. We have to have a fire department that pulls out when it burns. So that's not what we're talking about. We're talking about administrative units where you unite and where you gather forces in different areas. You can do that in different parts of the municipality. We also have good experience with this in municipalities that have merged. I hope that more people will see that it's important, and I hear that out too.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e854	The oral question procedure is now over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e868	There will be some changes to the questionnaire, and the President will refer to the electronic question list in this section. The changes were as follows: Question 15, from the representative Sigrid Simensen Ilsøy to the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, will be taken up by the representative Per Olaf Lundtigen. Question 19, from the representative Maria Aasen-Svensrud to the Minister for Justice and Immigration, will be raised by the representative Tellef Inge Mørland.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e882	‘The organisers and those who work as volunteers at a commercial time-limited event will now face a very difficult situation, as the government parties voted down a proposal from the opposition to treat volunteers in a time-limited arrangement with volunteers in non-profit, non-profit and non-profit organisations and foundations. Can the Council of State justify why?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e895	The proposal on equal tax treatment for volunteers working for commercial and non-profit institutions, respectively, was endorsed by a broad majority of the Stortinget. It was only the centre party, SV and Red who voted in favour of the proposal. There are good reasons why this proposal fell. The central distinction in the tax treatment is whether the company or the device has acquired for its purpose. If they do not have acquisitions for their purposes, the starting point is that they are exempt from income taxes and property taxes. The main reason for tax freedom is that it provides important social functions. This also applies to favourable tax rules when such non-taxable entities pay wages or other benefits: the salary obligation limit is then NOK 10000, while for others it is NOK 1000. That is why the activity of the association, etc. determining when, if applicable, ‘voluntary’ must pay taxes on the benefit received. I think this distinction makes sense, but it's not something that's changed or introduced with this government. On the other hand, we have been committed to ensuring good conditions for non-profit and non-profit organisations. Since 2013, the limits on when employers’ contributions are payable by organisations and the level of wages and salaries that employees in such organisations may receive before tax and reporting obligations arise have almost doubled. In the debate on the tax liability of volunteers at festivals, it has been consistently pointed out that stakeholders find it difficult to inform themselves about the rules in force. They include: evidence that they experience uncertainty as to when they are regarded as employers for the voluntary sector and what is considered as remuneration under the tax rules. It has also been pointed out that there is no clear definition of voluntary activity. I don't think the way to go to make everyday life easier for the festivals is to establish new, special tax rules for a group of people that are difficult to define. The public debate has clearly shown that it is not clear what is included in the concept of volunteering. It would also be to go against something that there is a broad consensus both in business and in Stortinget, namely the need for clearer rules that make it easier for everyone to know which rules apply. It is also important to remember that no festivals, whether ideal or commercial, will have to report free tickets as long as volunteers only have access to the festival when they are going to work. So it's only if they get tickets or other benefits that go beyond what they need to make the voluntary effort that can result in tax and reporting obligations. The same applies to all cultural and sporting events where volunteers contribute. This has been the case for a long time, and this is not a consequence of the new rules on taxation of benefits in kind. I have notified that I will consider whether some adjustments should be made to the new rules on benefits in kind. I'm looking at whether the new rules in some areas give some unreasonable results, and will come back to this once the government has concluded.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e912	The Council of State may choose to talk and blame others, but it is therefore the Council of State and this government that is responsible for the legislation as it exists, and it is this government that has also clarified and made it clear that volunteers should tax, for example. free tickets when they work for free at festivals. This contrasts very strongly with the desire we have to facilitate voluntary work, and Festival Norway does not go about without volunteering. Nor is it true that festivals that are also AS are large enterprises. If you think so, you don't know Festival Norway. These are firefighters, these are voluntary festivals that barely go around, they're not big money machines. The working party asked the government to clean this up already at the Rome Christmas. I think the Council of State was unclear also in this round in Stortinget, so I ask again: will the Minister of Finance clean up this?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e921	I have neither talked away nor blamed for others; I explained what the actual legislation is, and I stressed that this is a code that this government has not changed. We have a distinction between commercial and ideal, and there are good reasons – as I also explained in my first answer – for why that distinction is there. I agree with the representative of the Trettebergstuen in the sense of volunteering. This is precisely why it has been important for this government to strengthen the framework conditions for volunteers in many different areas of Norwegian society. It is also reinforced in the Granavolden platform.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e928	That's what becomes pointless -- excuse me for saying -- because the government has all these ambitions on paper to make it easier for volunteering. At the same time, voluntary action continues to be felt in the wheels for their activities by, for example, reaching them. have become clear that the volunteers who present at the festival will be taxed on the benefits they receive. In this debate, where we from the opposition since Christmas have been trying to get a clear response from the government, different things have been said from different governments and different representatives from the position parties in the Stortinget. The Minister of Finance now says that she should look at the legislation in the context of the State budget. That's okay, but what are Festival-Norway and the volunteers going to do until that happens? Will the festivals now be sanctioned for violation of the law until the Council of State sees this?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e935	Firstly, it is wrong that the government is pushing ambitions ahead. Thus, we have delivered in a wide range of areas over several years to strengthen the framework conditions for volunteers in Norway. Then it's wrong that we're trying to stick chains in the wheels related to voluntary festivals. As I have said several times, this legislation has been in place for many years. It was the same legislation that was practiced during eight red-green years of government. So there has been no change in it. What I have said is that precisely because this code is old, there may be good reasons to review it again. Nor is it the case that volunteers who work at voluntary festivals must be taxed on the benefits they receive. There are clear rules, they've been there all along, and I expect you to follow the rules that have been practice for many years. But again: I think there are good reasons to look at this again. I will come back to it as soon as I have concluded.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e945	‘The government is shutting down the fur industry and it has proposed 365 million. kroner in compensation. Oslo Economics and Societal Economic Analysis calculates a minimum cost of 2.3 billion. krones. So the government will give each pawn an average of about. One and a half million. krona, but several have invested far more than this and have many millions of dollars in debt. This is a disaster for affected families, and the industry fears a number of bankruptcies among our about 200 fur breeders. How many bankruptcies can the new Council of State be on guard?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e952	The Government has had a proposal for a law prohibiting the keeping of fur animals and a proposal for a system of financial compensation for fur farmers at the hearing. With regard to the proposal for a compensation scheme, I would first like to correct what must be a misunderstanding. The question seems to be based on the fact that a concrete sum has been proposed for the total compensation, but that is not the case. The government has proposed an individual compensation based on an estimated value of non-realisable capital stock used in the fur animal activity. The calculation shall be based on book values at the end of 2017 and no upper limit has been set for their initial amount. It is true that an estimate has been made as to how much the scheme could cost, but there is something different than setting an upper limit. In addition to the compensation of capital values, a standardised compensation has been proposed for the costs of liquidation and clearing within a framework of 50 million. NOK and a conversion package of 50 million. kr. The representative shall keep a calculation from the Societal Economic Analysis up to an estimated average, where the estimated costs of the consultation proposal are distributed equally among all fur-bearing animals. I then remind you that the compensation for the capital stock will be individual, and that the other parts of the scheme will also depend on the conditions of the individual fur animal husband. So averaging is not necessarily as clarifying as the representative says. In any case, with regard to the figure from the Societal Economic Analysis to which the representative refers, this is much higher than the estimated costs of the calculations made by the government. It is due in the first instance to the fact that the Societal Economic Analysis has included compensation for the loss of future entrepreneurial income up to retirement age. This is an element which is not included in the consultation proposal. The Ministry has received more than 300 hearing replies. I am now going through each of these together with the ministry, and I will consider whether changes should be made to the proposed compensation scheme. It's also the fact that right now the skin prices are very low, and they've been in the last few years. This will also contribute to the poor economy for very many fur farmers right now. My intention is to put in place a compensation scheme to take care of the fur farmers affected by this ban.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e969	The industry is completely lost. It's not very difficult to find a fur farmer who fears that he has to leave the farm and land, who doesn't look forward to the future or life at all, because you get a food ban that makes it impossible to continue living on the farm and pay his bills. The fur industry has been out saying that they fear a number of bankruptcies. When the Council of State comes up with its answer, I am grateful for that, but it does not seem that she takes the concern seriously at all. Here we have an industry that is being hit by a business ban. They do not feel that they are being met by adequate compensation schemes, and they fear bankruptcy. Does the Council of State share the concern of the industry itself for this, or does the Council of State guarantee that there will not be a single bankruptcy because of the ban on nutrition that the government is now imposing?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e974	I want to start by saying that I really understand the concern of very many of the fur farmers. They have invested in a belief in decisions made in this house. Many have also invested on the basis of fluctuating prices in the market, but they have been able to set off and get help from banks with liquidity in times of lower prices. Now they're in a situation where they get a ban. I'm extremely concerned that the compensation scheme that comes is going to take care of the fur farmers. That is why I think it is important, what is there about individual assessment. That means everything, because they're different, the fur farmers out there. Some have paid off a lot, others have not. Some have been driving for many years, some have not. Therefore, I think that the individual assessment will be absolutely crucial to whether this should be done properly.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e981	It is good that the Council of State makes an individual assessment, but the Council of State has still – despite all the concerns she has – advocated a ban on the whole industry, which is going to hit the farmers, regardless of whether they have recently taken up debt or whether they have done so a long time ago. It was, as the Council of State itself said, quite recently a decision in the Grand Duchy that was in favour of the sustainable development of fur animal nutrition. Nevertheless, the fur industry has been sacrificed on the government altar in government negotiations. It's incredibly sad and despairing for the industry. The NHO believes that the proposal undermines the long-term and predictability of small and medium-sized enterprises. The Board of Governors, as established in 2015, concluded that the investigation of the impact on current fur breeders is deficient. Now the state council says that more or less everything will work out, so then I can challenge quite specifically: if, for example, it does. Turns out it's going to cost 2.3 billion. For the government to fully compensate all the fur farmers, will the Council of State do so?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e986	I would like to take as my starting point what is within the framework of the consultation, and that those within the framework of the consultation are those to which this applies. That will be the starting point for the individual assessment, and it should just be missing. I get it when the NHO is talking about predictability. The representative knows well that the Christian People's Party has also had a challenge with this, but both my party and the representative's party have a challenge because we have joined forces. I know that cooperation on the other hand is also challenging in terms of saving the fur industry, which has lived on a knife egg for very many years, and there has been great political disagreement. I am now busy getting into a system that makes it feel that the individual is being cared for. The framework for this cannot be said in the storeroom, because it will be based on the assessments we make in the light of the hearing replies that have been received.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e994	‘Does the Council intend to ensure that no farmer must leave the farm and that the government chooses to submit proposals to impose a ban on the feeding of fur animals?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e999	As I just said in a previous answer, I have received well over 300 hearing replies from people who have been hit by the ban or who have an opinion on this ban on fur animal nutrition. I'm going through them just these days, and I'm also going to have a meeting with the Fur Animal Battle this week. It's important to me because I want to have the best possible overview of the consequences this really has for breeders. They're many, and they're different. I would also like to stress that in this case it is important that each case be assessed individually. They are treated individually because each pet farmer has its own challenges. So I've also said earlier today that right now, and in recent years, skin prices have contributed to an extra strained economy for very many of the fur farmers. The situation will not improve if the low prices persist. My intention has always been to put in place a compensation scheme that takes care of the fur animal industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1010	When the Christian People's Party signed the Government Declaration, opened it up so that Bollestad could become Minister of Agriculture. The price for that is the family around Norway that now has to pay. They live in fear, they live in turmoil. So today, the Council of State speaks with a split tongue. The only thing that was stressed was that it should be individual treatment, but the Council of State cannot answer the completely elementary question: Will people have to walk from the garden to the ground – yes or no?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1017	I have now tried to say what I answered a previous question, to the representative Pollestad. I'm going through the answers to the hearing, and I want to look at the compensation system to take care of the individual. At the same time, there are many other things that affect fur animal nutrition right now, before the ban is imposed, which also have consequences for fur animal nutrition. I have to take responsibility for the hearing that has been held. I have to take responsibility for maintaining the compensation system in a way that takes care of the individual user and the individual farmer. I'll do that to the best of my ability.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1024	It was said here earlier that there was great disunity about fur nutrition. That's not true. The majority of the population take a decision to have a viable development of the industry. Then the government turned it down. The response given today by the Minister for Agriculture is not understandable. It is not possible to understand whether people are getting full compensation or not. It is a good thing that you have had a hearing about the technical implementation, but there is no need to hear about it, to decide on something so simple when you introduce a food ban for an industry. Here is the family that is afraid of the future saying, which is afraid of its garden.I think that an agricultural minister from the Christian People's Party should be able to answer yes or no to the question of whether these people should be fully compensated or not, which is a fundamental principle of Norwegian law, and it seems to me that the Council of State should be given the opportunity now.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1031	In fact, the councils have blackened. The Council of State has said that she will take the hearing replies available and will give an assessment to the individual. The compensation scheme shall be organised according to the individual farmer, within the limits of the consultation. This means that the individual should be evaluated. Then I have to be allowed to say that in this room, congratulations were given to the Jelaua platform from parties on the other side, who also participated in the decision that was made in 2017. So there are inequalities even if we have a decision that I totally agree with.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1041	‘Myth constitutes, according to the county of Northern Ireland, 45,5 pst. of the arable resources in the county. In good agricultural regions such as Lofoten, Vesterålen and Outer Helgeland, myr is the only available reserve for new cultivation, so there are many farms that are not allowed to expand the land base. There will be more "tyres and diesel", while the ban on killing is not professionally anchored. The Norwegian Institute of Bioeconomy writes that it is possible that a net bonding of carbon can occur in the soil that is superimposed on the ant layer. How does the Council of State address the proposed ban on killing?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1048	The representative’s question is linked to the legislative proposal on the amendment of the rules on innovation, Prop. 39 L for 2018-2019, Changes in soil laws etc. The bill was sent to Stortinget before Christmas and is a follow-up of, among other things, the 2012 climate agreement in the Storting and the 2017 budget decision of the Storting. In its decision, the Storting asked the Government to propose a ban on the cultivation of ants. The Government has followed up the decision of the Storting and has drawn up consultation notes and legislative proposals on the basis of this mandate. The proposed amendment of the law means an extension of the basis of the law so that rules can be laid down in the innovatory regulation, which is justified by the need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The proposal to amend the new cultivation regulation essentially seeks to introduce a ban on the breeding of bogs, as requested by the Stortinget. The regulation will also allow municipalities to grant a derogation. The issue of restrictions on the cultivation of boar has been a topic for many years. Already in 2010, the former Minister of Agriculture Lars Peder Breck put forward a proposal to ban the cultivation of ants. When this matter is now being re-examined, it is based on a professional work done by NIBIO. I would like to add that there is still research and knowledge development in this area, which may affect the future design of the new cultivation regulation. This matter has received attention in the media. I record that there are shared opinions about the introduction of a ban on new cultivation. Many have asked whether a ban should be implemented in the light of the restrictions it imposes on individual holdings — especially in the areas mentioned by the representative. The consequences of the introduction of restrictions on the cultivation of ants have been identified by NIBIO and are reflected in both the consultation note and the legislative proposal. The representative refers to the fact that new cultivation by so-called re-digging can lead to ‘a net bonding of carbon in the soil placed above the ant layer’. I assume that this new cultivation method can mean a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions compared to normal cultivation methods, but this has not yet been documented. I am referring to the fact that the bill is now under consideration in Stortinget, and that any change to the new cultivation regulation is conditional on the Stortinget first adopting the bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1063	Fortunately, former Minister of Agriculture Breck left this proposal at the heart of a drawer and left it there. I did not hear the council say how she submits to the proposal. We don't know if a ban on ant cultivation will result in less CO 2 emissions. We don't know. But we know that many individual farmers and many agricultural areas, for example: in West Wagøy, in Bø in the Westål, on Luray and on Smøla, will be severely hit by a ban. Is it wise to introduce greater uncertainty in agriculture? Is it wise to introduce more bureaucracy in agriculture when farmers must already seek to justify the need for cultivation? Is it wise to ban ants when professionals say that there is great uncertainty and that the ban can be a big loss, cf. The nation today?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1073	I may be mistaken, but I feel that the representative is honestly concerned that there are areas where one actually has almost no alternative to agriculture than to use existing areas that are wetlands or moorlands. I understand that challenge, and that is why there is also a derogation for municipalities in the scheme. But initially, I want to say that it is possible to improve the basis of existing grasses. We know that. We know that there are actually surpluses on grassland. Then the question of whether one can better the economy by getting more out of what is, before one goes to newly cultivated ants. That's another question I think we need to consider.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1078	I'm busy with photosynthesis. In the climate account, the capture of CO 2 in forests is considered positive. But permanent CO 2 capture on the pasture and cultivated land is not included in the calculation, although 1 dekar grass collects about 1 tonne of CO 2 per year, and we need more cultivated land to provide food preparation in this country. The restoration of ants is also a matter for the government in its platform. I ask myself, is the next step now to oblige farmers to demine cultivated land to get back ants? But the question – since the Council of State spoke a great deal about CO 2 capture, although we do not know that it will – is: why is the ban on killing under the heading of ‘biological diversity’ in the government platform and not under the heading of ‘climate’?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1097	First, I want to answer a question that came in the middle of the questionnaire, and that was whether I wanted to curb agricultural land: No. The next question was why it lay as it was in the platform. It could have been in both places, but when we put it under ‘biological diversity’, it was just about being an important part of biodiversity. It could also have been under «climate». No one says it couldn't do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1107	The question is: ‘Timetables limit work performance to, inter alia: teachers. Prior to Christmas, the Council of State, in cooperation with education sector partners, set up a new time twenty-one committee, the third in line with the reports issued in 2009 and 2014, with a broad mandate. In the new government platform, there are several points that affect the work of the sample and that can capture even more of the time of the teachers. How does the Granavolden Platform feel that the Time Thieves Committee should now be able to make its own efforts to eliminate time thieves?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1116	It is an important theme that the representative addresses. For me, it is important to state that for the government, the main goal is to develop the school so that all students can experience mastering and learning. A lot goes right – the students learn more, more finish, and we see a drop in the bullying. But we still know that e.g. background and gender mean too much for students' chances of success in school. We need a school that sees and lifts every student. Good teachers and school leaders are the key to this. So we have to make sure that they have time to do the core tasks, which are good education and school management. When working methods or reporting requirements do not increase the quality of training and steal important time, it is right to call them time thieves, and time thieves must be removed. The government has set up a working group of representatives of the main school groups. The work shall not be a limited project. The working group shall work continuously against time thieves in school. I am concerned that the group will not become a time thief in itself. This is a working group where Members are to discuss concrete problems. The working group shall present annually findings and recommendations to the managers of its organisations and to the Ministry of Knowledge. In order to succeed in working against time thieves, we politicians must listen to those who are going to implement the policy. For this reason, the members of the working group represent the breadth of school. We have teachers, school leaders, school owners and students. All of these shall be heard. We also have to think whole and long-term. Unlike previous processes, such as: with the Grindheim Committee, this working group shall work continuously on the subject and shall not restrict itself to demands from the school sector. This may increase the understanding of the overall scope of requirements for school leaders and teachers today. In addition, the working group shall assess how new measures or proposed changes may affect time use in school. The government has great ambitions for Norwegian school. In school, all students will experience learning and mastering. This is important for individuals and for society’s sustainability. These ambitions are reflected in the Granavolden platform, where we have many measures to help improve the school. One of these measures is precisely to reduce school bureaucracy by removing time thieves. In this context, the working group is an important tool for success.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1133	I thank you for the answer and I agree with the assumption for such a sample. However, I would like to remind you of what the Minister of Knowledge proclaimed last summer: 'We are continuing to hunt for time thieves in school.' But a good hunter knows that when you're going hunting, you have to know both the terrain and the right weapon – in other words, you have to recognize a time thief when you see it, and you have to know how to get rid of it. The feedback from teachers is unison: reporting and logging is what steals time from teaching, but it does not help to reduce the number of time thieves if new ones are introduced in practical policies. And this is where the government speaks with at least two tongues, because some of the most obvious signals in the government platform point in the wrong direction – namely, towards more testing, control and measurement of results. The center party wants trust-based management in school, where the teacher gets time to be a teacher. How can teachers get more time to help each student when the government's plan is to continue today's testing systems?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1140	The representative points to a dilemma in which I think everyone will feel – including the Stortinget. I happen to be in debates in Stortinget, where one hour is talking about trust and the other hour about the need for more reporting and control. That's exactly why it's important that we have a continuous work where some people look us in the cards. In terms of assessment and monitoring, the whole point is that it should help lift students. I have never met a student who says he has been discovered too early, but I have met many people who say that it has been discovered too late that they cannot write, read or calculate. The whole point of screening tests is that the teacher should have a tool so that you can lift the students who are going to be hanging after. Also, as school owners, we need knowledge about school so that we can raise the quality of school.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1147	I thank you for your answer. Reporting and management must be streamlined, and that's where we think it's a potential. I can be specific and refer to the Granavolden platform, where the government wants to continue the monitoring of learning outcomes throughout the school cycle continue transparency of school-level monitoring results follow-up work on the lower limit of school quality and systematic follow-up of school owners with persistently weak results follow up the existing competence requirements; introduce an extra school time in real time; start work with additional English in Vg2 and Vg3 reduce school bureaucracy Here there are contradictions when we can see that increasing levels of monitoring should go to the great purpose of making the school better, without the professional discretion being given room for action. How will the Council of State ensure that the implementation of the Time Thieves Committee's proposals is now realised?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1178	I must say then that we disagree, because reporting is necessary when it comes to quality in school and how we can lift each student. It is not in the wording that the representative refers to the need for more testing or more screening. It's about going on. And that's absolutely necessary to ensure that students who get hung up for get needed help and support. Openness around school outcomes is also essential in order to set floodlights in schools that do not work well enough. It's the students who suffer from poor school management and if they don't get enough help early enough. It is absolutely necessary to have a system that ensures that those schools that have ongoing challenges are also closely followed up. So school quality, help for the students, we have to follow closely up, and then we have to remove the school bureaucracy that doesn't lead to better quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1186	‘The Norwegian Post Office has decided that the mailboxes in the municipality of Devik in the Gloppe municipality should be moved about two kilometres away from the households. This gives the population a lot of bad mail services. Does the Council of State mean that the Post Norway has the possibility to move the mailboxes several kilometres away from the households of Devik, and will the same happen in other branches that are a few kilometres away from the main road?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1193	Let me first say that I am able to understand the indignation and frustration of those who must experience such a situation. However, the fall in the letter volume has escalated well over 10 pst. year-on-year in the last years. A half of the volume is expected until 2025. People, businesses and the public sector are well placed to communicate faster and more effectively through digital solutions, which provide benefits for society but also provide challenges. This development is required for the Post's economy. The item has a high fixed cost, while the fall in the amount of letters implies rapid and strongly decreasing revenues. In view of this, the delivery conditions must be such that one ensures two things in the future. One is a good and equivalent supply in the whole country also in the future; the other is that there must be room for some adaptations, in line with the drastically reduced demand. Therefore, the legislation allows the Post office to ask the owners of the mailbox to place the box further away from the usual distance requirements when the specific scattered bus or business makes the delivery unreasonably costly. Such exceptions may be made for up to 11,000 households and enterprises on a national basis. For those over two million other households, it is not possible to make such a decision. When it comes to the specific matter asked by the representative, I have been in contact with the Post, who has reported to the Department that the Post has made a self-assessment – they don't think it is justified to drive it about 2 km long municipal road to deliver to the households it is in. They refer to the work environment legislation in this context. I do not have the right to review or review the assessment made by the Post, but we have seen in several other cases that the Post and their users can find appropriate solutions. I hope one can also do that here. The current households in Devik in Gloppen will now receive their mail to Post in the store. In the reply to the Ministry, the post states that the company has a new view agreement if the road in question is improved, with a view to resuming the postal delivery to the households in question. That means I hope it'll be possible to get a solution to this that's reasonable, but that's an opportunity to grant an exception for 11,000 households.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1208	This shows that the government is still providing us with 90 p.m. society, where there are a few percent of people who are not to be offered as the others get. Today, on the right of the NRK, the inhabitants of Reinfjord in Troms have to travel to Burfjord from 1 April to pick up letters, bills and medicine. It takes up to 12 hours. Rita Isaksen, who runs a store on the island of Speldra, has to close the store a whole day to get mail. It goes fast to Play twice a week, but the Post has not found it possible – they say it is so expensive, there are several hundred thousand dollars each year. Where has it been of the social mission of the Post? The finance minister stood here today and boasted that it was given over 20 billion. kr in tax relief and tax relief. Hardly that much has gone to the inhabitants of Reinfjord. The Council of State will focus on what is actually small money, in order to establish proper agreements with, for example: People in Reinfjord, and that it is carried out by the Post that they take their social responsibility?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1217	The post must take its social responsibility. For this reason, the Government and the Government have determined that they cannot grant such exemptions for more than 11,000 households. It's all about having a major social mission. Our problem -- I can see that the Center Party doesn't like it -- is that we're moving in at a time when nobody uses the Post. And then the question is, how many empty mail cars are going to run around in Norway to provide services that no one anymore uses? That's the real challenge we're facing, because the central party has a lot of circuses with the government because of the 350-kroner limit. The loss of it led to further exacerbating the situation of the Post. There are several things that indicate that to a greater and greater extent we do well different solutions than the Post. It gives us great challenges in the future. And that also means the state and the public service supply have to adapt to the fact that people are changing.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1226	I thank you for your answer. Governments control a company called Bring. In Luster municipality in Sogn, there is a company called Avery Dennison NTP, with 130 added. There are also digital labels, which are somewhat smaller, but also produce high-quality labels for textile printing. Among other things, Barcelona, I think Avery has -- they have big football, Nike, etc. For these companies it has been a very important competitive advantage that they can get an order by day, produce in the afternoon, send it with the night press and get it delivered to the customer the next day. Without any warning, cut the night-express in the Luster municipality. The companies were suddenly informed by their customers that the packages had not been received. Bring was not such that they took a phone call to tell us about these changes. It exacerbates competition conditions. Post cars and Bring's cars are running parallel. Why can't the Council of States take initiatives to coordinate the Post and Bring? The number of packages doesn't go down, and then you can keep it together with both mail delivery and good services. Will the Council of State now ensure that Luster gets a night express?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1235	First, let me just correct: I'm not the owner of Bring, it's the Minister of Industry who is. It is therefore natural to address such questions to him. However, I will try to make an assessment of the question. It's essentially about how much we're going to act as owners and regulators in the same instant. What I am hearing from the Center Party is not distinguishing between the time a market is regulated, as we do for the Post, acting as a regulator, and the time one owns a single company and intervenes in the company's assessments, which are largely done on a commercial basis. At the moment we start doing this, these companies don't need private governance. Then, in principle, we can direct all companies directly from the Council of State offices. Nor did the Zenterparte mean that we were going to do, when they were in government. It's unlikely that they won't mean if they ever get back into government. It's about the state having to act neatly in the different roles we have. We do that, and we're going to continue to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1247	‘Over the past week, the Nordic media have read statements from the Minister of Transport on a Northern Railway where it is clear that the Council of State will not assess this. This is done by the Council of State while carrying out an investigation to be presented in the next national transport plan. How may the Council of State have concluded this before the investigation is available?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1254	I have not concluded, but I have said that these projects are not in the national transport plan, as the Stortinget has agreed, and that is due to 2029, and that is what I am doing. So I've said that in addition to that, there's an explanation. It is expected in the summer of 2019. We'll be able to evaluate it when it's done. She doesn't. I have said in an interview to a newspaper in Tromsø that it is not a short-term solution by rail to Tromsø to replace the demanding situation we have had on Norwegian winter roads in winter. What I don't mean is to cancel the conclusion in a statement that's started, it's to be honest and real about where we stand now, and what's short-term and possible long-term solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1261	I notice the Council of State's response, but it is not possible to misunderstand what has been said in the media. This is also seen in the opinions of a number of people and the population in northern Norway. We also see that a number of municipalities spend a lot of resources on this and now ask questions about whether there is only wasted work. Can we get an assurance from the Council of State that the government has not concluded on this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1268	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1273	I thank you for the answer and take it with me. At the same time, I want to challenge the Council of State, whether he can explain to a bunch of northerners who have been frustrated by the statements: Isn't this to lead the people in the north behind the light?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1280	It would have been okay if one hadn't decided on the follow-up question before a hearing my first answer, which I felt the representative is now doing far by the way. I have said and reasond in the interview I have given, that there is no money for this in the current NTP, which is attached in Stortinget, and that there is a distribution work to be completed in 2019. The government shall then make its assessments and, where appropriate, look at the basis for including them into future NTPs. I feel that it should be clarifying for the representative. Have I led anyone behind the light? The definitive answer to that must be no.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1290	‘At the same time as the Directorate-General for Railways commissioned by the Government to investigate the North Norway track, the Council of State replied in an interview with iTromsø on 4 February 2019 on whether further development of the rail system in North Norway was relevant: ‘No. And I don't think it's gonna come as a surprise to people. I believe that instead of extending the rail system, we have to connect freight traffic to the sea, so that we get fewer trains on the roads." What is the basis for the Council of State to conclude before the investigation is available?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1297	As I did well in reply to the representative Borch, I have not concluded until the settlement is complete. I've stuck to the current NTP. I gave this interview, and the answer, which is also referred to in the newspaper in that context, was about the situation on Norwegian winter roads in North Norway no, and to what extent an extension of the railway to Tromsø was a short-term solution to it. The answer to that was no. I have confirmed that I still believe that the answer is no today. There is always an NTP process running. The assessments that the Directorate-General for Railways is currently making, which will be completed in 2019, will be taken into account. Then we want to move forward to the next NTP process decide to what extent there is a basis for going forward with it. However, as short-term measures to address the challenges we are facing on Norwegian winter roads now, there cannot be a long-term response. I'm honest about that. It's not always worth being honest, but it's now at least the most real way to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1304	I found it positive that the Council of State here at last – he has not conducted a new interview with iTromsø – has abolished the impression that he was against the railways. It seemed to me that he could have assessed, but we can at least establish here and now that the Council of State has not concluded, that he has no basis to claim that there is no basis for rail northwards from Fauske to Narvik and from Narvik to Tromsø. He has no intention of saying anything like that. So the council says, what is going to solve the situation on the roads now? What he answers is that he believes that instead he has to connect freight traffic to the sea, that it is a no-action. So far, it has looked like it's also been a long-term measure, because there's not been a big deal in that area. That's why we have problems on the roads. Can the Council of State elaborate on the short-term measure for more goods at sea?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1311	Among other things, we have in the last few years, a system for transferring goods from road to sea, for which several actors have applied for and received support – on the basis of finding good projects that can actually contribute to the transfer of goods. Among other things, I have pointed to it as one of the answers. Then I know that there are local policy initiatives and initiatives from the ports of North Norway, etc., and there we have also said that we have schemes that they can apply for, either through the freight transfer system or through other schemes, which may lead to a concrete assessment. This has been done through the last few years that we have created arrangements for the transfer of goods that one has also been able to search for in North Norway. It's easy to be for freight. I am. Unfortunately, it has proved difficult to determine where the goods are going, and this means that even better integration between goods on the track and goods on the sea should be a priority in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1320	I don't know if I fully understood the answer to my question. Everyone is too much more good at sea; we've probably agreed – let's say – fifty times in the Storting that we are for, that we want more of it. Then we still have a very high level of vehicle train on the roads, and the level of accident increases, especially in Troms, the state where this is at the absolute highest level. And there's no sign that it's going to go down with the arrangements that the Council of State is sketching. I don't expect the Council of State to say that we're going to have a safe path now because we're going to have a big increase. But back to the main question, just so we get it fixed and recorded: what basis does the Council have to say that it should not be put on the rail in the north? What was he starting from when he answered that question? Was it only short/long term – that he was completely open in the long term, but in the short term it was a no?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1327	Let me just get straight with a couple of the statements first. For example, the accident rate on the Norwegian road is linked to: He's not going up, he's not going up, he's not going up, he's going down. There are still too many, but it's good to be real about what situation we actually have on the roads. So what I responded to in the interview. I have assumed that the NTP that the Storting has entered into is in debt. This means that most of the Norwegian railway investment in the years ahead for all practical purposes takes place within two actions. The one is a freight package. It is a measure in much of the country. The second is that we have priority at the expansion of intercity. It has been a clear priority on the part of the Storing. So I've said that based on that there's no reason to wait until we get to Tromsø, around the next door. A job is now done in the Railway Directorate. When that report is presented, of course, we make our assessments of it. Then we get a better basis for making concrete assessments until the next NTP.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1337	‘The Directorate of Railways is now investigating options for rail between Fauske and Tromsø and the results of the investigation are to enter the next roll-over of NTP. To the newspaper iTromsø, the Council of State has rejected such a railway, even though it is long before the process is completed. This has produced strong reactions in North Norway, where the need for a railway is seen on a daily basis, among other things. can solve freight transport challenges. Has the Council of State led the population in the north behind the light, and concluded?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1344	The answer to that is no.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1349	I thank you for the answer, and I have heard the other answers given to the two representatives before me. I'll quote the minister of what he actually said to iTromsø: ‘No. And I don't think it's gonna come as a surprise to people. I believe that instead of extending the rail system, we have to connect freight traffic to the sea. [[..]] It's a pretty clear statement that you don't want to do anything about the railway, and then my question is: does the Council of State think it's a constructive approach at a stage where you're going to get an investigation on the table to weigh for and against, to make that kind of statements? And then my question now to the minister will be: Does the minister regret the statements he made?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1361	No, I don't. Because I replied to this based on what is the current policy in today's national transport plan, I did not answer if I had concluded in advance on a payment that the Railway Directorate has not yet delivered. Today’s national transport plan does not contain this. I think the Storting over time should be happy that the government takes care of the decision on the big business, even when we comment on things outside. It may cause a little frustration sometimes, but it makes sense to know what the state always thinks about this, based on the decisions the Stortinget has made. Then we will see when the distribution takes place during 2019, what basis it provides for other assessments against upcoming national transport plans.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1368	It is especially when the left impression in iTroomsø is that you have said no. I hear what he says, but then I expect him to withdraw those statements. Yesterday the minister was at Senja, a very important part of Seafood North Norway. Then he probably felt a little bit about the body what it means to live in that part of the country, not least in view of all the freight traffic that is. I would like to remind you that in 2013 the container ship M/S Tege was shut down, and it created quite strong reactions. My question is: what measures does the Minister intend to put in place as an alternative? Because there's no railway in the county that I'm from, you can't move goods over from road to track. How are you actually going to move goods over to the sea?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1375	The challenge in this, for which I have done well in my previous answers, is that the goods usually find their way. This means that, among other things, have created this freight transfer system from road to sea that people have been able to search to try to move goods from road to sea. In the 2019 budget, we set up a mechanism for efficient and environmentally friendly ports that can help reduce costs and ensure that maritime transport becomes more competitive and that was the basis for the disappearance of M/S Tege in its time. It wasn't competitive, the option that was. One had to invest in a new boat. If it is unclear what I have said about this, I hope that this question hour has done the right thing so far, so that the representatives who have asked me questions about this today can safely return home and say that they have now received a guarantee, they can lower their shoulders, relax and wait for the payment. We're going to conclude when she's in charge.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1386	‘There is such a doubt as to the area standard and whether it might be contrary to the environmental protection law’s requirements. Nor does it take into account that many statesmen have sensitive distribution tasks, between other economies and jus, and that they have a duty to deal with specific issues. Why won't the Council of States take the initiative to change the land standards?'
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1393	On the first page of the Daily Newspaper on 7 January, it was claimed that the area standard for offices in new state construction projects violates the Working Environment Act. A week later in the same newspaper, the Director of the Labour Inspectorate states that they do not believe that the land standard is illegal. So there's no doubt about this question. The norm as such does not violate the requirements of the Working Environment Act. The Labour Inspectorate says that they make a concrete assessment on a case-by-case basis of compliance with the Health and Safety at Work Act. They consider, for example: light, noise, indoor climate and area up to the work tasks to be carried out in the premises. Different jobs will have different needs. That is precisely the point of a separate instruction on construction and rental matters. It says that each construction project should examine how the premises are to be designed to meet the functions and purposes they have to fulfil. If the area requirement is greater than the norm, it is allowed to deviate. All projects are different and therefore the spatial standard is flexible. The representative of Tajik considers that the norm does not take into account the specific tasks of civil servants. The land code says something about the size of the buildings to be planned. The design and adaptation of the buildings to the different tasks and functions of each establishment shall be explored in each project. A land standard will not exempt State establishments from the responsibility for determining the design of individual workplaces. For me, it is quite obvious that Norwegian laws and regulations should be followed in state-owned construction projects, as in all other construction projects. The norm doesn't break any rules, but it's a signal that premises are a resource we shouldn't waste on. The State, which builds for the Community's resources, must build soberly on the basis of the tasks to be carried out in the premises. Today’s forms of work and communication have ranged from paper to digital formats. It has changed the assumptions for what an office space must contain. When we build for the future, we have to take account of precisely these changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1406	It is nice to know that it is the opinion of the Council of State that land standards do not conflict with the Working Environment Act. However, I ask you how appropriate the norms you have chosen to operate with are. There is, after all, a norm that you have chosen to operate with without the employee association that the debt, the Norwegian Civil Service Team, feels to be sufficiently involved. One also sees that when it applies to the tasks of adding to the state, for example: in the departments such as the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Defence, and in so far as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the Ministry of Finance may also be so sensitive that it makes little sense to operate with an area standard in such a way as to do well here. My question is quite simply: can the Council of State say anything about what assessments it is associated with the specific challenges of departments such as Justice, Defence, Finance and Foreign Affairs, so as to ensure both efficiency and productivity and to ensure that there are some specific assessments related to this?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1413	The state is a big business. We own a lot of premises, and we rent a lot of premises. I think it's very appropriate that the state has some standards, some rules, some recommendations relating to what we build, where we're going to rent, and how much we're going to rent. I can tell the representative that I recently saw an overview of the rental facilities around the country, and the answer is simply that the state is renting much bigger and much more expensive than the private thing does. That's not good. We must not waste the Community's resources, we must be the nets. But of course we have to take into account that different businesses have different needs, and that's why this norm is a norm, it's a recommendation. It's based on the experiences you have. There is also experience from abroad, from private business, so you actually have a very good professional basis to make this assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1418	I would like to hear more about these experiences, both from private businesses and from other countries, to which the Council refers. The focus application passed through a part of the research. State buildings and the department refer to when they have operated on this land standard. Focus does not seem to be able to find any coverage for the claims of increased productivity and that it is appropriate. What is the reason why the Council of State is comfortable to go to the step of choosing it as some of the researchers will almost characterize as an experiment that has no basis for saying increases productivity. I'd like to hear from the Council of State more precisely what experience you've gained, so that you can choose this spatial norm for Norwegian states.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1423	I'm a little unsure whether that's the norm or whether that's the way a workplace is arranged, the representative asks for it. For the norm, something about the size, the volume -- an average volume. So it's like every business can set itself up in different ways, with activity-based workplaces, with cell offices, with still rooms – the way they think is best. I believe we answered the questions about the work that has been done in connection with the government quarter in depth. The representative asks in general, so my answer has also been general. There's been a series of reviews, and we have a lot of experience. We are a large owner, builder and tenant around the whole country. So we have a lot of experience building on when we fell down to 23 m2. So I'd like to say that this isn't exactly science. It could have been 22, it could have been 25. But this is the average we recommend when we're going into the market.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1436	‘In the context of the assessment of the Dalen mine in Brevik as a future landfill for inorganic waste, Porsgrund feel that the municipality is rightly run over by the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation. In the further consideration of the case, will the Council of State ensure that Porsground Municipality is involved as required by law and regulation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1443	The representative Andersen makes it clear that the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and the Ministry of Modernization has overrun Porsgrund Municipality in the case of a possible deposit for treated inorganic hazardous waste in the valley mines in Brevik, and that the law and regulations have not been complied with. In that case, there is a presentation I do not agree with. Based on the regulations of the Planning and Building Act on Impact Assessments, the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and the Ministry of Modernisation decided in January 2017 to appoint the Ministry of Climate and Environment as the responsible authority to define the programme for the Dalen miner. The decision was taken at the request of the Ministry of Climate and Environment, following the decision by the municipality of Porsgrön in 2015 not to establish the plan programme. The decision of the Department was based on the need to provide a necessary knowledge base on the matter. A planned programme was a prerequisite for the development of an impact study to determine whether the valley mines are suitable for landfills for the storage of inorganic hazardous waste. So the decision did not involve starting work on a regulatory plan, nor did it change the fact that the municipality is planning authority. A decision to appoint an authority other than the municipality to establish a planning programme does not require the consent of the municipality or other relevant authorities. The Ministry of Climate and Environment and the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation were well aware of Porsgrund's views on the matter in advance of the decision in January 2017. The Ministry has therefore rejected the fact that there was a procedural error in that the municipality was not heard. In this case, no decision has been taken on a possible deposit in the valley of mines other than that the Ministry of Climate and Environment was appointed as the responsible authority, so that the landfill option in Brevik could be verified. For example, no decision has been taken to use State regulatory plan. If there were to be a current issue with a government planning process in Brevik, I would of course refer to the rules that apply to participation and involvement, also by Porsgrön municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1456	The Council of State refers to the correct regulation, but it does not refer to the whole regulation, because the impact assessment regulation thus states that if the plan authority is to be transferred: ‘The Ministry of Communal and Modernisation may, in consultation with the relevant authorities, decide that an authority other than that resulting from the Regulation shall be responsible for plans under the Planning and Building Act if national or important regional considerations so require, or the plan includes several municipalities or counties.’;» It is precisely the background to my question that, in this case, the decision has not been taken in consultation with the relevant authorities, which are the Porsgrön municipality, but on the contrary, on Porsgrön municipality. That is the background to my question: will the Council of State, in future treatment, possibly state planning process, ensure that the legislation is complied with, contrary to what has been done so far?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1468	To stand and interpret the jus from the pulpit in Stortinget, I will be a little careful, but it is not that the planning authority has moved from Porskön municipality. It is such that the authority to establish a planning programme has moved to the Ministry of Climate and Environment. That regulation gives the Ministry the opportunity to do so, in consultation with other relevant authorities, including the Commission. Ministry of Climate and Environment. In the case of Porsground Municipality as the relevant authority, it is such that they have decided not to adopt this plan programme. They were also contacted by the Ministry of Climate and Environment, who said that there was a need to create this type of planning programme. Porsgrund was well aware of the municipality's attitude to this, but it was decided to give the Ministry of Climate and Environment – according to the law – the opportunity to create this plan programme. That's what this is all about, nothing more. Porcelain land municipality is and shall be planning authority.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1475	It is just a transfer of the planning authority that will take place in consultation with Porsgrön municipality, and it has not happened here, even if the council believes to know what Porsgrön municipality knew. But that's not the only rule of procedure that's broken here, because according to the Public Health Act, people should have the opportunity to ask questions about what's going on in the ministry. Porsgrund municipality has done that. They refused access to documents. In January 2018 they complained about the refusal to which they were entitled. They have repeated the complaint, they have requested the review procedure. It has even gone so far that the Civil Ombudsman has addressed the matter on his own initiative and said that it has been unacceptable for a long time before the complaint was dealt with. He says it should take a maximum of two weeks. What is the reality of this case is that after the department promised that they would get ahead of the case, nothing happened in October, not in November, but on 20 December, eleven months after the complaint, it was dealt with. Does the Council of State consider that the complaint is properly dealt with?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1482	It is true that the Civil Ombudsman said that this was too long. That's it, and of course we shouldn't have it. We're going to deal with it under the administrative law. When I said that, the Civil Ombudsman did not say anything about the content of the decision, and it is such that Porsfühne municipality has been given full and partial access to the case, they have received a justification in the case. Then there are some documents that are excluded, and they are exempted by the laws and regulations that apply. So we've been following the book, but it's taken too long, and we have to take it self-critically.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1492	‘An overall professional environment is concerned that the hospital plans in Oslo will provide patients with a lower hospital supply. Experts at the trauma centre at Ullevål Hospital say that a fragmentation of the current acute treatment environment at Ullevål presents a significant risk. At the same time, child clinic experts have warned that fragmentation will lead to risky transport of newborns with complications. Can the Council of State assure us that health plans do not pose a risk to life and health, as the professional community warns against?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1499	The government is concerned with creating patients' health care. Some of the hospital buildings in Oslo are among the worst in the country, and new buildings are absolutely necessary. Oslo grows, and Oslo University Hospital, together with the Diakon Home Hospital and Lovisenberg Hospital, will in the long term provide the entire population of Oslo with the hospital services they need. It will also release capacity on Aarhus for the growing population. We're now in the first step, which is a new clinic building and a proton center at the Radium Hospital. The governing decision in Health South-East is an important step forward towards the decision to initiate the construction of further new hospitals in Oslo. To replace Ullevål Hospital and to take account of a growing population, a large new local hospital with emergency facilities at Aker Hospital and a comprehensive and complete regional hospital, including local hospital facilities, will be established at Gaustad. Some of the background to the establishment of Oslo University Hospitals was precisely to bring together functions to a greater extent, and to make better use of highly specialised health professionals. This is important, not least for the rest of the country, where there are challenges in recruiting such highly specialised health professionals. It is the responsibility of the health undertaking to plan for new construction and to ensure the proper organisation of the service. There will always be many stakeholders in such a large development, which also involves changes in organisations and in future workplaces for employees. The important thing for me is to facilitate the delivery of the offer with good quality and capacity in the future. I have, of course, noticed the critical voices. As far as trauma treatment is concerned, I believe that Oslo University Hospital and Health South-East ensures that the service at Gaustad will get enough patients to perform the function and competence of Ullevål today. This does not conflict with the establishment of an emergency facility in a new Aker hospital. Today, the food supply in Oslo is shared between Ullevål and Gaustad. In the future, the food supply will be shared between Aker and Gaustad. The most advanced neonatal intensive provision for the whole region will, as today, also be given in Gaustad in the future, but it will also be neonatally intensive in Aker. I have also noticed that the board of Health South-East has asked for a closer look at the content of the business and operating concepts, among others. for trauma and emergency medicine and for neonatal medicine. So some of the questions that have now been asked will also be further clarified before the board meeting in June.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1514	The trauma centre is for Gaustad, and other emergency functions are for Aker. According to the trade unions – unisont – this is devastating, and the decision to split existing regional emergency functions has never been risk assessed. So Höie wants to split up a professional environment that has built up world-class lifesaving skills over decades. Today, Ullevål has a patient base of 480 000. A minimum of 240000 is required to obtain adequate quantity training. Gaustad will have a patient base of 150,000, and it can't be expanded that much, because there's too little space on the site. As a result, the safety of patients throughout the East is weakened. How does Höie defend a fragmentation of the professional community that means that the trauma centre in Gaustad will have too few patients to maintain the competence they currently have on Ullevål?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1523	No, the trauma environment at Ullevål should also be maintained at Gaustad. It also means that Gaustad should have a sufficient basis for emergency patients to maintain the current function, competence and environment of Ullevål. That's a prerequisite for the plans that are now going on. But that doesn't mean it's the opposite of having a big emergency offer on Aker. I record that the main criticism of the Gaustad option earlier was that it was too big. Now, obviously, Moxnes is worried that it's too small.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1530	Nils Oddvar Skaga, who is superior in traumatology, says: «All elements of the professional environment must be grouped together in one place and with sufficient patient volume and facilities to maintain and develop the service.» If health peaks succeed in killing Ullevål, critically ill and dying patients must be sent along Ring 3, from Aker Hospital to Gaustad, for lifesaving treatment. This is bad, and the whole thing is directly irresponsible. This is Norway's largest construction project ever, and the quality insurer, PricewaterhouseCoopers, says it is «significant uncertainty relating both to the investment costs and the operational economic gains». At the same time, the Ullevål option can be $10 billion cheaper. Why does Bent Höie not support a full investigation of Ullevål – not a lighting, but a full investigation – of the largest construction project in Norway? I want an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1545	Today, the highly specialised environment at Oslo University Hospital is divided into two places. It is unfortunate for the patients in Oslo, who just experience that they must be transported between Ullevål and the Radium Hospital in critical situations. That's not good for the people of Oslo. But what's also bad about it is that it's not good for the population in the rest of the country, because we have to have double functions in highly specialized areas where we lack specialists in the same areas in other hospitals in the country. So this is also very bad to maintain a decentralised specialist health offer in the rest of the country outside Oslo. I fully agree that there must be a sufficient patient base for the emergency reception at the new hospital, just to take care of the functions of Ullevål and the trauma environment there today, in the future. I assume that Health South-East is also following in their plans.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1555	‘In Stavanger, they now have to order employees to take care of the emergency. Employees believe they are being imposed on too many extra guards and too much overtime. For more than two years, at the emergency room in Haukeland University Hospital, employees have notified the management of the crew problems and the risk of emergency reception. In 2018, until November, 134 non-conformities were submitted. Following a death in the emergency department, the county doctor in Hordaland has recommended police investigation. Is the State Council safe on the quality and staffing of emergency facilities in the country's hospital?»
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1562	The emergency response at a hospital is particularly important to ensure that patients receive proper medical evaluation and prioritisation at the start of the patient course. Many departments are involved in the operation of the emergency reception facility – which strengthens the requirements of sound organisation and imposes high management and management requirements. It is the individual health undertaking responsible for the proper operation and staffing of the establishment. The representative Toppe draws up the emergency room at Stavanger University Hospital, where there is disagreement about the tour plan. Health Vest has informed me that the clinic management works closely with the employees and works systematically with measures that respond to alerts and concerns from the employees. The clinic also works with trustees and security officers to develop a tour that does not require overtime for employees to as much as now. The overall assessment of the health of the West is that the situation is being met with cooperation and relevant measures to provide a sound offer to patients. The representative Toppe also brings out the emergency reception at Haukeland University Hospital. Since 2007, they have been working on a new model for the reception, evaluation and prioritisation and further follow-up of patients admitted from the emergency department. The aim is that the patient – without delay – should receive rapid and accurate diagnostics and proper treatment at the right place in due time. I take a serious look at the matter of the emergency reception at Haukeland. I am informed that Health Bergen will take action to prevent similar events in reception, and the company has started working on an action plan to improve conditions. The Board of Health Bergen dealt with the matter in December. They have criticised the Executive Director and have asked Health Bergen to explain further measures. I assume that the board of Health Bergen will follow up the case, and have asked that Health West keep me informed about this. The representative Toppe asks if I am safe on the quality and staffing of the country's hospital in general. The monitoring of the emergency reception at Haukeland and the National Supervisory Authority in 2016-2018 show that there are still areas of improvement in the country's emergency reception.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1577	Thanks for the answer, but I react to what happens, among other things. in Stavanger and in Haukeland, it is explained that there is disunity about the tour. It's probably far more serious than I thought. When we read in Stavanger Aftenblad today that the nurses fear that there will also be deaths in the emergency room there – we know that they have warned for a long time, and that the supervisor in the supervision report in Health Bergen did not point out that they had added a mistake, but on system failure – I believe that this is a serious situation. The question I get from people who work in the health care system is whether it is necessary that a death occurs before an increase in basic staff in the emergency department, when there is a warning about understaffing that is a risk to patient safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1582	I did not say that the situation in Haukeland is due to disagreement about tour – I hope that the representative will withdraw. On the contrary, I made it very clear that we are looking very seriously at the situation in Haukeland, the background of this, and that has also been done by the government of Health Bergen. With regard to the situation in Health Stavanger, there has been a disagreement about Tournament, which I feel is now taking management seriously and working with the trustees to resolve, precisely in the light of the concerns and warnings that have come from the employees. It's before there's a serious incident, and I'm glad. That's how it should be, it shouldn't be necessary for a serious incident to occur. When employees are informed that they are concerned about patient safety and quality, they should be listened to and taken seriously in all hospitals of the country, regardless of which department it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1589	It was Stavanger I talked about when one showed that there was an inconsistency about the tour, and I think it is more serious than that. For even in Stavanger, the nurses reported – in March last year – that they were concerned about the situation, about the crew and about patient safety. They think that the ground crew at the emergency room is too low, and that too many hours must be covered with overtime and extra guards. That is, of course, exactly the same thing as trustees in Haukeland have been reporting for many years. So the situation is pretty parallel. I am pleased that the Minister of Health is clear that when trusted alerts, it will be taken seriously, but in fact many do not experience it, and in Haukeland there was a change only after a death. It's worrying. Is it so that one will get an extra crew also in Stavanger?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1596	The situation in Stavanger, on which I have been involved, is complex, and I am briefed that the clinic management works closely with the employees and works systematically with measures, just to meet the warnings and concerns of the employees. It also shows that Stavanger takes seriously the concerns of employees at the emergency room. Then there is also a job – and there is also the Protection Ombudsman involved – related to developing a tour and a work plan that does not require extra work, overtime, of the employees to such an extent. It has been reported that individual employees have had a significant overtime load, and that is something I am also pleased that the hospital and hospital management are serious. That's the way it should be. When notifying employees of circumstances that could compromise patient safety and quality and their health, environment and safety as employees, management shall take it seriously and cooperate with the trusted and protected representatives in order to remedy it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1604	‘When the United Kingdom leaves the EU, the EU population will decrease by more than 12pst. The EU’s GDP will be reduced by a percentage even more when the world’s sixth largest economy leaves the EU. The recently launched Article 19 Agreement through the EEA, which includes, inter alia: the quotas for duty-free imports of beef from the EU are greatly increased, negotiated and concluded with the EU, including the United Kingdom. How much does the government believe that EU duty-free quotas for exports of agricultural products should be reduced when the UK leaves the EU?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1611	Norway and the EU agreed on the terms of a new EEA Article 19 Agreement in April 2017. The measure approved this agreement on 16 June 2017 and formally entered into force on 1 October last year. Article 19 of the EEA Agreement requires that trading conditions be reviewed at intervals of two years. This means that the next review can take place at the earliest on 1 October 2020. If the United Kingdom agrees with the EU on a call-out agreement, the United Kingdom will be treated until the end of 2020 as being a member of the EU, i.e. until after the date on which Article 19 can be reviewed at the earliest. Should the United Kingdom leave the EU on 29 March without an agreement, this will not change the existing Article 19 agreement as adopted by the United Kingdom. This is because Article 19 has been agreed with the EU and will remain with the EU. There will be no reduction even if the United Kingdom goes out. There is no reservation in the agreement with regard to the number of Member States, no more or less, nor was there any reservation in the approval of the agreement by the Stortinge. This will also apply to other agreements we have with the EU, including those regulating the 49 duty-free quotas for Norwegian seafood for the EU. So these allowances are going to go on as before, even though the United Kingdom is going out. I would also like to add that imports from the United Kingdom of agricultural products are quite modest. We import annual agricultural products for approx. 2.5 B.C.E. from the United Kingdom of Great Britain of a total EU import of more than 41 billion. kr. However, of the agricultural products actually covered by the quotas in Article 19 agreements, imports represent only 30 million. kr, and consists mainly of about 300 tonnes of cheese of a total EU cheese import of about 12 000 tonnes. The government has not assessed the possible consequences of a British withdrawal from the EU with regard to future Article 19 agreements, i.e. those to be negotiated after 2020. Such an assessment we will only be able to do when we see what kind of final solution the ongoing brexit negotiations lead to. In any future process, the government will, of course, safeguard Norwegian agricultural interests in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1624	Where the Council of State refers to the nature of the premises contained in the existing Article 19 Agreement and the treatment of the Storting, the Central Party did not support the implementation of the new Article 19 Agreement. We voted against, including: due to the large impact it will have on exports to Norway of as large an increase in the duty-free quotas that the EU has. The food industry is the largest mainland industry in Norway. The value chain in food, from land to table, is 150 billion. SEK in turnover and 90 000 jobs – potentially significant consequences. So when the world's sixth largest economy leaves the EU, it also affects Norway, and then it should be logical for one Norwegian to take it up with the EU and say that there should be a reduction in quotas. What is Norway's concrete position in new negotiations with the EU in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1631	As I said, Norway is not going to talk about the future negotiations and positions until it becomes relevant, until we see what kind of agreement Britain and the EU get. It is true that the Senterpartiet voted against Article 19 of the Agreement, but it has a broad majority in the Stortinget. No reservations have been made about changing the size or composition of the EU, and it is worth noting that this happened a year after the British had voted for Brexit, so it was well known to the Stortinge if you wanted to make a similar change. It's worth noting that if you were to walk the path proposed by the Senter Party and reopen this, it would also mean that we get fewer fishing quotas that we can sell into the EU. This means that access to Norwegian seafood will be reduced accordingly, and I assume that the representative Gülsvik is not interested in it either.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1644	There's no automation in it. As regards access to Norwegian exports of seafood, when the British leave the EU, the export we have to the United Kingdom today is worth more than 5 billion. kr, something we must also try to ensure through our agreements with the British, without it being guaranteed by the EU. British exit from the EU has implications for Norwegian interests. The fact that there were no conditions on the part of the majority of the population and the government when a massively increased duty-free quota was opened by the EU, while the EU is becoming smaller – the UK is about to go out – also shows how unwise it was for the majority to go into the new Article 19 agreement. There is a whole new situation that arises when the British leave the EU. The EEA Agreement also has mechanisms for new initiatives by Norway. Will Norway immediately take a new initiative in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1653	As I've answered in two rounds, the answer to that is no. These assumptions were well known both to the Stortinget and to Norway at the time the agreement was concluded, because it was a year after the British had voted in favour of Brexit. But that sums up the view of the Central Party in a rather fine way, I think, when you say that of course there should be no automatic reduction in quotas to export fish to the EU, while we are going to close the door to import agricultural products from the EU because the United Kingdom is going out. There is an attitude towards a kind of ‘cherry picking’ that has no resonance whatsoever, either in the EU or very many other places. One of the reasons we don't want to open this up is precisely because, as part of this, we also see that we have market access for fish, which is unusually important for Norway. There's no reason to reopen this either. I also think it is worth remembering that the real increase in import quotas is rather modest, compared to what was existing imports and expected import needs in the coming years. There are several products that are protected in this, which is well known, and therefore it is not relevant for the government to open this before you should, after two years.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1665	This question, from the representative Sigrid Simensen Ilsøy to the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, is raised by the representative Per Olaf Lundteg.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1670	‘The Government published on 5 February its revised anti-crime strategy under heading 20 ‘Strengthened enforcement of illegal rentals’. It states, inter alia, that the Directorate of Labour and Welfare will strengthen controls in the award of contracts and in the follow-up of contracts concluded in order to ensure that their suppliers comply with applicable laws and regulations. How should the government strengthen the enforcement of illegal rentals when the Labour Inspectorate is currently not authorised to determine what is illegal rental?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1677	In connection with the change in the rental rules last year, the government announced in the bill that we would start work on looking at the rules for the enforcement of the rental rules. Request decisions have also been taken by Stortinget on this matter. The aim is to find measures to strengthen compliance with the rules and to prevent illegal rental. In this context, the role and supervisory competence of the Labour Inspectorate is central. This work is well underway, and we aim to send a proposal for consultation during the spring of 2019. As is known, legislative changes should both be investigated and consulted, and an instruction on the investigation of state measures, including legislative proposals. In this case, it is particularly important to involve the parties, also in the process. An extension of the role of the Labour Inspectorate in the lease-in area affects, inter alia: fundamental issues of the distinction between private and public law enforcement and raise different issues that need to be addressed and addressed, including administrative and economic implications. I want to strengthen compliance with the rental rules, and we are now working to find out how best to do this. For the sake of order, I mention that the Labour Inspectorate can already ask for the lessee and temporary agency to provide evidence that the lease-in activity is bound by a collective agreement concluded with a trade union with the right to cancel, and that agreement has been reached with the trustees. So the Labour Inspectorate already has some control function in terms of renting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1688	The background to my question is given in the heading ‘Strengthened enforcement of illegal rentals’. Anyone who reads that title believes that one should strengthen enforcement in relation to what has been in the past. What the Council of State now says is that you do not have a legal basis to strengthen enforcement because the Working Environment Act § 18-6 has not been amended. Therefore, my follow-up question is: Is there a match between the title of what is written in the document entitled Strategy for Labour Crime – revised on 5 February 2019, from the ministries – and what is the actual content, as the Council of State has now answered?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1693	Yes, I feel that there is consistency between them. Both what the government said in the bill that the Stortinge treated last year, and what the Stortinge adopted in its request decision, were about looking at the rules for the enforcement of the rental rules, and how to enforce them better. It was also requested by both employees and employers, and it has been seen that there have been challenges there. Now the Storting went a little further, I mean to remember, in their decisions. Some of the challenges that have been posed by this, and which have also been called for by the Storting, are that it will be able to change the competence of the Labour Inspectorate not only in knowledge and professional competence, but also the decision-making competence of the Labour Inspectorate. As I said in my previous reply, it will also affect the relationship between the private and public law enforcement of the rules, which we need to look at. But we'll come back to this later, in our own proposition. The strategy against crime at work refers to the work being done to a large extent.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1700	The correct heading of item 20 would then be that the government will come back to the reinforced enforcement of illegal rental. That would be the exact heading. I am sorry to say that such incorrect descriptions from the government are gradually becoming a problem for the whole discussion. The point 20 is that the so-called enhanced enforcement is related to the many commitments entered into with the staff agencies. My follow-up question is then: are the contracts of intent with the employment agencies such that the government is demanding permanent employment and that one has an average calculation of employment, so that one does not circumvent what was agreed by the Storting through the regulations, such as: 5 % contracts not accepted?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1707	After all, the Stortinget has now adopted a new legislation on lease-in, which, in my opinion, sets a very clear and strict framework for what is possible. The Government proposed in its original proposal, among others: clarifying what was fixed employment, what was to be in it. Only this proposal by the government would mean that the so-called zero-hour contracts – where there is no pay between assignments – are no longer the cause. This legislation has been considerably tightened up, and of course the agencies have to follow it. Low job rates are allowed. There has been one thing that I have read about in the media recently, about an agency that employs in 5 percent jobs. Whether it's legal or not, I can't answer here. The nature of the work determines to what extent the contract is lawful or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1717	‘What action will the Council of State take to reduce the proportion of temporary employment in research and higher education to the level of other employment, in addition to waiting for the effect of a law, i.e. the State Employment Act, which has worked for one and a half years?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1722	Permanent employment shall be the general rule of the Norwegian labour force, and the government's policy on this matter was established in the Granavolden platform at the latest. The Ministry of Knowledge is constantly working to reduce the proportion of temporary employment in the university and higher education sectors. The proportion is still too high, even though we have recorded a drop of 2.7 percentage points in the last five years. In 2013 the temporary period was 16.1 p.m., while in 2018 it was 14.8 p.m. The government's aim is to further reduce the temporaryity of the UH sector, so that we will eventually come down to the same level as the rest of the world of work, which is now 8.4 pst. The UH institutions must have a high degree of autonomy and professional freedom, but at the same time I believe that they must contribute to the achievement of reduced temporaryity by the institutions, and quickly. The Ministry implements several measures to reduce the temporaryity of the sector. Among other things, we ask for detailed reporting on temporaryity, and we closely follow developments and review it in the etat management meetings we have. Institutions with weak development have been required to draw up action plans to reduce the temporaryity. Some institutions have been required to go through all temporary employment and report in detail, which has produced good results. A legislative committee shall carry out an overall review and evaluation of the legislation of universities and higher education institutions. I have also invited Vice-Chancellors at some selected universities and colleges to a meeting on this topic at the end of March to ensure that several of them reduce the use of temporaryity. Rector meetings can be a good venue for sharing experiences and promoting best practice in the sector. I want to challenge the principals in the meeting to make bolder choices to hire employees firmly to a greater extent than they have now. It's an unculture when our universities and colleges recruit people temporarily where they could have hired them permanently. I'm going to do something about that. Provisional additions create uncertainty for individuals. Nor does it contribute to the long-term and professional development of public services of high quality to society. I will therefore continue to work specifically to reduce the temporaryity of the university and higher education sectors.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1737	Thanks for the answer. In the Workers' Party, we see it as totally unacceptable that the temporaryity in the Academy is twice as high as in the rest of the world of work. It's quite obvious that a power cap is needed to get it down. We're going to follow closely the developments in the temporary period, and I'm concerned with the statistics that are being performed, and that the numerical basis for it is certain. The research community believes that there is a need to go through the data base, in order to ensure agreed practice and, for example, to improve the quality of the data. avoid misregistration of annual target positions as permanent posts. Will the Council of State provide such a review?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1746	It is quite right that the representative points out that this is something that the Swedish Research Association has been concerned about. We have a statistics that show a decline, where there is also some uncertainty about the figures – whether the records have been made correctly – but also some disagreement about what should be regarded as permanent posts and what should be temporary posts, especially when it comes to posts with annual targets. The most important thing for me is that we see a decline in temporaryity. Clearly, the statistics we use are important to follow developments over time. The way it's registered, and the means we can use, is definitely going to be a topic at the meeting I'm going to have with the principals later, in March.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1753	There are many reasons why the Workers' Party will reduce the temporaryity of universities and colleges. As the Council of State went on to say, safe jobs are important for individuals and for society. High temporaryity can make research a less attractive career path, not least for younger researchers. Furthermore, we see that it affects women more than men. Recently, the Vice-Chairman of the Academy of Younger Researchers warned that there is a clear tendency that women will not recommend the research profession to the same degree as men. Temporary jobs create an uncertainty that makes women more likely to opt out of academic careers. What will the Council of State do to prevent temporaryity from affecting women in particular and, ultimately, equality in Norwegian research?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1760	I am concerned that in the university and higher education sectors we should attract the very best people. Then we can't just recruit from one part of the population, then we have to have both women and men. It is alarming when we see that people can go over a very long time and still have not got a steady position. I believe that there is a great room for universities here to use the legislation they have, to employ more firmly rather than temporarily. They don't use that room to a large extent today. As the Council of State, I would like to be clear to them – if they want the professional freedom, the autonomy, which we are all committed to having, they must take the responsibility that goes with it. They haven't done that when it comes to temporaryity. That's exactly why I called the meeting in March. It's about making those who are in a position to hire their people more firmly.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1768	«Trøndelag Forschung und Entwicklung has «kniveten på strupen» according to the Research Forum's journal 2/2019. With 17 employees, they do not meet the requirement for 20 years of research, nor do they meet the number of publication points per year. Director Skogvold says that they have worked towards the regional market. How does the Council of State think that annual and annual publication credits will help to raise regional research and development in Trøndelag, and what is the value of the region’s potential merger?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1775	Common research and development teams, or TFU, as they are also called, receive basic government funding from the Ministry of Knowledge, via the Research Council, in accordance with the «Government Guidelines for State Basic Funding of Research Institutes». These guidelines are laid down by the Ministry. The basic funding is not rights-based. The guidelines lay down general requirements for a research institute in order to be able to receive basic government funding. The Norwegian Research Council has a strategic responsibility for the research institutes and has elaborated the requirements of the guidelines. Research and development teams over several years have not met two of the requirements for basic government funding. This applies to the requirement of scientific quality, inter alia: measured by scientific publication and the number of year-on-year research works. On the other hand, the institution cuts over the requirement for commission revenue. I'm concerned that we're going to have good research environments across the country. I'm less concerned with the size of the research communities, especially outside the big cities. That is why I have also said that I am not going to follow up the Research Council's proposal on 40 research annuals to receive basic funding. However, research needs to be of high quality, including a minimum amount of scientific publication, which is a specific feature of a research institution, irrespective of where it may be located. The Research Council has recommended that Trøndelag Research and Development be taken out of the basic funding scheme from 2019, but despite that recommendation, I have chosen to continue the funding in 2019. The condition then is that by the end of 2019, the TFU will complete and complete a merger with another R & D institution. A merger could give rise to the research activities of the TR & D, contribute to improving the quality of research and at the same time make the research institution less vulnerable to changes in the human resources situation. I assume that the region will serve and not tap into the Institute merging with others. In the same statement in the Research Forum to which the representative Knutsdatter Strand refers, the Director of the TFOU states that the Institute has had a strategy to enter a larger research unit and that they probably had worked in exactly the same direction, regardless of the decision in the Ministry. I take this as an expression that the Department and the Institute agree that a merger will serve the research activities of the Institute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1788	It is good that the research institution is active and throws itself around when, fortunately, the funding is continued in 2019 as well. At the same time, single challenges cannot justify cutting everyone over one comb and saying that bigger is better. In recent years, there has been an extensive pooling of academic institutions in Norway. The main reason has been that larger environments improve research. There has long been a widespread perception in the academic community and in government policy. In addition, it is often claimed that the number of researchers has to be above a certain threshold for the environment to achieve a so-called critical mass, but in a new study from the NIFU this is denied. Publications and citations include both small, medium-sized and large research environments. Will the State Council review the merger requirements of institutions?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1797	Now we have an institute project going on in the department, where we get a general view of our institute policy. At the same time, we have received a synthesis report from the Research Council, which includes: this size became a theme. Many were alarmed when they saw the Research Council propose to increase from 20 employees to 40, and several of the smaller institutes – especially outside the big cities – reacted to it. That's why I was very concerned about early going out and saying that there was nothing I wanted to follow up, precisely because it's not necessarily size in itself that makes you a good research institution or not. But I'm concerned that we're going to have a high quality of the research that's going on, no matter where it happens in the country, and the TFOU has two demands that they haven't been able to follow up over time, among other things. scientific quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1806	It is good that quality is not necessarily about the number, but there is a point that when you are just below today's requirements, there is also a basis for asking questions about today's requirements. Research and development teams do not meet the requirement for publication credits per year, but as the regional research institute, they have chosen to give priority to the regional market and the need for good professional investigations. The Centre Party considers this to be of great value and is the basis for regional research environments and researchers. When time and again it is proved that bigger is not necessarily better, it is well time to assess the institutions and how they solve their overall societal mission and what parameters they are measured by. Does the Council of State consider it more important that researchers in Trøndelag and other regions publish articles in journals than that they provide work that creates development locally and regionally?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1815	The objective of the State basic funding of research institutes is to ensure a strong institutional sector capable of providing relevant competences and research services of high international quality to business and the public sector. Trøndelag Research and development has a high proportion of commission income, and most of the commission income comes from government and business in Trøndelag. This means that the institution is relevant to the region in which they are located, but high mission revenue does not necessarily mean that the institution delivers high-quality research. I believe that here there is a potential for the TFU to increase its quality in research. That is why I believe that a merger, either with a university or with another research institute, would help to strengthen the mission that this institute has, including in the region where they are located.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1827	I would like to ask the following questions to the Minister for Research and Higher Education: ‘When the government promoted the structural reform of higher education, it was stressed that the reform should not lead to the closure of study places. Furthermore, it was emphasised that institutions are key actors in regional development and value creation. In the Nordic University Award Letter for 2019, the government notes that it is challenging with great geographical spread and asks the board to adopt a new structure. How will the Council of State prevent the centralisation of study provision and places?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1836	Good access to education and competence across the country, regional development and high-quality education and research were key objectives of the structural reform. When various courses are offered by many universities and colleges in too many places of study, they provide small professional environments and too much competition for professionals and students. It is important that institutions, after aggregations, make thorough assessments of the disciplines and training provision. Universities and colleges need to find out what is offered where, in order to best meet the needs of society and the region. The structure message clearly states: «The mergers that the government will undertake relate to institutions, not to study places.» It follows from the Law of the University and the Higher Education Act that the Board of Directors of a university or higher education institution is responsible for determining the organisation. So even though the governments are responsible for making the decisions, I, of course, as the Council of State, have expectations of the assessments that governments are going to make. Some of the expectations of Nord University are reflected in the development agreement concluded between the board and the ministry and included in the letter of award to the university. The development agreement has been established in a dialogue between the ministry and the university, and it is based on the strategy established by the university itself. An important element of the agreement is the decision of the Board of Directors on the location of study. But I think it is important that we also look at the whole of the agreement. The objective is to: «North University shall provide attractive places of study with an efficient and qualitatively good learning and working environment». Decision on study location structure, campus development plan and digitisation plan shall support this fact. It is a clear objective that education ‘must be relevant to social and work life’. It is also a separate point on teacher training and that it must meet the needs of the region. I have made clear expectations that Nord University will develop the university so that they can meet the needs of the region. I trust that the board and Nord University will listen to regional actors and make their assessments thoroughly. Finally, I also allow myself to mention that when we presented the study barometer yesterday, the teacher training at Nord universitet came out well. It's very joyful. It just shows that the university is able to deliver an education that students are very pleased with.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1868	When the study barometer shows that North University offers its students very attractive and good study offers, I think it's a little strange that a lot of time is driving and talking about creating more attractive offers and more quality at Nord University. For Nord universitet, obviously scores very well on part of their education in relation to other places of study in terms of well-being and learning environment for students. I had hoped that the Council of State here could have ruled that the ministry would facilitate the centralisation of the study places. When you look at the training offered, both for nurses and for teachers, it is simply very difficult to understand that it is going to be a little better if you centralize the places where you study. So I'm going to ask again, because it was said in 2015 that one was not going to drop out of study places: couldn't the Council of State today confirm that that's not what the department has thought in its documents?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1877	North University has quite significant challenges ahead of it. But I think it's a pleasure when we see the study barometer, which is just lifting up the teacher's education. It's true, as the representative also says, there's been a lot of discussion about the study site structure. I expect the board to deal with that question in a thorough manner. They have also provided a number of points on which to base their assessment. But let me just say it quite clearly from Stortinget's pulpit that the Ministry of Knowledge has not given any signals or provided any expectation that Nord University will reduce campus by one or more places of study.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1884	Despite being able to interpret it this way from the letter of assignment, I choose to interpret the Council of State so today that the Ministry does not propose that a person should be able to require a centralisation of the places of study, and that is for the most part good. But I hope then that the board does not get confused by the letter of assignment, which is a little bit more unclear right at that point. Each of these places of study is old colleges. Each of them was created by its own decision-making process. The fact that a board of an institution is going to shut down the university community that has been established for decades is meaningless, even when we know that more places of study are needed for nurses. There is a need for each place of study to be nursed, for more places of study to be nursed, and for places of practice to be used. This, in cooperation with the region and the hospitals in the region, is linked to the individual places of study and, as has been said, to the fact that there is already a very attractive teacher training course in which the apprenticeships are today, and they should remain there.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1891	It is the responsibility of the boards to review their location structure and have an appropriate organisation of their university. But they also have a social mission to fill, and the arguments that come from the representative Arnstad are just such things that the board must also consider. Attractive training is provided, with a regional business and work life that needs the skills. The Management Board itself has stated that points such as high-quality research, knowledge and research-based development in the region, regional involvement and contributions are things they should include in their assessment when looking at the study structure. But I want to repeat, so that it really is underlined, that the Ministry of Knowledge has no expectations – or has given us signals that we want – that there should be one or more places of study at the University of Nord.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1901	This question, from the representative Maria Aasen-Svensrud to the Minister for Justice and Immigration, will be raised by the representative Tellef Inge Mørland.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1906	‘Arendal prison, Title Evje, has now been completed. A nice new building with 10 enclosed spaces, in addition, Evje is arranged for the reception of 20 prisoners for open adjournment. This is an exciting and expensive project in criminal care, especially adapted to women. Nevertheless, it does not seem that the whole offer is ready to open according to the plan. What initiative will the Council of State take to ensure that the whole of Title Evje will be opened after the plan on 1 April?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1913	In the questionnaire a week ago, I received a follow-up question from the representative Maria Aasen-Svensrud regarding the situation at Arendal Prison, any department, that neither employees nor operating resources are available to start the department until 1 April, and about how I imagined this would work. This was new information for me, and I am glad that the representative takes this up again, so that this matter can be clarified. The government is working to ensure safe and equivalent conditions for women in prison. Against this background, the Government follows up the Grand Duchy’s request to extend the Arendal prison, any department, with 10 high-level security posts, and to convert the department into a prison adapted to women. In addition to the new places, the department has 20 places with a lower level of safety. The Department will be an important offer and action to improve the provision of services to women. The establishment management dialogue between the Ministry of Justice and the Directorate of Criminal Affairs has clarified that the enlarged and restructured department of Evje will be ready to open at the end of the first quarter, i.e. 1 April this year. The Ministry has taken up with the Directorate of Criminal Welfare the information that the department cannot start up as planned. The directorate has assured me that the plan to open April 1st this year is in place. This applies to locations with a high and lower level of safety. I am therefore happy to announce that this important offer can start as intended.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1922	It is good that the Council of State confirms that it should open. But is it the case that the trust-elects whom I met a week ago at Evje are completely wrong when they say that there is a lack of approx. Between 15 and 20 million. Is it operational and they don't have that money? Even the warden is quoted on the same page in the Seat Room. The ambition to open on April 1st is very good, but the employees also say that there are no recruits, because there is no money to cover up all the staff that will be there on April 1st. So my question to the Council of State is, how is it to be practically implemented to open up the entire prison on 1 April, when the staff at the Evje department say that there is no money for it as of today?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1927	I have no insight into what the employees have said to the staging representative. Of course, I am dealing with the directorate, which is my office, and they assure me that the date 1 April is maintained according to the plan. It's not like I can travel around and check all of the prisons we have, it's almost 5,000 employees and 5 billion. kr in the budget. When the director says the prison should be in place, I have to base it. What the representative asks about is what will happen in the future. Then we'll see what happens in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1936	I understand that a Minister of Justice cannot fully understand what is happening in all prisons. This is precisely why the opposition uses this opportunity to ask the Council of State prepared questions, so that the Council of State can obtain answers. My follow-up question is: how do they imagine they're going to carry out this opening? Do they intend to add more funds to any department, or do they envisage other types of solutions to achieve this? It is both trust-elected and those who are responsible for the operation of the department, who say that these are not funds. After the question today, will there be new signals from the directorate that you will get the funds that are needed?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1941	I have given an answer, and that is that this is according to the plan, 1 April. So it's like the representative refuses to accept and deal with that answer. But that's the answer. Trustees are not required to operate or be responsible for operating a prison. It's the Crime Department that has. He's in prison. The Directorate will inform you back that they are ready to operate it from 1 April, as planned.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1951	If I may, I would like to congratulate Minister of State – Minister Kjell Ingolf Ropstad. Now he might have had a longing for home when he heard about Evje and Hornnes, but that's not what my question is about: «Last year the Stortinget adopted the following on the initiative of the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party: ‘The government is asked to secure long-term and ongoing contracts with non-profit institutions serving households, leading to an increase in the proportion of non-profit institutions serving households to around 40 p.m. by 2025, while not reducing the public share of institutional places.» In the Government Platform, the mention of the public interest has been omitted. Ideal actors have reacted strongly to this. What is the reason for this change?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1965	First, thank you very much for your congratulations. The length of the home is limited when there was such a good response and a guarantee that the prison at Evje will start as planned. But to the question from the representative Henriksen: I am very pleased that ideal actors are a good and important partner for the public, not only in child protection, but also in other sectors. I am very concerned about strengthening the non-profit sector and stress that a strong civil sector and a strong voluntary nature are something that is very positive for Norway. It is well known that the Christian People's Party negotiating delegation, which was at Granavolden, was especially concerned with lifting that particular sector, and the government parties even created a separate chapter for the non-profit sector in the platform. When I visited the Blue Cross last week, the Secretary-General said that this was the ideal sector platform of the time. This is a little bit of the starting point for raising the point of 40 pst. ideal in that way. Ideals have a long experience in the child protection sector. They have a high level of competence and a high level of professional commitment. In 2015, the government therefore concluded a cooperation agreement with non-profit providers on the provision of health and social services, inter alia. with a view to improving the framework conditions for the non-profit sector. As regards the specific May 2015 decision to which the representative refers, last year Bufdir received a mandate to assess how the Stortinge decision can best be implemented. Of course, the mission included the full decision on the aggregate, including the assumption that the public interest should not be reduced. In addition, in the 2019 letter of award, Bufdir has been given a mandate to take account of the Storting decision in its ongoing work on the capacity and content of the institutional offer. I myself voted in favour of this decision in Stortinget. Therefore, let there be no doubt that I will now work as the Council of State to follow it up. My main focus is the best possible offer for the kids. It is not beneficial for children to move away from well-functioning measures. Both where the offer is built, i.e. with the ideals, and where the offer is being built down, i.e. with the commercial ones, the goal must be that the changes do not affect the children. The quality must be good enough in the new offers and must be maintained in the measures to be phased out. We are now working to get a good overview of any cost and quality impacts or challenges that the decision may have, and I will return to the Stortinget on the follow-up in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1982	It was a relatively clarifying answer. But there is still uncertainty about the interpretation of the government platform, because in our country, the representative Örmen Johnsen of the family and cultural committee, after this became a question, says the following: «The committee's intention was that we want more ideals. The wording in the statement does not break with what was our intention and with the decision. We have not said that we do not want commercial players, even though Ap and SV want fewer." So what the Council of State has just said is that Ormmen Johnsen is wrong. Can the Council of State confirm that Ørmen Johnsen is wrong when she claims that the desire to increase the proportion of ideals at the expense of commercials is a position of the Workers' Party and SV is alone about, and that it is now the government's policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1992	I can assure the representative Henriksen that of course we follow up the decisions taken in Stortinget. The background to the formulations was that we were especially concerned with lifting the non-profit sector. We've been doing that for a long time. I can assure the representative Henriksen that, as I said, we are going to focus in particular on the quality of the offers being very good, and not least that the children are the starting point for that work. That's why we're going to follow up the whole decision, also the piece that's about the public.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e1997	I hope this might calm someone down, but the Blue Cross was in the media at the latest today and said, in a popular language, that they don't believe it until they see it. That's what we're excited about all men: how is this really followed up? Both the CRUX and the Salvation Army have been very limited in enthusiasm – to put it that way – and very concerned about this. Some of the concern is about what the Council of State was about, this with quality. What the volunteers say is that they first depend on a strong public sector in order to be able to have good quality on their own, and that they depend on being able to share knowledge among the actors. And it doesn't make the commercial -- what becomes good services is going to be perceived as business secrets. How will the Council of State respond to that challenge, if there are still to be commercial elements in the service?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e2002	We are very concerned that the quality is optimal. I focus a lot on that, just to measure the quality. It is not that private, commercial have bad offers. There may also be examples of poor public supply. No matter who runs it, we're very concerned that the quality is good enough. When it comes to lifting the non-profit sector without going at the expense of the public, it is not said that it will not be part of the private, commercial sector in the future as well. Then we're going to be very concerned — in line with whether it's ideal or public that's driving it — that the quality is best, considering the kids. I have also looked back in history, and I see that during the red-greens there was a decline in the proportion of annuals driven by ideals and a pretty strong increase in commercials, so this has been a long-term challenge. At least I'm very concerned that we're going to be able to reverse that trend and strengthen the ideal share of the institutional space.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e2015	I will ask the Minister for Children and Family Affairs the following questions: ‘The child-restraint staff are rebelling under the #heierne topicknagg, for increased staffing. In 2011, there were estimated 1 500 missing employees in municipal child protection. Therefore, the government started a step up with earmarked funds for a total of 890 new posts. The Solberg government has cancelled the escalation and only delivered 120 new jobs until 2018, with no new jobs in 2019. Does the Council have an overview of the need for jobs now, and does he believe that the staffing is good enough?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e2024	I would like to thank you for the question and I am pleased for the commitment that the employees of Child Protection are showing just through the ##hei campaign. I take seriously that many municipal child protection services report major capacity challenges, and I understand that many people also experience a large labour pressure. The feedback from employees may indicate that more municipalities should give priority to the protection of children than they do today. At the same time, I believe that the concrete assessments of the adequacy of the staffing of child protection services should be made locally. It is the individual municipality that is in the best position to prioritize resources and actions where they believe the need and benefits are greatest. I will make it possible for the municipalities to manage their responsibilities in a good way, while at the same time strengthening the ownership of the municipalities for the protection of children. The state of the childcare services shall be regularly assessed. It shall become more visible which municipality does not give sufficient priority to the protection of children. The county councillors have discussions with the management of all municipalities to discuss the situation and staffing of child protection services. I want to make stronger demands on the content of child protection, and I also want to make demands that the local council annually assess the quality of child protection services. This is how the situation in the protection of children is to be raised on the agenda of municipalities. At the same time, the government has ensured that child protection services have better access to skills and other professional support. We are also active inside and follow up the municipalities that work the most. In the question, the representative of the Supreme Court indicates that in 2011 there was an estimated need for 1,500 more municipal child protection posts. The increase in the number of jobs since 2011 has been around this level. We have continued and strengthened the earmarked funds for positions in municipal child protection. In addition, we have enabled municipalities to achieve a significant increase in annual work in municipal child protection, and in the years 2014, 2015, 2016 and 2017 there has been an increase of 1,150 more annual work in child protection services. It shows that we're on the right track.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e2037	Thanks for the answer. The municipalities have a great responsibility, we often hear that when we discuss this matter, and that is also true. But we all agree that the state should provide a minimum standard, not least for critical services – those that are all, most importantly – so not for example. The pressured local economy or other local conditions can get in the way of a good enough offer. For example, in the case of Stavanger, they have not received any posts from the state since 2014, when they got 17 under the red-green child protection promise. Then they got two from the municipality itself, in 2019. But until now, the need has increased by 20 pst, says the employees themselves, and then the 15 new jobs are needed to meet that need. Is not child protection such a critical service for which the State and national policies should also take responsibility for a minimum standard?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e2048	Child protection is a very important part of the work to secure the most vulnerable kids we have. My goal is to minimise the need for child protection, for municipalities to do such a good job, and for us to do such a good job together, that prevention is so good that there is no need for child protection. So I realize that it might be a bit of an ambition to have, and that's why I'm concerned that child protection has the quality needed to do a good job. So I make clear demands on quality, and then I am concerned that local politicians know best what the need is. I visited Stavanger on Friday and heard about the same challenges, and I believe that the municipality has to take this seriously. At the health agency in Bergen, just 25 million were allocated. kr to several child-restraint workers, because they thought it was the grip that was necessary. So I am very concerned that the municipalities are taking action, and through increased appropriations for the municipalities, I am happy that the municipalities have also done that priority. But they're the ones who know best what works best... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e2055	It is true that there have been increases in the municipality, that the municipalities themselves have prioritised child protection around. But part of my question was whether you can also take into account what the need is, as we did in 2011. I have not registered a response from the Council so far. Therefore, I will try to repeat the question of whether that increase has been enough to meet, for example. new requirements for documentation, new requirements for methodology – things that take time to protect children, which make employees so clear that there is a very large pressure on the work force that makes them not having enough time to help each child. So I want to repeat the question to the Council of State: what is really the need today? Then I must also make a comment on this with the municipal responsibility, because the Christian People's Party has even negotiated some earmarked positions since the red-green government went off, but none in 2019. Is there anything that has happened in 2019 that makes it no longer important?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e2062	We are concerned that the municipalities will take the responsibility they have. It is a great confidence that they are allowed to be the first line service in such an important area as that of child protection. For me, it is important to stress that in some municipalities it would be right to hire more people in child protection, in other municipalities it may be that there are other measures that are better to do better for the kids and families who need help. Therefore, we have been concerned that we want to strengthen the municipalities, enable them to do so in the best possible way, but also to make clear demands and expectations. As I said in my main response, we want to take many steps to strengthen that ownership, make demands on, for example. annual rounds in which the local government itself has to assess the offer. When it comes to the need, the municipalities know best, and I know that the need is very different from the municipality to the municipality. But I can promise the representative that I am very busy following this field and developments in the field, and then every year and every budget will show what we want to do from national teams.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e2069	So the ordinary question time is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-13.ana.ud537e2083	There is no record available. So the map is ready for today. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
