ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e83	The representatives Tore Hagebakken and Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. The previously temporarily exempted alternate of Finnmark, Steinar Karlstrøm, resumes its seat. The called alternates for West Agder, Odd Omland, and for Nordland, Kjell-Idar Juvik, now take their seats. An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Advance Party Group to the representative of Hanne Dyveke Süttar from 3 December onwards and until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative of Nordland, Grethe Andersen, is called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e124	Grethe Andersen is present and will take the seat. State Council Siv Jensen exceeded 1 kg. proposition [[see Unit]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e133	The representative, Mr Knag Fylkesnes, will present two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e138	On behalf of the big business representatives Arne Nävra, Lars Haltbrecken and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on resilient tourist fishing, and on behalf of the big business representatives Mona Fagerås, Freddy André Øvstegård, Arne Nävra, Lars Haltbrecken and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on the distribution and introduction of tourist taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e143	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting continues, if necessary, beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e163	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e179	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e195	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e202	As usual, we have what is referred to as Document 1 for treatment once a year. I refer to the fact that a total of 227 audit reports have been submitted from state establishments. To say this first, the general idea is that most of it's on the caretaker. It is an important part of both this report and its consideration by the Committee. What I'm going to say in the following is the men's, that's where it's a men's. Significant errors have been identified in the accounts — once again from the Defence Agency, the Defence Research Institute, the Defence Ombudsman and, in addition, from the Public Health Fund and the Private Health Service Fund — where the accounts cannot be validated. We have found reason to note from an overall committee that there is a repetition that there are problems with the accounts of the Defense, and that it has happened over the years. In the case of specific reports we get, which have been largely linked to the defence, there is precisely reason in the Defense to follow further and strengthen the accounting procedures. There is a breach of administrative regulations in nine cases, and we also find reason to comment on that. What goes on is a breach of information security. It has been mentioned in the case of the Police and Lenads seat. It is very serious that sensitive information in that department is not secured well enough. The same goes for the Oil Directorate. In the case of labour market measures – I have to take this a little punctuated – it is noted that there are problems in getting a proper overview of the control of labour market measures. It has been a controversial policy area to privatise – that is, to let private operators go to provide services on labour market measures – and it is therefore serious that there is not enough reporting and follow-up on how the tenderers make the profits and how they practice the legislation related to making dividends. In the same department, there is criticism about the organisation of housing, which is important for people with disabilities. We find that there are different practices around the country, which means that people with high needs are treated differently. It has to be cleaned up. There is a joint remark from the Committee to the Minister for Finance, who is present in the Chamber. The weakness of the Riksrevision's cross-sectoral governance, i.e. issues involving many departments or underlying agencies, is that one hand should know what the other is doing, to say it in Norwegian. The recommendations of the National Audit Office and the Committee are that it must be the Ministry of Finance which is the coordinating body. Anyone who has been in government knows that you are not allowed to do anything in a department unless the Minister of Finance agrees. The Ministry of Finance is at the heart of the coordination of these actions. There are health and care-related comments and acquisitions, where the efficiency of resource use has not led to more efficiency but actually to increased costs. The provision of university and higher education provision is requested for better reporting to Stortinget, and we ask in particular that it be followed up in terms of production grants, reporting by the Food Safety Authority, the impact of money in the Marine Research Institute, the Air Safety Authority, etc. At all points, and I refer to the setting – because it is important that the departments here follow up within a regulatory framework that is largely followed, so that what does not work, works – and in all areas the attitude of the Committee is unanimous.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e223	SV and I will join us until the committee leader has already said so. I just thought briefly to take advantage of the opportunity to bring forward a couple-three things that we believe are particularly important. I would like to start by doing what the Committee also does, in particular highlighting the Ministry of Defence, which has been a repetition of the criticisms of the National Audit Office and the Committee regarding the management of underlying activities, among others. As the statement also states, the defence has not been able to refer this time to an account without comments and has received a modified opinion on the accounts for the third consecutive year. As an SV member of the Committee, I believe it is serious that this criticism has taken place over several years without having been resolved. Then I will refer to a few comments that we in our party also believe are important in the matter. The first is about the Riksrevision's criticism of the government's efforts against child poverty. It is an important matter for us, and it is a criticism that has come several times. A new strategy for the fight against child poverty is called for. The government has announced a cooperation strategy for children in low-income families during 2019, and here SV, like the rest of the opposition parties in the committee, shows that we expect that strategy to come immediately. Finally, I would like to highlight something that has received a lot of attention in the year we are about to leave behind. This concerns the monitoring of foodstuffs, in particular animal welfare and the monitoring of Norwegian agriculture during inspections. There SV has put a note in the statement where we join the criticism that comes from the Riksaudition, and which we believe confirms some of the challenges we have seen, among others. in the Focus Documentary on the Secrets of the Pig Industry, which came in the summer and made a big impression on many. That is why I would also like to point out that, in this setting, we are pointing a little towards the future – although we are basically pointing backwards in this committee – by pointing to a proposal by representatives from SV who have delivered what we believe, among other things. helps to follow up the recommendations made by the Riksrevision in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e232	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e249	This is probably an annual event where we're going to deal with the follow-up to administrative audits handled by Stortinget. This is an important matter, because we are dealing here with a lot of administrative audits, and it is important that the Riksrevision and the work afterwards through the Control Committee are actually followed up, that the recommendations we make to the various Councils are actually followed up. That is the report we are now considering. There are 14 audit reports that have been followed up. For eleven of them, the Riksrevision recommends – and we, in our connection with it – that they can be checked out. But there are three that need to be followed. The first of these is the National Audit Office’s investigation of internal control in the field of procurement in the State Road Administration. It is a matter which we have followed for a long time, and in which the Committee shares the Riksrevision's view that the matter must be followed further. Because despite the follow-up already from 2014 to 2015, the first time we dealt with that matter, the Swedish Road Administration says that only in 2021 can a better reporting basis be expected than is the case today. It is important to put in place in the field of procurement in an establishment that has so large acquisitions, so large investments, and which is an important call for tenders for many to do their job for the Road Administration. That is why it is important that it should be put in place, and we are pleased that the Riksrevision will follow that case further. Another case has its origins completely back in 2012 and 2013, it is the National Audit Office's investigation of the state's work on CO 2 management. This is also an issue that has been repeatedly discussed here in Stortinget, and it is an important issue because the United Nations Environment Panel has said that in the global climate challenge the world has, carbon capture and storage is an essential part of the solution to reduce global global climate emissions. Therefore, it is important that the Riksrevision follow up, it is important that we follow up, and it is important that the Ministry follow up. It is in the setting that we have noticed that ‘many of the work involved in ensuring good processes for CO 2 management is at a preparatory stage’. It is important that we move forward soon, and we agree that the Riksrevision must follow this matter further. The third case that the Riksrevision says they will follow up is the study of the conduct of studies in higher education. In that case, it can refer to several governments, I think we can say. Efforts have been made to streamline the implementation of training and to check quality. However, there is enough evidence that it is easier to refer to measures than to document the results. That is why, in this case too, we believe that it is important that the Riksrevision should follow the case further, and of course that the department should follow the case up, and that we should come back to it. So finally just a brief comment on the final administrative audits: I'm not going through each of them. It works as it should, in that way that when handling cases we have given our recommendations to the government, and that the National Audit Office can check that those recommendations have been followed up. That's good, that's how it has to work. I would like to point out that in most cases we only take note that the matter has been closed. In some cases — in the case of the ‘Riksrevision of the work of the Governing Boards to achieve the objective of organic farming’, the ‘Riksrevision’s study on resource use and quality of health care after the implementation of the interaction reform’, and the ‘Riksrevision study on aid for good governance and anti-corruption in selected co-operation countries’ — the Committee has unanimously chosen to say that we take note of the fact that the matter is closed. In the small shade, there is a small signal from the Committee that, despite the closure of the cases, the themes and areas dealt with under those points, themes that we nevertheless hope the Riksaudition will have attention in the future, even if the concrete issues and their follow-up are concluded.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e272	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e289	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e296	The national audit report we are now considering is a study of information on the results of education assistance. In recent years, aid for education has been a high priority area for Norwegian development policy, and considerable sums have been spent in the field. It is a unanimous committee that shares the Riksrevision's view that reliable and relevant information on the results is essential for the achievement of the objectives and performance requirements. It has been important to underline the government's obligation to provide the Stortinget with proper information on the results of Norwegian assistance. This applies both to the understanding of administrative costs and to what the means of assistance actually do. One of the main findings of the National Audit Office is that the assistance management is not doing enough to ensure reliable and relevant performance information in the field of education. The Committee states in its opinion that it is critical that the Riksrevision finds that the reporting of the results of Norwegian education assistance is unsound and unreliable and contains several examples of misleading information. It has also been reported in one case that children with disabilities have access to school, while the study shows that this is wrong and that the project did not have children with disabilities as a target group. The national audit also criticises that, in many cases, only the positive results are highlighted, while poor results with low targets are rarely mentioned. The Committee considers that it presupposes a more balanced reporting of both good and bad results by the government. Education for children with disabilities has been a highly priority area on the part of Stortinget, for which there has been cross-political agreement. But the Riksrevision report shows that this has only little been followed up in practice. For example, according to the Riksrevision, only 4 out of 21 projects that have used support for children with disabilities as a justification have been reported as children who actually receive schooling. Moreover, the performance frameworks of the other projects with children with disabilities as a central target group do not have indicators that enable us to know if the efforts actually contribute to a better provision of education. The Committee agrees with the Riksrevision's criticism that the priority of children with disabilities is not reflected in the implementation of the projects and in the reports. Another thing that is important to note is the Riksrevision's criticism of the lack of follow-up and results reporting for the use of 110 million. the REACH Fund, Results in Education for All Children, and Norway scores low on the International Transparency Index for Assistance. We assume that the government is taking the necessary steps to change the procedures. It is a unanimous committee that supports the recommendations of the National Audit Office and the Committee assumes that the government will follow up and monitor the reporting during the implementation phase of the projects and use the knowledge to take new decisions – and also that it will be set up to systematically teach the management of assistance from the projects and other actors who achieve good results and have good performance information, to ensure that performance information is available on disabled children, in line with Stortinget’s wish for more accurate reporting for this group, and to provide a more balanced reporting of Norwegian assistance results with information on both good and bad results. Finally, it is necessary to make more information on the results of the projects available to the public and to make administrative costs visible to beneficiaries. With that, I present the Committee's recommendation, which is that the matter be annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e317	I would like to thank the President-in-Office for his good cooperation. The right is in the unanimous position in this matter. Norway grants a lot of money for assistance every year, and that is a right priority. We who live in one of the richest countries in the world have both an obligation and a moral responsibility to give of our abundance to those countries that struggle with poverty and need. We live in the same world. The Riksrevision report states that in the period 2012–2017 it was granted nearly 200 billion. kr for assistance. That's a lot of money. It is therefore important to provide good information on aid allocation, good reporting, so that we can monitor the achievement of targets and what results come out of the funds. The Solberg government has from the start been busy investing in education in poor countries. In 2017, the government presented the report «Rising to the Challenge», which describes the results of the first years of the education campaign. The review of the National Audit Office shows that there is a strong focus on the results of education assistance. It is important to follow up the areas of improvement identified in the report on information on the achievement of the objectives and results of the assistance. The inclusion of disabled children is a central part of the Norwegian educational initiative. The national audit considers it critical that the Norwegian development policy priority of children with disabilities is not reflected in the implementation of the projects and in the reporting. Save Children and ADRA, which stands for the Adventist Development and Relief Agency, are among the few beneficiaries who report on disabled children in their four educational projects. According to information provided by one of the assistance organisations, it is a clear objective that people with disabilities are the main target group for the training effort. But in developing countries, attitudes have to be worked in parallel. In many of the assisted countries, disability is an enormous taboo and stigma. In household surveys, parents often do not count with children with disabilities. Still, there are so many places that someone is actually being hidden away. If you're not counted, you're not included in the statistics either. So the biggest barrier to the inclusion of disabled children in school is attitudes and discrimination. This takes time to change and is often also difficult to measure. Therefore, providing good information and measuring results for disabled persons is very demanding for beneficiaries. This challenge is actively working. The report refers to the extension of the cooperation agreement with Norad to Redd Barna, despite poor performance reporting. According to Redd Barna, this is somewhat misleading. The national audit refers to a combined reporting across education reports in 14 countries, combined in a general performance framework. There is no reference to weak country-by-country performance reporting. It's an important clarification, according to Redd Barna. The measures taken in each country are different. There are different methods of measuring literacy, and it is measured at different ages. Some places are measured in grade 2 and some places in grade 5. In the period 2015-2018, Redd Barna reached 975 000 children in the schools they supported. There are considerable variations in and between countries and between target groups, but overall the proportion of children with read tests increased from 15 pst. in 2015 to 32 pst. in 2018, and that is quite good. In conclusion, it is important to have a holistic and long-term perspective when it comes to aid for education in developing countries. Of course, regular reporting of results related to the aid crowns we provide is important, but we also need to be realistic about what learning outcomes we can expect in the short term. Assistance organisations work in the most challenging areas of the world, targeting those people who have the most difficulty. Often the basis is so small that it takes time to achieve results. It is particularly challenging with regard to the most vulnerable people, the poorest, people with disabilities, girls or others who are discriminated against. But it's these people we want to reach and help with our assistance, and I'm glad we have assistance organizations that are involved in this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e340	It is an important matter that we are dealing with today. The National Auditorate has done a solid job, it's important and necessary, and it's a report that I take very seriously. I would like to stress that the theme of the Riksrevision, which has been mentioned here, is the quality of the results data reported and how the administration assesses their use, and not whether the results of the training assistance are obtained. In the same way, we have a lot to point to when it comes to actual results, for example. Norad's report from 2017, Rising to the challenge, which shows results on the education page from 2013 to 2016. This can be seen, inter alia, from the point of view of: As an example, Norway contributed to the support of 3.1 million girls and boys for schooling each year during that period. So education is the key to achieving all the sustainability goals. Therefore, education is a key field of development policy. Not least through the Prime Minister’s commitment and from others in this room, Norway has also contributed to raising education on the international agenda. And we're going to keep doing that. At the same time, we are very concerned to ensure better information, documentation and follow-up to results achieved by our partners. The national audit report provides examples of weaknesses in performance information for some of the actions supported by Norway. That the report to the Storting of results contains examples of misleading information is something I take seriously. It's not going to happen. In Nepal’s example, the budget proposal misinterpreted the fact that disabled children had access to school through the project. However, we have ensured that these groups are included in the project in a new phase, and of course also in the performance framework. The ongoing reform of the aid and grant management aims to improve the quality of just management, increase efficiency and strengthen the interaction between Norway’s significant multilateral development effort and efforts at country level. I believe that the reform will make us better able to meet the challenges that the Riksaudition correctly points to. Furthermore, we are developing a performance portal with a view to launching the first half of 2020. This will also introduce a systematic evaluation of performance reports before publication of progress and results. It will strengthen information externally and provide a better basis for analysis, summary and learning across projects within the management. In 2018, we introduced a new statistical marker for projects that contribute to strengthening the rights of people with disabilities and inclusion. It allows us to capture results from them in a more systematic way. An increasing number of schemes are available on the Grant Portal, which is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Norad's application portal for grants. The grant portal is now being developed to ensure thorough and systematic collection and evaluation of results. At the same time, we strengthen training in performance monitoring and evaluation in our internal course. I also notice that the Riksrevision believes that the results reporting is more relevant and reliable in newer projects than in older ones. That shows that we're on the right track. I note the criticism of the National Audit Office regarding Norway's support for the fund now mentioned, REACH – Results in Education for All Children. Norway took the initiative in setting up REACH because more evaluation and testing of results-based funding were needed. It was to ensure that such funding provides the right incentive and leads to the desired result. As mentioned in the Report. St. 25 for 2013–2014, Education for Development, it was known that such methodological developments were risky. Yes, there have unfortunately been delays, but a comprehensive report from the Learning from What Works project, which was published now in 2019, is a useful contribution to strengthening the multilateral educational effort. Some of the most vulnerable are government priorities, and the government has proposed a significant increase in the proportion of assistance that goes to people with disabilities, including 60 million. KR earmarked education. I share the National Audit Office's wish for increased attention to that group of children in education and will come back with a statement of status, as requested by the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e363	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e380	At the request of the Finance Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, there will be a reply to replies from members of the government, and those who have to subscribe to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e387	I would first like to thank representatives from SV for promoting this proposal on fair taxation of international companies, i.e. companies that today legally avoid paying taxes to the community. The topic has been debated several times in this room. This time, we've been able to get a little more agreement on the problem description committee, but the parties in the committee disagree on how to solve the problem. The opposition has therefore promoted eleven proposals to contribute to Norwegian initiatives for a fairer taxation of international companies and the first seven proposals are promoted by an overall opposition. The crux of the conflict is whether we should only wait for internationally negotiated solutions or do as many other countries have done: do something in our own tax laws while we wait. Most of them support international negotiations and agree that the best way to tax cross-border business models is cross-border tax rules. But that's also easier said than done. We in the Greens do not think we can afford to sit and wait for international consensus. Tax planning of this kind has a major impact on confidence in democracies and incomes for democracies, and unfortunately it also leads to uneven competition. It may take a long time to achieve a common solution for the OECD countries, if we do it at all, including. because the interests between OECD countries are very different. It's not just the largest companies that have figured out how to avoid taxes. Most recently, wind power investors, which draws profits out of Norway by setting a high interest rate on internal loans that they give themselves. This is a well-known method of transferring profits to low tax countries such as Ireland and the Cayman Islands. In Norway, we have a long tradition of ensuring that part of the gains from our natural resources benefit the community. Taxes on hydropower have provided the municipalities with income from local resources while at the same time compensating for nature to be brought into contact. That is why many people react a little more now when it turns out that the money from wind power generation is going straight out of the country. Even the Progress Party has been provoked by this. [[...]] ‘A out-of-control cowboy industry’, the representative Saudland has called the industry. It is interesting that the government parties are also indignant, because it is the government itself, and the finance minister of the Progress Party, who for years has been putting forward proposals that would have prevented such profits. Source taxes on interest and royalties would have helped solve this problem. The government has several times promised to promote a bill to the Stortinget about it, but it has not been followed up so far. The Council of State would like to know why this has not happened. We are hoped that the new signals will mean that we will receive increased support for the proposal that is being promoted in the Stortinget today that the government will come to the Stortinget with a proposal to introduce withholding taxes on interest and royalties, during the spring. I would also like to refer to proposal No. 1-8, on which the Greens are members.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e408	The representative of Une Bastholm has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e413	For the Workers' Party, it is important that the tax system has great confidence in the population and that one experiences it fairly. Then, too, international companies must contribute, and tax evasion and excess migration must be combative. We all believe that the taxation of multinational companies requires international solutions, but where the government party is very pleased with the status quo and will not be a driver, we stand in the opposition and point to several areas where national measures should come in line with international unity. The working party has noted the good work being done in the OECD and that the objective of non-binding solutions in 2020 is firm, but with the provision of consensus in all cases, and that this will also be implemented in all countries, this will take time. It is also not certain that the measures to be taken are entirely adequate. Several other countries already have national rules, such as the United Kingdom and the United Kingdom. France, the United Kingdom, Spain and Italy, and Germany and Denmark are working to establish national rules. So there won't be an entrance from Norway's side. National tax penalties do not have to be a competitive disadvantage for Norwegian businesses. It may also be beneficial to stop or dampen distortions of competition. For this reason, an overall opposition is advisable – pending an international framework – to resolve the issue of fairer taxes that also concern international companies. Then Norway can quickly adapt to international unity when it comes. The introduction of source taxes on royalty and interest rates is an example of a national measure that should have been well implemented before the revised budget of 2020, but then the government must also renegotiate tax agreements where exemptions for source taxes on royalty and interest are provided. This work may start immediately, no reason to wait. Another good suggestion from the opposition, as well as the extension of country-by-country reporting, is the reverse credit deduction. Finally, a heart attack: I would like the government to stop flying for pensioners and check out the naturalizations down to the smallest krone for ordinary people and use that energy to get international companies to pay their share of the tax on profits earned here in the country. I hereby accept the proposal from the Labour Party and the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e430	The representative Ingrid Heggø has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e435	There is broad political consensus in Norway about the importance of having a tax system that ensures that international companies are taxed and that reduces the possibility of tax adjustments such as profit movements and double taxation. The government has implemented a number of measures to counteract tax adaptations that erode the tax base. Limitations on the rule of interest and on the concept of resident and the introduction of country-to-country reporting to the tax authorities of multinational corporations are examples of such measures. There are also restrictions on the taxation of dividends from non-resident companies. Nevertheless, digital reality continues to challenge the international rules for the taxation of multinational companies. When values are increasingly intangible, digital and cross-border, a 100-year-old international framework for corporate taxation based on physical presence is no longer sufficient to ensure a fair distribution of taxation rights. Increased use of cryptocurrency and blocking technologies also challenges the competence to determine the real economic values of companies, transactions and profits. Norway is a driving force in OECD work on developing new common tax rules that can meet these challenges. Therefore, it was important to extend the examination of this case after the OECD presented early in October a proposal for a new global tax regime — a outline of an international solution for taxing the digitised economy concentrated on consumer-oriented businesses. This will mean that all countries will have the right to tax a certain proportion of the value added in the country, so that high-profit, consumer-oriented multinationals, including digital companies, will have to pay taxes in the countries in which they operate. As a result, the possibility of moving profits to avoid taxing will be removed. According to the OECD outline, the exemption will be based on the extraction of natural resources, for example for Norway. oil and gas, which are still to be taxed where they are extracted, not at the end of the value chain – a significant exception that is of major importance to the Norwegian economy. Taxation of cross-border digital activities is an international challenge that needs to be addressed through international cooperation and the design of mutually binding agreements. Norway will continue to contribute actively here, and the latest OECD proposals show that we are a long way ahead. If the proposals are given the necessary clarification of the principle at the G20 meeting in January, it will be possible to go further with the detailed design, setting of thresholds and rates applicable to different cases. The objective is a consensus-based, stable and long-term international tax solution that eliminates the need for individual countries to introduce their own measures to ensure tax revenue. One-sided measures could affect Norwegian business, a consequence we now see France marks from the United States, and such developments we are not willing to contribute to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e452	It is in our common interest that we find effective measures against tax evasion and profit movements, so that we ensure that international companies pay the tax they have to pay. We know that every year there are billions of dollars locked into tax havens, and that new business models and complex corporate structures challenge our ability to fund good services. This is a major global problem, and we cannot be naive about how this affects our ability to finance the major Community tasks here, too, in Norway. The fact that companies pay the tax they are going to pay is essential for us to be able to provide good services close to people. It's about securing funding for the big welfare tasks in the future, whether it's about getting health care if you get sick, or about having a readiness that people can trust in in a crisis situation. This is also about trusting that the tax system works fairly. It cannot be that ordinary workers pay taxes on their hard-earned wages, while multinational companies make large profits without adding money to the community. It is also about no one getting any competitive advantage because they do not pay taxes. The tax system must contribute to fair competition between Norwegian and foreign companies. It is a fundamental principle that value creation in Norway should be taxed in Norway. The central party considers that there is a need for tightening the country-by-country reporting legislation and proposes this. At the same time, it is important that we remember that business is diverse. We need to ensure that the rules we introduce take account of Norwegian jobs and the competitiveness of Norwegian companies and avoid unnecessary red tape. If we do not take this into account, we risk imposing unnecessary burdens on small and medium-sized enterprises. I'll bring this up with the proposal of the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e463	The representative, Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum, has taken up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e468	The world is losing hundreds of billions of dollars in the absence of tax revenues from multinational companies every year. Tax is civilization. It's financing our common well-being, like health care and school, and common infrastructure, like roads, water and sewerage. But we have a tax system today that is not adapted to today's economy, business models and corporate structure. Annually, Norway misses about 10 to 15 billion. kr in lost tax income. That's a lot. In addition to being a big problem for the welfare state, the super-rich become even richer, for many of the money that super-rich ones hide away, comes from the big profits they're left with as owners or shareholders of companies that plan to get as much tax as possible. This is also how the economic differences increase. In the future, the need for increased income and redistribution will increase in Norway. We have the climate crisis, increasing inequality and falling oil revenues. Then we have to clear up the tax system. Internationally, several countries go ahead and introduce national rules, many of which have been discussed in the past. Then it is high time that the government and the bulk of the population here recognize that the international tracks take too long. Illustrative is also the proposal that came from the OECD in October. The OECD itself calls the expected effects a message. Tax Justice Network Norway estimates that only 5 pst. the current tax haven will be redeployed with this proposal, which is before 134 countries have joined it. Nevertheless, the government is pushing the processes of the OECD into the argument why national measures are now impossible. The proposals in this setting do not go very far. I am very pleased that the opposition can stand together about them, but it should have been possible to get a majority behind them. The government itself has said that they will introduce withholding taxes on interest and royalty to counteract profit movements, but the dates proposed for consultation proposals and legislative proposals have been pushed on and off. Then I have to admit that my trust in the government in this area is getting a little small. We are also proposing to renegotiate tax agreements to ensure that withholding taxes on interest and royalties can be imposed on all countries. If the government is serious, it must also be part of the announced implementation. Also, in openness, the government is pulling its feet. The proposal to close the gaps in country-by-country reporting and the requirement of transparency for companies participating in public procurement processes, we know that we will fight tax evasion, and that is by no means unreasonable changes, but I also think that the government parties are making few and bad arguments here.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e481	The government will have a better taxing of multinational companies. International problems require international solutions and we actively contribute to international tax cooperation on tax challenges in the digitised economy. International efforts to find global solutions for more effective and fair taxation of digital multinationals are managed by the Inclusive Framework, a cooperative body with more than 130 member countries set up to follow up the BEPS project. We now see progress in international work. In October and November, the OECD Secretariat sent out two proposals for changes to the taxation of multinational companies. Proposals are intended to increase the right of taxation of part of the income of large multinational companies by the market country and to ensure, in addition, the minimum taxation of multinational companies. The proposals form the basis for the further work of the Inclusive Frameworks on a report containing final actions to be submitted in 2020. Norway participates in this work, and we also participate in several working groups investigating different aspects of the proposals. International cooperation benefits. A good example of this is the work on information exchange. Tax authorities today receive much more information from foreign tax authorities than just a few years ago. The availability of information is a fundamental prerequisite for proper taxation and a necessary prerequisite for counteracting undesirable tax adaptation. When the Nordic countries joined forces to negotiate information exchange agreements with central low-tax jurisdictions in 2007, these developments were totally unimaginable. It shows that major changes can be made through targeted international work. As previously announced, the government will very soon send a proposal on withholding tax on interest and royalty at the hearing. So I would like to point out that today's news that the US is now assessing sanctions against the French tax on digital services is an example of the unfortunate consequences of unilateral measures. The best thing we can do is find agreed measures. We will also avoid a spiral of unilateral measures and countermeasures that will weaken international trade, investment and thus economic growth. The work currently under way in the Inclusive Framework is moving forward, and then we can avoid this kind of situation. I was in Paris last week for another big meeting under the auspices of the OECD, and I must say I left there quite optimistically. My impression is that there is considerable progress and that there is reason to hope that this will find a solution quite quickly during 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e499	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e504	I thank you for the Minister of Finance's contributions. It is clear that there is a need for an international solution. The problem is that it takes a very long time, and at least it takes time to come up with a solution that will have an effect. That's what's worried about what's on the OECD table now — how incredibly limited it will actually have, and how long it's taken to get there. I note that the Minister of Finance is now drawing up the threat of criminal tariffs from the United States, but the greater the reason why the European countries stand together and join forces. Now the track is national action, that is what is happening in Europe and in the EU, and then I am surprised that the resistance of the government is so great, even against at all, finding out the consequences of the national measures implemented in countries around us, and whether we could have implemented similar or similar national measures here at home – which are proposed here, and which the government does not want.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e511	I have said earlier in similar debates in Stortinget that the government will of course assess national measures if a sufficient international agreement is not put in place. I think we have to do that if we were to get there. But that's not the preferred or ideal solution. Yes, this work has taken time, but 2020 is next year. There is every reason to believe that an agreement could be put in place, which will include a significant number of countries. I agree that there will be an advantage for the European countries to be united in this, but it may not be right for a very large number of countries to be ready to put national solutions on the table. There's a lot of people who resist it, and there's a lot of people who see you getting an international solution, because this is an international problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e520	But are we going to understand that if the OECD agrees on what's on the table right now, the Minister of Finance will be satisfied? Because when the OECD itself calls the effect of that package limited and Tax Justice Network Norway estimates that there are about 5 pst. of the profit shift you get done with, I would say it's very close enough. So when is the limit reached – for Norway and for the government – in order for us to have to assess national measures at all? And then I just want to hang around there: is it still such that the Minister of Finance intends to send a consultation note on withholding tax on interest and royalty during 2019, i.e. during the coming weeks?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e525	To the last one, I said in my post that it is almost imminent to send out this consultation proposal. That means that we can implement a solution to this in 2020. Do I want to be satisfied? Yes, it remains to be seen. I think we agree, across the vast majority of parties in this room, that we need to find good solutions on how to tax these big companies. But it will be an important and long step in the right direction at the moment it becomes a consensus that many countries can join. It will also put a much greater pressure on other countries to participate in it. Then we have to consider whether it is perceived as sufficient with our eyes. However, it is also important to stress that many small countries have greater resistance to this than Norway has in this work. Because we see the value of participating in it because we're a small, open economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e532	I thought I'd come back a little bit to withholding taxes on interest and royalty, because it's not a new issue. It's really something the Stortinget has wanted – that's my impression – since the NOU in 2014, and there's been a expectation that the government will make a proposal for such a source tax, because the Stortinget depends on the government making a proposal that we can decide on. It is uplifting that the Minister of Finance is now repeating that this is imminent, I am pleased. The majority has been promised a hearing note in 2019, which is why we do, but if the hearing note comes in January, we are probably happy with it too. I just wonder: why does the Minister of Finance not then go out more clearly now when there is such a big debate about the power companies that are able to avoid tax by moving the profits, and make it clear to the public that now we are going to introduce a tax on this kind of internal interest one gives itself by moving profits?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e537	Once again, it is absolutely right, it is imminent that we send out a consultation proposal related to the withholding tax on interest and royalty. I know there's expectations about it in this room, and it's almost imminent. We all agree that tax evasion and tax evasion are unfortunate and that profit movements are similarly unfortunate. But I think I should be able to assure the representative of Bastholm that getting attention on part of this work is not always as easy. Last week when I was in Paris, I tried to get interested in this in Norwegian media, because I know that the Storting is concerned about the work being done in the Inclusive Framework under the auspices of the OECD. It was not possible to get anyone to be interested in this, despite the fact that this is a matter that captures considerable attention in Norway, in many NGOs and not least in the United Kingdom.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e544	I fully agree with the problem that this is an incredibly important theme for democracies in the world – tax evasion, tax planning and also the problem that this is legal. But then I'm going to challenge the Council of States to use the possibilities that exist to tell us what are the possibilities of democracy. It is now – in the case of the wind power debate where attention is high – to go out and say that this is coming into place. I think it'll increase confidence in the Storting, in the government and in the politicians, and I think that's very important in such kinds of things that have to do with multinational companies that come and take advantage of Norwegian natural resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e549	I take note of that call.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e554	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e573	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e580	In the light of the Stortinget’s decision of 9 May 2017, cf. Document 8:33 S for 2016-2017 and Innst. 269 S for 2016–2017, der Stortinget inter alia asks the government to submit proposals to amend the Civil Code so that the revocation of citizenship under the second paragraph of Section 26 of the Civil Code is made by judgment, the government has made this proposition. Then it is that, after a health assessment, the government does not propose to amend the Civil Code so that the second paragraph of Section 26 of the Civil Code is revoked at first instance. Instead, the Government proposes to continue and strengthen the current regime of administrative procedures for the revocation of citizenship under the second paragraph of Section 26 and to strengthen the legal certainty of the current system, by introducing free legal assistance in the form of free judicial advice without any need-to-be review in the management process and compulsory examination of the subject with a personal appearance in the Foreign Study. This is supported by a multiple of them here on Stortinget, and that's why. The Ministry points out in its proposal that the proposal for a court hearing at first instance has been met with strong principleal resistance from the central actors in the justice sector. It is demonstrated that a review of the revocation cases in the Court of First Instance will be rocked by the principle of the distribution of power, which ensures that state power is shared between legislative, executive and judicial authorities. To impose administrative tasks on the courts would violate this principle and contribute to weakening trust in the courts. Court proceedings at first instance will further increase the length of proceedings for this type of case. The higher costs of court proceedings at first instance compared to today’s system are also significant. Furthermore, the Ministry notes that there are serious arguments against the option of first instance court proceedings, both in principle, in practice and in economic terms. The Ministry points out that the control exercised by the courts over administrative decisions in accordance with the principle of power allocation is intended as a guarantee of legal certainty for citizens. By transferring part of the administrative tasks to the courts, this supervisory authority will be removed and the guarantee of legal certainty will thus be weakened. The Ministry also considers that the legitimacy of the courts will be weakened if the courts are to take action at first instance rather than control the decisions of the administration. In accordance with the principle of power-sharing, it is the task of the courts to conduct legality checks and not to administer them. The Ministry further proposes to soften the current practice of granting free movement of goods under the Law of 13 June 1980 No. 35, i.e. Legal Aid Act, Section 16, third paragraph, by amending the circular on free legal aid. The Ministry also proposes changes to Section 26 of the Civil Code, which states that as a general rule the citizenship of children should not be revoked because of mistakes made by parents or grandparents. The Ministry also proposes to legislate that Norwegian citizenship should not be revoked if, in view of the seriousness of the situation and the connection of the citizen to the state, it would be a disproportionate interference with the individual or the immediate family members. Then there is a great deal to be done to ensure that withdrawals of Norwegian citizenship are seen as disproportionate in matters where citizenship is based on incorrect information. There is a single committee which indicates that the proportionality assessment should take place within the framework of the Constitution § 102 and the EMK Article 8 and the best of the child.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e614	This legislative proposal, which has been examined by the Municipal Committee in the autumn, is a follow-up to several requests decisions from the previous programming period. These request decisions are decisions of the Left and Christian People's Party and promoted in the Committee at that time, where the majority proposed to amend the Civil Code so that the withdrawal of citizenship under the second paragraph of Section 26 of the Civil Code is to take place by judgment. This Decision has not been followed up by the Government. Government-Left and Government-KrF have now turned their backs on the principle of whether the loss of citizenship is to be decided by a court or whether administrative decisions are to be taken. The Right and Advance Party, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, are promoting a different proposal than the Left and Christian People's Party asked the government to do in 2017. When the Right and Advance Party want the job as an actor, jury and judge, we believe that the Stortinget should say no. During the period 2016-2018, a majority in Stortinget did not wish to grant such powers. Now the Christian People's Party and the Left have negotiated away this majority. On that occasion, the members of the Workers’ Party, the Christian People’s Party, the Central Party, the Left and the Socialist Left considered the objections that a transfer of the relevant decision-making authority in the courts would imply a shift in the distribution of power in Norway, and the majority of the country that the withdrawal of citizenship is a very invasive measure, and that the courts should therefore have decision-making power in those cases. It was emphasised that there is an independent point that such intervention should not be subject to policies and changing governments. Moreover, whether the decision-making authority is to be placed before the courts or the administration in such cases is a political choice, and the majority indicated that it is in other areas of law involving intervention that the courts take decisions on the basis of administrative provisions, such as: in cases of detention under the Foreign Affairs Act, where the courts are also the first instance. Judicial States do not fall into one piece. Those that fall are bit by bit. Taking administrative decisions on the loss of citizenship is such a piece. What the government parties propose is to make our state of law smaller. They obviously don't see the irony in that they're building down what they say they're building up. The size must be more principleal and long-term in its assessment of this matter than the government turns out to be. The Labour Party does not agree that it is the administration of the government that is required to take decisions on the loss of citizenship — it is too intrusive. Citizenship has entered the heart of the nation-state. On Sunday 8 May 1814, the Eigensvollsmen discussed who would decide if anyone could become a Norwegian citizen. This was one of the things that put the mind most in the kitchen, and one of the few things that were discussed in the newspapers. What was strongly affected then is that citizenship is a visible proof of who you are, and where you belong, a sign that you have rights managed in this Chamber: the right to vote in elections, to go in and out of the kingdom. Depriving someone from citizenship is very profound, and it is an act that we are only going to carry out where it is absolutely necessary and right. The Court of Justice is the instrument of the rule of law. The Labour Party has been accused in the past of running terrorists' cases when we call about the principles and institutions of the rule of law. In this room the heads must be cool and the words carefully weighed. Our decisions are not suffrages, they are the laws of the country. With this, I address the proposal behind the Labour Party, and I would like to inform you that we will vote in a subsidiary way for the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e637	The representative Siri Gassemyr Staalese has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e642	The background to this case is three petition decisions back in 2017, which dealt with free legal aid and judicial review of revocation cases and that children and grandchildren should not be able to lose their citizenship due to errors committed by their parents. The Progress Party believes that the Stortinget should not now have to deal with the matter. It was an irresponsible decision that was made at the time, and the detailed procedure that the case has now received also shows that it is correct. Unfortunately, there is a high degree of fraud in foreign affairs, and it is very important that we have an administration that is quick and effective and knocks down on foreign affairs when it is discovered. If we were to go to court, it has been established through both the hearing and the thorough investigation that we have now been through, that it would hardly lead to better legal certainty. It would lead to longer treatment times, and it would be terribly costly. In that way, we had not managed to cheat on foreign affairs in the way you have to do to hang out with them. It is also the case that court proceedings in the first instance in such cases would have been to break the principle of power distribution. I have to say that I react to the Workers' Party's statements in this matter. They claim to break down the rule of law by not bringing legal proceedings in civil matters. It's directly wrong. If you had even had a situation today where there was a trial of something, and you should go back on it, I could well understand the argument. But here you do not break down any rule of law by continuing to leave the exercising power to be the executive and the dominating power to be the dominating power. It is simply the opposite that would happen if we had gone into this matter. Legal certainty is important in these matters. I think we all agree on that. That is why the Progress Party is also helping to strengthen legal certainty for those who need it. Therefore, it is good that we get free legal aid for those who need it most, and it is also good that the child's situation is taken extra into account. But a rule without exception where children could not lose their citizenship due to errors committed by their parents would be wrong. Now we're applying a practice that really means that if you could lose your residence permit, you could also lose your citizenship. It is the same assessment of ownership that must be based on, and it seems that the Progress Party is a reasonable solution to this matter. For us it has been important to operate with the limitation of damage as a result of the irresponsible decision that was once taken, and I find it strange that the Workers' Party is not able to turn into a case as it so clearly turns out that initially it was wrong when it was adopted. In that case, we have at least some other parties who take over the thorough process and the answers to the hearing – the overwhelming majority who believe that going to court here would be wrong – and who listen to that expertise and competence and turn around and advocate a sensible decision and leave the principle of power distribution in Norway standing, because that is a very important principle.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e659	Citizenship is a legal link between a person and a country. Losing such an important right as citizenship is very invasive. Therefore, the Centre Party believes that it is important to have free legal assistance in handling cases in both administration and justice. This will lead to enhanced legal certainty for those involved. In the hearing, public authorities in the field of justice, including the Supreme Court, the Court of Justice and the Oslo District Court, strongly opposed the fact that the courts should be the first instance in cases of revocation of citizenship. Instead, they support the proposal to strengthen legal certainty in the current system. The centre party chooses to listen to their recommendations. A very central part of this is that in matters of citizenship, there should be appeals on the same footing as all other cases. In the opinion of the Centre Party, the main amendment to this proposal is the amendment to Section 26, which states that, as a general rule, the citizenship of children cannot be revoked because of errors committed by parents or grandparents. This change clears up the obvious unfairness that citizens who have lived all their lives in Norway, become adults and formed their own family, may be expelled because of the wrongs of their parents and who have not known themselves. It is an important principle not to be punished because of injustice committed by others. Then it is quite right that we are now removing this inherited sin in matters of revocation of citizenship. The centre party also considers it important that the sibling be treated equally as a general rule. Why this is not a general rule today, is hard to understand. As of today, the non-resident authorities have no time-limits for the handling of revocation cases. That's what the Center Party thinks is unfortunate, and it's a shame the government doesn't want to do anything about it. Many who have received notice of withdrawal of citizenship have waited many years for clarification. We even hear stories about people who have been granted a family start-up with a spouse from their home country and have had more children while the case was being treated – then in the belief that the case of recalls had ended, as they had been approved for family start-up. So long waiting times and unclear management signals are no good. It is unsustainable, and we are therefore promoting, together with SV, proposals to investigate the introduction of a period of time between the sending of advance notice of withdrawal of citizenship until the matter has been resolved by the foreign authorities at first instance. When the foreign authorities send a notice of withdrawal, it must be expected that the case has already been assessed on the basis of the information which causes the case to be raised. The proceedings must then be initiated before the person concerned is informed of the establishment of a case of withdrawal of citizenship. Therefore, a time limit for proceedings should not prevent a thorough investigation or the legal certainty of the individual. A trial period of many years is an unacceptable situation to put people in. When cases of revocation are initiated, we must also expect the proceedings to be carried out within a reasonable time. Finally, I would like to point out that the United Nations has pointed out that Norway lacks a definition of statelessness in national law. The central party notices that the government is considering setting up a definition of statelessness in Norwegian law, and we expect this to be followed up quickly. I am promoting the proposal No. 2 and 3 from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e672	The representative Heidi Greni has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e677	I'll take up the SV's suggestions quickly. SV was the initiator of a system of judicial handling of citizenship cases. The representatives of the Workers' Party and the Center Party have been up here and explained how important citizenship is, so I don't have to repeat it. It's -- to say it like that -- the security of people's lives. What we're talking about now is acquired citizenship. I have noticed that the government has filed a case on the loss of citizenship as a punishment where you can't lose it if it's not a court case. To put it at the head, you might say that war criminals, and perhaps even some cheaters, are supposed to have greater legal certainty than those who make a mistake. There is a big difference between cheating and error, but I understand that the government does not see it. I have to say I am quite shocked that the Left and Christian People's Party has bowed down to the Advancement Party in this matter as well and obviously has not intended to take the floor in the matter either. There are many aspects of this matter that are being dealt with today, and some of them I will address. The first concerns the abolition of inherited sin. It is that you can be judged or deprived of rights because fathers, mothers, or grandparents have done something wrong. It's taking the good step for now. I'm glad you do, but that's not enough. The importance of children in such matters must be better taken care of than has been done by the government. The government sent out a proposal at the hearing that was better than the one being discussed today. For this reason, SV proposes to follow the premises that are otherwise given to long-term children, and not extend them any longer. Legal aid in such cases is also very important. What the government is now presenting is by no means good enough. Many of the people who want to get up in such a process are not people who have a lot of financial resources going on, and if you need an appeal and are going to get so little legal help – if at all – it's done so that you don't get anchors. I think you have to understand that losing citizenship is not a matter that you don't want to appeal. I think everyone would – because you need such security. We have also proposed that there should be a limitation period in these cases. For serious crimes in Norway, there is a limitation period; there are only a few crimes that do not. There are very good reasons why there is a limitation period in many cases, and that is especially because the evidence situation is difficult after very many years. There can be no reason – if you have made a mistake in such a process – that it should never be possible to set a line for it. That means that after very many years you can experience getting a government, like the one we now have, that will use a lot of resources to look for such things instead of being concerned with good integration and that people should be able to beat the roots and thrive in Norway – a government that will be busy looking for mistakes in old things to find a reason to throw some out of the country. It is good case-law and good administrative practice to have time-limits for both proceedings and when cases become obsolete. This does not happen in the procedure we have today. I have asked for the floor one more time to talk about statelessness, but what I have to say about is that someone believes that the principles of the rule of law are being rocked by whether there should be court proceedings. Here it is the practice of a law, and it does the justice all the time. I understand that parts of the legal system have said no to this, because they are congested. The government has systematically underfunded our entire legal system, and they obviously don't want any more cases, but it has nothing to do with the principle of power distribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e696	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e702	The Norwegian authorities rely on a correct explanation by those who want to live in Norway. The system is based largely on trust. A unanimous increase therefore adopted in 2005 a rule on the withdrawal of citizenship due to incorrect information. Withdrawal of citizenship requires both the law and the proceedings. The Government's proposal for amendments to the Civil Code respects the interests of legal certainty and proportionality in a good way and respects the rights of children. The Government proposes that the current regime for the management of revocation cases be continued and strengthened. The Government proposes that all appeals should be dealt with at the meeting of the Department of Foreign Affairs and that the person should be given the opportunity to explain himself. It is proposed to cover all costs incurred by a lawyer in administrative proceedings. Furthermore, it is proposed to open up the possibility for some more than today to have the need-to-be review of the administrative decision in the event of a subsequent judicial review. An important part of the background to the political debate that led up to the request decisions was a specific matter. One person who had declared to be from Somalia was, after the foreigners' assessment, actually from Djibouti. This matter led to a wide-ranging public debate. The Advocate-General has now brought this case to two courts, and the State has won the conclusion that the decision was valid both in Oslo District Court and in Borgarting Lawyers' Law. The appeal was dismissed in the Supreme Court. The examination of the case by two courts has shown that UDI and UNE dealt with the matter correctly. All public bodies in the field of justice expressed strong and fundamental opposition to the right of the courts to be the first instance in cases of revocation. These bodies consider that judicial proceedings in the first instance stem from the principle of the distribution of power, which is a guarantee to society that the legal certainty of the citizens is safeguarded. Such a number of hearing bodies point out that there is a guarantee of legal certainty in the special competence of UDI and UNE in the matter. By retaining the administrative revocation cases, each case may be subject to more than one review in several instances than if the task was added to the courts. Furthermore, if the Court of Justice is to be the first instance, the duration of proceedings will be very long. This matter is primarily about ensuring legal certainty. However, it is also about clarifying the cases in which withdrawal of citizenship is a necessary measure. This applies in particular to withdrawals from the citizenship of the child. We suggest that, as a general rule, the citizenship of children should not be revoked because of errors committed by parents or grandparents. This shall also apply to persons who have become eligible but who were under the age of 18 when they applied for or acquired Norwegian citizenship. A limited derogation from the general rule is proposed, which allows for recall where, following a concrete assessment, the child is not considered to have a strong connection with the rich. The citizenship of children shall not be subject to withdrawal if the child becomes stateless. We propose to legislate a proportionality assessment in the cases, where the issue should be whether the consequences of recalls are proportionate to the citizen's relationship with Norway on the one hand and the seriousness of the relationship on the other. There must be a reasonable relationship between the intervention and the burden on the person or his immediate family of recall. The best interests of the child shall be a fundamental consideration. Initially, I stressed that this bill respects legal certainty, proportionality and the rights of children. I consider this to be the main purposes of the work Stortinget asked us to do. I hope that my statement has shown that legal certainty is not just about court proceedings at first instance. We all agree that an independent court is an important guarantee of legal certainty in Norway. However, the role of the Court of Justice in this field is to review administrative decisions. The proposal we have put forward strengthens legal certainty within the system we already have. Furthermore, I hope that the review has shown that the most important thing we can do to assure us of reasonable decisions in these cases is to change the material content of the recall clause. We propose to legislate in which cases it is necessary to resort to the serious intervention of withdrawal of citizenship. We propose to legislate children's right not to be identified with their parents, but to be recognized as independent individuals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e738	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e743	In 2017, the Stortinget decided to amend the Civil Code so that revocations of citizenship under the second paragraph of Section 26 of the Civil Code shall be made by judgment. My question is simple: Why has the government not followed up the decision of the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e750	We put out two proposals for consultation. One proposal was in line with what was specifically proposed, namely the Court of First Instance. The second was to strengthen legal certainty, proportionality and the rights of children through enhanced examination at first instance. When I then get on the table such clear, primal statements from those responsible for ensuring the legal security of society, it was not so difficult to come back to the Stortinge and say that we are strengthening legal certainty, proportionality and children's rights with enhanced scrutiny, in line with the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e755	These hearing replies were well known when Stortinget took its decision in 2017. The size is waiting for the government to follow up a number of request decisions. Can we expect the government to ignore decisions taken in this Chamber with the justification ‘after an overall assessment’?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e762	There was no overall assessment here, there was a concrete assessment of the hearing replies we received on the basis of the proposal prepared by the Ministry of Knowledge. It is not that the hearing replies were known when Storting’s decision was made, as the representative says. The hearing replies became known after the matter had been heard. When we get back such concrete, fundamental references, I believe that it is my duty as the Council of State to inform the Storting about it and propose how we can take care of what is at the heart of this matter, namely legal certainty, proportionality and children's rights. So it's up to Stortingen to decide if you agree with what the government has proposed. I believe that we are following the Storting in a good way in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e769	The UN has pointed out that Norway does not have a definition of statelessness and has recommended that we include a definition of statelessness in national law and establish a procedure to determine whether persons are considered stateless under the UN Convention. If I understand the government correctly, it is considered to include a definition of statelessness, but not to introduce a procedure. Can the Council of State explain why it is important to get a definition, but not a procedure for determining statelessness, and when can we expect this to be implemented?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e774	It is true that the government will consider including a definition of statelessness in Norwegian law, but we will not consider introducing a procedure for determining statelessness. The reason for this is that, as a general rule, statelessness is not in itself a reason enough to obtain a residence permit in Norway, and we do not interpret it as an obligation under the 1954 agreement. However, residence may be granted subject to certain conditions, where there are practical obstacles to the return due to circumstances beyond the control of the person concerned. The point here is that statelessness is not in itself reasonable enough, but there is one of several elements that need to be assessed, and that's why we won't consider setting up a separate procedure for this. It is the Minister of Justice who is responsible for following up this case, and he will come back when the matter has been thoroughly assessed.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e781	One of the important principles we have for criminal proceedings is limitation periods. It's like that, for example. fraud under Section 371 of the Penal Code will expire after five years, serious fraud will expire after 10 years, and where the penalty framework is 21 years, there is a limitation period of 25 years. It is only the most serious crimes that do not have a limitation period. It is very difficult to understand the government’s argument that not even a deadline of – let me say – 25 years would be sufficient. How does the Minister for Integration think it should work if you are to have a citizenship revoked for a mistake you have made 25 years ago? Is it good integration policy to let people live in uncertainty for 25–50 years?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e788	Now the representative skips some of the key elements of this proposal, namely that we have placed greater emphasis on the proportionality assessment. This means that a concrete assessment of the seriousness of the case must be made against the person’s connection to the kingdom. That's what I mean. When we do not wish to accept a proposal for a limitation period, it is linked to the fact that there may be cases where the seriousness of the matter still suggests that there should be a withdrawal of citizenship, but then there should be a concrete assessment of the seriousness of the matter measured against the relationship with the State. I thought it was the most central thing in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e793	This is the case in criminal proceedings; the courts exercise proportionality assessments all the time relating to criminal proceedings on which there is a limitation period, so there is no reason not to be able to have a limitation period in these cases. It gives a signal that it seems that making a mistake in this context is much more serious than doing very serious criminal acts. You also have a trial in the courts regarding crimes against humanity and war crimes – then you have to get your case before the court, and you can't be made stateless in those procedures, but you can do that. I wonder how the Council of State can weigh this in a way – why is this more serious than a serious crime with 21 years of punishment?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e799	Now I'm not a judge. It is the Court of Justice which is to carry out the specific assessment. But I registered that the representative said that the reason the courts and the public prosecutors were against this was because they were overworked. There are strong fundamental reasons why there should be administrative decisions at first instance and judicial judgement at second instance. We believe that this is a good follow-up to the Storting decision. I acknowledge that it is possible to take a different view of both the limitation period and other things, but it is the fundamental questions I believe it is important to take a position on this matter today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e804	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e811	I just need to give a response to two things that the council said in the line change. One was that there was not an overall assessment on the basis. Thus, in the second section of the government’s proposal, the government ‘does not promote, after an overall assessment, proposals to amend the national law’. In addition, the Council of State also said that the hearing replies were not known. It is in itself right that the answers to this case had not been received in 2017, but we were aware that there was a discussion about whether the distribution of power was rocked by asking for court proceedings relating to the loss of citizenship. It was said at the time, from the Left Party, the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the SV and the Workers' Party, that withdrawal of citizenship was such an intervention that the courts should still have decision-making powers, despite objections.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e816	It is not the principle of power distribution that has landed this matter. It's politics and money and the fact that the Christian People's Party and the Left have gone into government and gone from what they've meant before. That's what the facts are in this case. The treatment of the waiver of citizenship in a courtroom is not a violation of any principle of power distribution. On the contrary, it is the courts which practice the laws adopted by the Stortinget. It's not very different than for other cases. I need to say a little bit about the proposal we have made on statelessness. It's because statelessness is a big problem in the world. It is a challenge for very many countries that there are many stateless people in the world. Norway has committed itself internationally to supporting the efforts of more people to be stateless and to work for more people to have citizenship. It is probably true that the EMK does not commit us to, for example: not to make people stateless by such processes that we are now discussing, i.e. the loss of citizenship by mistake. But it's very important that states work for what they say to work for. I've checked a little bit today among those who have such procedures and systems for it. In France, they have had 200 cases per year since 2010. It's perhaps the most liberal country, where this has been common for a long time. England, with 66.5 million people, has 1510 such applications from 2013 to 2015. It's not exactly very many, but it means an infinite amount to the stateless human being, to get a citizenship. There are many stateless people in the world. The Palestinians may be the group that many people know about. Rome people are, and quite a few other people are without a country that is responsible for them. I think we who sit here, we're going to be happy that we were born in a situation where we actually got a citizenship at birth – without doing so much for that sail other than being born. But someone is born without it, or they're taken from it by states. So Norway has undertaken to work for this, and therefore SV suggests that a definition of statelessness be given not only in the law, but also a separate procedure for determining state unemployment with statelessness as a basis for residence. It is the only right thing to do when, as a country, you have undertaken to work against statelessness — and so Norway and the government have done so.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e829	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e846	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions by members of the Government. Those who had to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e853	The proposers point out that in recent years many examples have become known of rules being made by working more than they should, and that there is less cultural exchange than it should be. It is also claimed that there are several examples of gross exploitation and very serious conditions. The proposers point out that society has a high responsibility to protect au pairs against danger and overstepping, and it is therefore proposed that the auair system be phased out. There will always be some people who regulate or behave in an unacceptable way. This is happening all over the world, in all matters, and has been happening for all time. The answer may not always be to forbid. Aupair is an opportunity for young people from all over the world to experience a completely different country without being rich. This is the youth's own choice and gives too many an experience for life. Our job is to have a good code. Norway has ratified the European Agreement on the recruitment of au pair and the winding-up of the auair system requires the termination of this Agreement. Any cancellation may also have an impact on Norway’s ability to send its own citizens as au pair to other European countries. The Committee held a written hearing on the matter without making any significant representations. A couple of good recordings were checked up, but what they were dealing with turned out to be within the scope of today's law and for that reason have not been followed up. The representative proposal also proposes to strengthen the au pairs' rights until the scheme is phased out. The AUPAR scheme’s intention of language training and cultural exchange through work and participation in a family considers the majority of the Committee to be good and is based on values that ensure that the scheme should continue to exist. The scheme is mutually beneficial both for host families and for young adults who travel either to or from Norway. Young people, including from poor countries, should be given the opportunity to come to Norway and learn about Norwegian culture and social conditions. In return, the au pair shall facilitate housework and assist with childcare. Therefore, the scheme does not have an employer and an employee. The majority of the Committee therefore does not wish to extend the scope of the Working Environment Act. Au pairs currently have the opportunity to live with a new host family and perform tasks under a new contract when a complete application for a residence permit for a new host family has been submitted. During the examination of the new application, the non-resident authorities shall carefully check all aspects of the case. Without such control, we would have a risk that the au pair would have to accept worse conditions than in the standard contract, that the au pair would not be formalised, that the host family would not have completed the required e-learning course, or that the au pair would come to a quarantined family. The Aupair Scheme was thoroughly evaluated by Fafo in 2009. Following the evaluation, the Ministry carried out a review of the whole scheme which led to several changes in legislation and practice. The Ministry of Justice and Defence will follow up on the practice and assess whether there are regulatory or practice conditions that should be changed in order to ensure further au pairs. The Ministry is working on the follow-up of two request decisions from the Stortinget to introduce permanent exclusion from the aupair system for host families using aupairs. In addition, the UDI has been asked to look at the information provided externally for the change of host family, in order to ensure that it is clear to all actors. To this end, it was also assessed whether there was a need to introduce changes in order to strengthen the au pair rights. Such a change has already been made. In Norway, we have set an upper age limit of 29 years for au pairen, which coincides with the upper age limit in the European Council Agreement. And an au pair can't have their own children. There are some minority suggestions in the vote, which I expect the respective parties to explain to themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e883	The Aupair system was introduced in 1969, and the intention was for young people to have real cultural exchanges and learn other cultures and languages. Many of the North also had the joy. But a lot has happened since 1969, and a lot has happened to the aupair system since it was introduced. The system is no longer like that when many Northmen traveled into the big world. It has been and is repeated abuse and exploitation of the scheme. There have been repeated reports of weaknesses in the scheme, and repeated actions have been implemented, including by the red-green government, to remedy them. The aupair centre of Norwegian People's Aid, which was laid down by the Right-Registration, is an example of that. The journal.no, belonging to OsloMet, published an article last year. There's a scientist on the journal's aupair system saying that home is a dangerous place. Each year, both the Directorate of Foreign Affairs and the au pairer information and guidance service, Caritas au pair centre, receive reports of abuse of the scheme. The head of the visa and auair unit of the UDI informs that UDI cannot verify that the contract is being complied with: ‘We have no control authority. We have around 100,000 applications for residence permits in Norway this year, so that would be quite demanding. So everything is trust-based in this system.» State Secretary Åland answers as follows: ‘However, we are aware of the claim that many fractures are never reported by the au pair, for fear that the ratio will have negative consequences for the au pair’s ability to continue to stay in Norway. [[...]] Furthermore, the article states: ‘Faithfully, there are au pairs out there that do not dare or know how to get out of poor conditions in the host homes,’ says Anne Nogva, Executive Director of Caritas Au Pair Centre.’ And on the other hand, ‘The Centre also receives dissatisfaction cases, where au pairs provide serious descriptions of their condition in the host family. It can run counter to conditions bordering on mental violence. That you're being treated in a degrading way and that you're afraid. Fear how one is talked to, or frightened to," says Nogva." Today is almost 90 pst. of those who become au pairs, of the Philippines. In 2018, 781 of the total were 887 people from the Philippines, and this has been the case in the last years. The Aupair Scheme is no longer a cultural exchange programme where you come to Norway to learn about Norwegian language and culture. There has been an arrangement for the most prosperous in Norway that wants to obtain cheap domestic help from abroad, where the power in the relationship lies with the individual family, and not with the often vulnerable woman from the Philippines. It's a system that's used over and over again. All lots in this room admit great weaknesses in the arrangement. There are some people who want to patch up the scheme, but the Labour Party says that enough is enough. It's no longer a system we can be familiar with. In some countries this is accepted with cheap domestic help from abroad where young women are exploited. In Norway, we should clearly say no to that. We have to abolish the aupair system, we cannot accept social dumping in Norway. That the Right Party and the Advance Party are engaged in maintaining a system that ensures the economic elite cheap domestic help from abroad, does not surprise me, but why the Center Party runs the errand of the West Front, is incomprehensible to me. The working party believes that the aupair system is over-ripe for scrapping, not reform. For a number of years, we have seen that wealthy people earn cheap labour from the Philippines under the cover of cultural exchanges. Now we have to call a spade a spade: the scheme is about the exploitation of poor women, finished talking. We have to abolish the system in Norway. I take up the proposal from the Workers' Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e923	The representative Masud Gharahkhani has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e928	Many families in Norway have good experience with the aupair system. For a number of years, this has been an arrangement for young Nordics, who can travel and experience other countries and languages, and for people from other countries, who can come to Norway to learn about Norwegian culture and languages. If the scheme is to be implemented, the rules must be strict – with the aim of safeguarding the au pairs and preventing abuse of the scheme. As long as the underlying rules and principles are followed, the scheme will benefit both host families and young adults who travel either to or from Norway to be au pair, have language practices and learn about new cultures. If we phase out the scheme, we will also remove the possibility for Norwegian youth to go on these premises. The centre party wishes to continue the aupair system, with clear assumptions that the rules should be complied with and that it should be severely reduced to abuse. Unfortunately, there are more cases of abuse, and the Centre Party believes that this has to be tackled more vigorously. We believe that those who do not follow the rules should lose the opportunity to be host family for au pairs. One of the proposals in the proposal for a representative is that the Working Environment Act should apply to au pairs. Such a change would imply that au pairs work in their host family – they should not. It shall be a cultural exchange programme, not a working relationship. In Norway, we have limited labour immigration, and the rules on labour immigration do not open up to allow residence to carry out domestic work. It is therefore not appropriate for the Centre Party to change the device of the aupair system to become a scheme for unskilled labour immigration. Simple child care tasks are common in most families with au pair, but there is no requirement in the rules today that there should be children in the family. The Party supports the proposal for the introduction of a requirement for minor children in the host family. The Stortinget asked in 2017 for the tightening of the aupair system. It was about the exclusion of host families that violates the conditions of the aupair system. The Council of State reports that there is work in this area in the department now. The centre party considers that the occasion should be used to establish clear rules to ensure the preservation of the au pairs. Follow-up to the decision of the Storting and more stringent forms of response to abuse are clearly prerequisites for the Centre Party to vote against winding up the scheme, and we expect this to be put into place quickly. I don't know any of those people who have au pair who will feel at home in the term 'the western fift'. The people I know are ordinary people who need supervision, picking up and bringing kids because they have a busy everyday life and feel the famous pastime. Both have unforeseeable working hours, shift arrangements or are under education, e.g. with a tour or shift work, and for them it is important to have someone who can pick up the kids in the nursery and take care of them until they come home. Those I know who have au pair, use this arrangement wisely. Au pairen has language teaching in the daytime and becomes part of the family, and we have to make sure that it is only the kind of arrangements that are in the future, and put down heavily on those who abuse this system, in addition to what the legislation allows.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e945	Does the representative wish to address the proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e950	That's what the representative wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e955	The representative, Heidi Greni, then mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e960	I then take up the suggestions from SV in the setting. It has to be phased out as it is now. It is rather naive not to see that there is an underpaid servitude that is now being taken into Norway. It's cheap labour, mostly to wealthy families. The representative, Greni, was up talking about the clip of time. Yeah, there's a lot of people in the time bracket. But if you don't have a big house, where you have the opportunity to have your own room for an au pair, you don't have the opportunity to solve it that way. Then one has gone away from what is the purpose of the scheme, namely a cultural exchange, and into what is domestic help. It's okay that people have domestic help, but then an employee gets people and pays them really. I have a sad feeling that many here take very easy on this. These are vulnerable people from countries where they do not have good prospects, and they need the money and are willing to find themselves in pretty bad conditions and get paid poorly. What makes it even more clear is that the government has removed the help center for au pairs. At that help center, there was legal competence that took care of the issues where there were serious issues, and told people, with the law in hand, and put the closet in place. This is absolutely necessary, because what these au pairs need more than a center they can go to to get some comfort is legal assistance – if it is to help anything in the most serious cases. We believe the system as it is today, should be terminated, and then you have to create a new system with some framework. There are some proposals, which we believe should also be put in place within the system that is in place today, because we see that the majority here will not be involved and remove the system. Also in this case I am very disappointed with the Christian People's Party and the Left, who do not see that this is a matter which calls for increased legal certainty for those concerned, and not for being so liberal with those who are in time and feel they need some domestic help. It's not a government task to make sure someone has domestic help. Among the main proposals we are making here is that the residence permit for the au pair must be linked to the au pair. Then I hear someone say that it would be difficult for the UDI if they were to approve a new host family. No, it will not be if you approve host families in advance, as it is done by the Atlantis organisation, which distributes au pairs from European countries to Norway and the other way. They do it – they approve it in advance. Today, the au pair has to pay a fee of NOK 5000. There is a terrible amount of money, and you have the uncertainty that if you tell me about serious issues that are a breach of the contract you have, you can risk being thrown out of the country. I don't understand that the majority here don't understand how unreasonable it is, when you're in such a vulnerable situation as what these au pairs are. The residence permit must be linked to the individual, so that the individual has the opportunity to change the host family. And if you approve them in advance and have a set of host families, it'll work. In that case, if a new fee is to be paid for a new residence permit, the fee should also be added to the broken host family, because it is completely unreasonable to have to pay a new fee because someone else has made a mistake. There is a gross unfairness in today's system. With regard to the proposal on the work environment law: yes, the reason is not that we believe this is a normal job. But where else would you find protection for the working conditions you are actually in? Au pairs carry out work in Norway, and I ask for answers from those who believe that this will not happen, on which they will then be protected from their working conditions. They don't get that today – it's a reality, and everyone has to realize it. We also believe that, in a new arrangement or today’s arrangement, it must be required that au pair be required to have minor children in the family. Then I'll ask for the word one more time to go through the next suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e990	The representative is welcome to do so. The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e997	Today, Stortinget confirms that there is still a majority in favour of continuing the aupair system. That's good. At the same time, I would like to stress the positive fact that the Stortinget is discussing the scheme. We must avoid abuse, and we must ensure the intention of the system, namely language training and cultural exchange through work and participation in a family. It is positive that young people from different countries are given the opportunity to come to Norway and learn about Norwegian culture and social conditions. At the same time, there are some clear dilemmas. We are aware that there is an abuse of the scheme and in some cases also serious abuse of au pairs. It's totally unacceptable. We therefore also consider measures to avoid abuse. The proposal for a representative proposes that the government should review the whole aupair system in order to ensure au pairs against exploitation and dangerous situations and come back to the Stortinge on a case-by-case basis. As I wrote to the Municipal and Administrative Committee in my letter of 27 June this year, I think it would be more appropriate to make a continuous assessment of the need for regulatory changes. The Ministry of Justice and Defence is now working to follow up two requests from the Stortinget to introduce permanent exclusion from the aupair system for host families using au pairs. A bill on this will be promoted for the Storting before Easter. As I wrote to Stortinget in my answer to written question No. 1747 for 2018 to 2019, the Ministry has also asked the UDI to look into the external information on the exchange of host families, in order to ensure that it is clear to all actors and to assess the need for regulatory adjustment. UDI has met with several actors in the field during the autumn, where they have informed about the legislation and the scheme. We have also assessed whether there is a need to introduce changes in order to strengthen the rights of au pairs in the exchange of families, as proposed in point 5 of the draft representative. In the event of a change of host family, au pairs may be placed in a vulnerable situation as a result of being able to move in and perform duties with the new host family after having been given an hour to the police to submit a complete application for a new residence permit. This may take time, and in the meantime an au pair who no longer wants or gets to live with the former host family will be in an uncertain situation in the case of housing, and she or he will not receive any allowance. I have therefore amended the foreign regulation with effect from 1 January 2020, so that au pairs can move in and carry out tasks with the new host family from the time the person registers the application for a new online residence permit and orders an hour with the police. As this can be done on the day of any computer, the au pair will no longer have to wait for the foreign administration before the person can change the host family. I believe this will solve the vast majority of the problems we have today regarding the exchange of the host family.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e1014	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e1019	In some countries — Norway is not an exception either — there are some forces that seem to be good enough to provide access to cheap foreign labour, which also leads to social dumping. Unfortunately, we know that this is also the case with the aupair system – that it can be exploited. Then my question to the Council of State is: what does the government think that this has also become a system that is in many ways a new way of obtaining employment immigration to Norway, where social dumping occurs, and where control is difficult?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e1026	This should not be a new path into Norway, nor should it be a system of social dumping. I think there are many who respond to the representative's description of the aupair system. A doctoral thesis written in 2017 states that it is not that most people are treated badly. So here it also benefits from the aupair system. But I also pointed out in my post that there are some dilemmas. I think we should discuss openly the challenges of the aupair system. If the aupair system is to survive in the longer term, it is absolutely essential that it be practiced in line with the intention, and that we are able to defeat the abuse of au pairs. That is also why we have announced that we will come back with some adjustments before Easter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e1031	The Council of State itself admits that there are abuses and major weaknesses in the scheme. The State Secretary has granted it, and the foreign authorities say that it is difficult to have control and overview. In many ways, those responsible for checking this cannot provide any guarantees against abuse. My question to the Council of State, which is concerned that we should not have a foreign law where there is an opportunity to abuse the scheme, is then: Can you, as the responsible Council of State, guarantee that with you, or with the government we have today, there will be an end to the abuse of the aupair system in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e1038	The President will remind the representative that we are not addressing ‘you’ or ‘deg’, but ‘the Council of State’.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e1043	It is not that I need to admit that there is an abuse of the system. It's a well-known case, and that's also the background because I think it's good that we have this kind of debate in Stortinget. This gives us the challenges and the dilemmas of the aupair system, in open discussion, and it also allows us to make changes. A few days ago, I made a change in the foreign policy, so that it would be easier and safer for an au pair to change the host family, and we will return to Stortinget with new proposals before Easter. I believe it is both necessary and right that we have an ongoing debate, so that we can avoid abuse. I think the representative knows very well that a government council cannot stand in this room and guarantee that there will be no abuse of any arrangements, but I think it is important that we from all political parties state that it is unacceptable and that we address the challenges we see with the scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e1050	In 2017, the Stortinget took two decisions in which we asked the government to propose a legislative amendment to ensure that families do not receive au pair if a person in the family has been punished, and that it is possible that families who make gross violations may lose the right to have au pair forever. Now two years have passed, and the Council of State reports that there is still work to be done on this in the department. Why has it taken so much time, and when can we expect it to be in place? This is a prerequisite for us in the Center Party for the continuation of the arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e1055	Let me first say that I am pleased that the Central Party is also associated with the government parties in this matter. Then I believe that the representative, Mr Greni, and representatives of the government parties, see the dilemmas in the aupair system. Now I've been the Council of State for the Aupairs for a shorter period, and what I've been notified from the pulpit of the Stortinge is that we come back with suggestions before Easter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e1060	The Council of State has been the Council of State and has been very active in the matter we can probably call Lex Kalldmyr. It's good that it's going to be sorted out, but what in the world is the reason why it's going to take so long for the other cases of gross abuse – not of the system, but of the man who's come to the country? The government has now spent two years on something that is obviously necessary, namely to ensure that a family where there has been a violation of the law, quite a gross violation of the law, which affects the au pair, does not get au pair again – that it is so difficult to create a regulation that says it! It's the simplest thing in the world. My question is, who is in the government against this?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e1066	No one in the government is against this. That is why I have also announced that this is coming. It will come before Easter, and it will allow the Storting to deal with the matter during the first half of 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e1071	It is unacceptable late when the Council of State says that there are many conditions in the aupair system where someone is exposed to unacceptable things. Another matter for which the government is responsible and has done is to remove help centres where there was legal expertise that could help the au pairs with legally complex questions. It is not so easy when you come from the Philippines to manage to enforce your rights against families that have financial resources to use lawyers. The government has set up an arrangement with Caritas, but not as SV suggests, and given Caritas the money so that they have the opportunity to secure legal competence and follow up the au pairs, as they had an opportunity to do before. What is the reason for excluding them from this legal aid?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e1078	It is not a proposal that has now been put forward. It is a proposal that has been promoted in the past and adopted, and the representative himself points to the scheme that was then put in place as an alternative, namely help through Caritas. I believe it is important that we continually assess whether there is a need for further changes to the scheme, and what help and assistance au pairs receive. I was very clear in my statement that there are some dilemmas in the aupair system, but that we mean the aupair system, when it is practiced in line with what is intention, is a good order. Then it is important that we have an ongoing discussion about the regulation is sufficient to ensure that there are proper conditions for the au pairs as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e1083	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e1090	The Labour Party wants to remove the aupair scheme, and it is completely incomprehensible that the majority in this Chamber will maintain the scheme. When I was young in the early 1990s, 1 000 Norwegian youths went out every year to be au pair abroad. The world has since become smaller, and it's easier to get out of the world. In 2014, 13 Nordics travelled to be au pair abroad, the scheme is open and must be terminated. This is easy. If you need help with the care of children and the washing of the house, of which the centre party and the government are concerned, we believe that you have to pay what it costs, do not use the aupair system and through it saves a lot of money.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e1097	This case was clarified – and that's why we have it today – because it became known that the Minister of Justice in ours had an au pair who did not have a legal residence in the country. Thus we have got this whole case up again. It is interesting to sit and listen to this debate, for the representatives who are opposed to changing the system, this concept of cultural exchange is pushing ahead. I actually know more people who have au pair, and that's also quite funnyly illustrated in the NRK series Exit. Those with au pair are indifferent to this with cultural exchange – breaking indifferent. They want au pair because it's cheap household help, nothing else. There's no other reason than that – for those who actually have it. That the government is using this to keep the system as it is, I think it's very clever. Let's just be very clear that SV is not against people getting help at home. It can be busy life, infant life, both in Oslo west, in Vadsø and on Vålerenga, where I live – definitely very busy lives. But it is definitely not that people in Vadsø and Vålerenga have au pair, they have not even heard about it, no one has heard about it, and no one has it there. This is for us very, very clear, and it's also very clearly said by previous speakers: if people want help at home, they get to pay what it costs on very general terms. People who work in other people's homes are to be seen as workers. They shall have full normal labour rights, they shall have the right to negotiate, they shall be governed by the Working Environment Act and by the ILO Conventions. We cannot defend the fact that we are going to have a housing aid scheme in Norway that provides exemptions and exemptions from the Work Environment Act, and that grants exemptions from general immigration regulations. So this is a system of social dumping, and I think it is quite unworthy that we still have this system in Norway. I record that the majority of this case is more concerned with offering wealthy families cheap domestic help than guaranteeing basic rights to a good number of girls from Asia. I find that unworthy, and I regret that we do not get a majority in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e1110	I also think it is quite serious that the Council of State points out the seriousness of the situation around this scheme, and that the government has so little power to act in order to do something about it. If you are concerned about maintaining the scheme, you have the opportunity to do something more – and I am recording this power that was when the Minister of Justice got in trouble. It is good to ensure that the au pairs have the opportunity to change the host family – it should have been in place a long time ago, as SV has proposed – and that in that case they have a residence permit attached to themselves. But some of what I react most to is cut into legal aid. There the Council of State says that it should be assessed and refers to a scheme that does not have legal assistance, but is an advisory service and a place where you can go and get someone to talk to. It's a small amount of money this is all about in the state budget. Now we're going to operate some conversion propositions, where we're going to float 100 million. kr here and 100 million. And in the state budget, it's the heavy amount of money. And here you can't afford to secure these people proper legal aid, when we know how vulnerable they are. There are very few employees who are obliged to live in their employer's house, who have a residence permit in the country linked to their employer, who have so little money and are in a country where you cannot speak and the system. I think we're going to be honest that it's mostly au pairs from the Philippines. I have all the sympathy with them, but this is not about cultural exchange, it's about someone who's desperately needed an income, and about others who have a lot of money and need babysitting and household care. The government and the majority then fail to protect the weakest party when they force it to pass. It's really nothing to be proud of that we in this country are so poor that we can't even afford to secure the au pairs proper legal aid as SV suggests. It may cost a few million, but I think we can afford it. Then I might also think that the Council of State had not had so much need to look down on the desk when we discuss these matters, which he now has.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e1121	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e1138	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to three lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e1145	Let me start by thanking the Committee for a good cooperation. Digitalisation and new technologies give us unparalleled opportunities. Digitalization is primarily a tool for creating a simpler everyday life for most people, but a prerequisite for developing a lot of the new technology we have is also that we share data, or information, about ourselves. We share the vast majority of information about ourselves entirely voluntarily, in exchange for more customized services. It gives us as consumers the opportunity to get good, tailor-made solutions. Enterprises can develop new industries and the public can better adapt their services to us. In order for the public to be more able to adapt services and simplify everyday life to people, it also requires public sharing of more information across the board. It is also gratifying that the government’s strategy of digitisation is clear that there is a need for better cross-sectoral coordination. Data sharing and digitisation put our privacy under pressure. The challenge picture also changes slightly when there is not the same degree of monitoring by public institutions that consumers need to be on, but rather the scope and use of information by public and private actors for which there is a greater need to limit. If we are to take care of our privacy, we must also demand that data collectors and processors are clear through a clear regulatory framework. The regulatory framework must also be properly enforced, including: by the Data Protection Authority and the Subject. Good privacy is a fundamental human right that is part of the right to our private life, and good privacy is also necessary to preserve our free and liberal state of law. Last year, the Committee pointed out that the municipal sector too needs to be more aware of its responsibilities as an actor who has a large amount of data about us as citizens. It is very positive that the Data Protection Authority has closely followed up the local authority sector, including in particular: through cooperation with the KS and also participation in Council meetings. If the new, good data protection legislation that we have adopted is to work, it requires both public and private actors to comply, and the municipalities are thus an important player. We are in a time when data about us is becoming more and more valuable, and then it is more important than ever that we have a good, clear data protection code, and that the Data Protection Authority and the Data Protection Authority continue to do the good work they do to protect our privacy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e1160	The Committee's position is unanimous, and I am therefore very much referring to the rapporteur's informative statement. As stated in the joint statement, we stress all the importance of protecting privacy and through that right to privacy and the right to determine your own personal data. Nevertheless, the Centre Party, together with SV, has submitted a comment that is largely in line with our comment on the suspension of the case concerning the implementation of the EU Data Protection Regulation in Norwegian legislation. In that case, reference was made to the then Annual Report of the Data Protection Supervisor, which stated that with a new regulation many cases will continue to be dealt with nationally, but clarifications of practice and decisions with precedent are likely to be decided to a large extent internationally. This is the background to the fact that the Centre Party remains critical of the direct inclusion of the Regulation in Norwegian law. We believe that the processing of new personal data by the Storting should be based on our national needs, and we are still critical of the transfer of powers granted to the EU Data Protection Council. At the same time, we very much agree that it has been important to put in place stricter rules on privacy protection, and we continue to support the very purpose of the regulation. It is unfortunate, we believe, that the European Data Protection Board, the EDPB, should be able to adopt decisions which are also binding on the Data Protection Board in Norway. Data supervision should remain independent and should not take instructions from the authorities. It is now subject to a supranational agency and not to the same extent as the former subject of national democratic governance, which the centre party considers to be unlucky.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e1171	I would also essentially like to join the rapporteur's contribution, which brings up all the dilemmas and opportunities of digitisation. There is no doubt that privacy is under pressure. This clearly describes the annual report of both the Swedish Data Protection Authority and the National Data Protection Agency. They also describe a situation of increased scope, increased complexity and new rules to be properly implemented, understood and practised. It's quite demanding for them, but also for all those who are going to do it, and for all individuals. I think that getting to understand the scope of our choices in this regard, and it can have quite serious consequences. Some people do big business on it, but we don't understand it, and we don't quite understand the consequences. The second is whether the state, through its systems, legislation and management, is able to protect its citizens from exploitation and against any misuse of this information that we provide. I think there's a few people out there who can't figure it out. I'm not going to say that I'm doing it. It's a very complicated and difficult field. What I am quite sure is that in the years to come, the state must take an even stronger role in protecting the privacy of a digitised world, use the opportunities that exist there, but that privacy must be an overall consideration when we develop digital Norway in the future, and therefore the state itself must take a much stronger role, for example. in the development of own cloud services and the protection of the information that is publicly necessary, but which can be very person-sensitive, throughout our public activities. Unfortunately, I do not feel quite sure that these are today systems that work like this. They're so complicated and so woven into each other and they require so much competence in every term to understand this, that I think we're a good piece from being where we should be.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e1180	Digitisation of new technologies allows us to better, faster and more efficient our tasks in both the public and private sectors, but the use of digital services also allows us to leave electronic tracks and information about ourselves. This information is valuable and can be used to develop and provide better and more tailor-made services. At the same time, the information may be misused and exploited for purposes other than those for which it was originally obtained. At present, there are hardly any technological or geographical limits for the collection and use of personal data, and then the legal framework for data protection becomes all the more important. Under the Constitution and the European Convention on Human Rights, privacy is a human right. In 2018, we received a new personal data law implementing the EU Data Protection Regulation, GDPR, in Norway. The data portability provision of the Data Protection Regulation allows the inclusion of personal data of a new service provider. In this way, privacy can be a competitive advantage. It should be used by Norwegian developers and service providers. The school and kindergarten sectors process a great deal of information about our children. The use of digital teaching tools is important for the development of children’s digital skills. School-to-home communication becomes easier with digital solutions. At the same time, children and young people are particularly vulnerable to data protection breaches. Unfortunately, we have seen more examples of this harvest. Therefore, when municipalities acquire digital solutions for the processing of data on children, it is particularly important that we carry out good risk assessments. This makes great demands on the local authority's ability to order. Providers must also understand the importance of building systems and technical solutions that protect privacy from the start – so-called embedded privacy. Digitalisation and processing of personal data are inextricably linked. If we are to succeed in digitisation, users must have confidence in those who process information about them. An up-to-date legislation, an active Data Protection Supervisor that controls compliance with the Code, the Subject of Personal Data Protection as an independent review body and international data protection cooperation is essential. In 2018, the Data Protection Authority has built competence in-house and prepared the organisation to handle tasks under new data protection legislation. For 2020, it is proposed to increase the allocation to the Data Protection Authority by 7.8 million. kr. The funds shall include, inter alia: cover crew needs, skills development, resources for ICT systems, new digital communication solutions and increased participation in international data protection work.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e1193	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e1198	We have just received a presentation of the government's budget for next year, and we see how the government prioritises both the Data Protection Authority and the Data Protection Department, and I assume that the Council of State believes that this is sufficient. But what is also ahead of us now is how the public is going to develop its own ICT services. There SV believes that it must be regarded as a state core task, i.e. that state enterprises should develop and operate their own professional systems, under their own control, and have ownership of their own digital infrastructure and architecture. We believe that this is because it is a state core task and a state core infrastructure – and that both the Council of State and the case rapporteur were involved, the difficult limitations of privacy – and that this should therefore be at the bottom when looking at how this should be organised. Do the councils agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e1205	I am pleased that the representative Andersen and I agree that privacy is absolutely central and must be it in all public activities in the future. However, it has not been said that a solution automatically provides good privacy because it is the public itself that has developed it. I think we should also use the innovation power and technology competence in the market to develop good solutions that can also be used by municipalities and state enterprises. This is about imposing strict requirements on integrated privacy, on the processing of personal data, but the technical systems do not necessarily have to be developed by the state or municipalities themselves; external suppliers can also be used.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e1212	While this may be true in the development of systems, it is important that the State has democratic control and control over this, and that the competence and ownership of the structure and architecture in it are also maintained. That's what SV means. I would like to ask the Council of State how he believes that the public should be such a competent buyer of as complex services as this if you don't have the skills that make you know what you need?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e1217	Clearly, it is an important prerequisite that the public itself has good ordering skills in order to use external suppliers. But let me add that if you want to develop the systems yourself, you also need good internal competence. So yes, good public sector skills are important to ensure that the solutions we put into use in the public sector ensure that everyone's privacy is adequately and properly maintained. So here we are in and apart from each other. When it comes to controlling systems like these, we have a national ecosystem of common components that we control, but that doesn't mean we don't also use digital solutions that are developed by others, which in themselves are not under our control either. We have e.g. control of the ID port, but BankID is a solution that banks have developed, which most in Norwegian society use, and which we must assume is also a good way to maintain our personal data.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e1225	During the budget hearing in the municipal committee, we were informed that next year, the defense will start work on putting large parts of what is today's network run by the Defence Agency into private cloud services. This could mean that there's a lot of sensitive information there. This is not what SV thinks is satisfactory, we believe that these are things that you should have operated in your own public cloud service. What is the reason why the Council of State considers that this does not involve a disproportionate risk?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e1230	It is the Minister of Defense who has to answer for the arrangements made by the Defence, even when it comes to the use of cloud services or not, but on a general basis I can say that it is not necessarily such that you get better security around the sensitive information by having your own, separate systems, for example. with servers standing in its own cellar. We need to take advantage of the innovation and the huge resources used by the big commercial players in just security, in order to maintain our personal data. It can also be done under public authority, and there are many examples of the public sector making its own solutions, but I do not think it should be a general rule that everything should be done under public authority. On the contrary, we are now creating a cloud service market to ensure that both state and municipal businesses that want to go into the cloud can provide security in a good way and ensure that they get good conditions if they choose to go into the cloud.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e1235	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e1252	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e1259	First, I would like to thank the members of the Committee for their very good cooperation in dealing with the matter. There has been a great deal of agreement and a desire from all parties to seek good solutions that can strengthen the driving industry. It is also reflected in the opinion of the Committee, where there is cross-political agreement, and where there is a unanimous committee behind all the comments and voting. The accounting industry has experienced a significant decline in raw material input over the last 40 years. In the 1980s, the total annual catch of shrimp in the Barents Sea was close to 120 000 tonnes. The quota recommendations of the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea — ICES — have been 70 000 tonnes in recent years, but the fishing effort and the catch quantity have been strongly reduced. In 2017, a total of 16 000 tonnes were allocated to that country, of which 7 000 tonnes were fished by Norwegian vessels. This reduced activity in shrimp fishing has resulted in a reduction in the number of factories for industrial processing of shrimps in Troms and Finnmark from 26 factories in the 1980s until today, as there are only two factories processing shrimps from the sea fleet. They're both in Troms County. The stock of shrimp in the Barents Sea is in good condition, and the decline in the supply of shrimp to industry is due to reduced activity on the fleet side and not the stock situation in the Barents Sea. There are currently no quotas on shrimps, which allows authorised vessels to fish for free volumes. And despite good catch rates, many shipping companies have chosen not to participate in shrimp fishing. This is very unfortunate for the purpose of exploiting the species, but also for the purpose of ensuring raw material access to industry and safe shore-based jobs. In recent years, a number of measures have both been assessed and implemented to try to increase shrimp resource extraction and ensure that the agricultural industry has access to raw materials. Among other things, in 2014 assigned four dedicated shrimp trawl permits to the shrimp industry in North Norway for the purpose of contributing to ensuring raw material access to the industry. These permits have not yet been put into service, mainly due to low profitability in fishing. A number of other regulatory adjustments and adjustments have also been made to stimulate the effective use of more shrimp trawling authorisations, such as exemptions from the requirement to condemn the structural quota system if the vessel is to be used only for shrimp trawling, exemptions from the requirement for operating basis for the splitting of shrimp trawling permits and opening for the granting of shrimp trawling permits to pelagic trawlers and purse seines without regard to the applicable load space limit for shrimp trawling permits. There are also some points of light. In the last two years, an increased catch of Norwegian shrimp in the Barents Sea has been recorded, suggesting increased profitability. It is also positive for the industry that the Minister for Fisheries and the Government has been willing to consider implementing a number of measures to contribute to increased catches.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e1276	The presentation of the case is quite correct. It is a unanimous committee that is behind it, so I would like to point out that there is a reasonably constructive opposition in this committee that contributes to finding good solutions. And of course, you should also be able to give praise to the position in Stortinget. What is important is to put in place some predictable and long-term solutions for an important industry. We're all concerned about that. We're concerned that you should be able to have activity on land. We're dedicated to getting more processing and local value creation. There are, among other things: the enterprise Stella Polaris important and an enterprise that does just that. They're in Kårvika in Troms, and they're an important corner stone company there. They have also done what we politicians want them to do, namely to use the residual raw material to create new products that can create more industry and more jobs in the districts. The challenge is secure access to raw materials, which are completely dependent on being able to create industry and invest in a new factory, which you want to do there. I also want to show that there have been several things done here. How did they get the products that Marealis actually got? Well, it's been done using the bioprocessing plant outside Tromsø that Nofima operates. It also shows that having tools to drive regional development is important. We would not have had such a unique instrument as the plant if we had not had regional development funds, which I wish we had more of. Finally, the most important thing now is to find a solution. That is why it is good that the matter was raised, it is good that there is a unanimous committee behind it, and it is also a unanimous committee that is asking for and expecting a solution. I just want to wish the Minister for Fisheries good luck, and I look forward to the results.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e1289	I would like to thank the case spokesman for the job he has done. In the previous two articles, it is difficult to find anything to disagree with. This case is about something we're busy with, easy to secure raw material for the industry, because there's a situation where there's enough shrimp in the sea, there's enough demand in the market, but there's too little catch. The centre party is aware that we need to find a solution to this issue, and we need to find a solution that does not challenge an important principle of fisheries policy, such as participation law and the related nationality requirements. A successful fisheries policy also means creating values and jobs on land. There is a joint committee behind this. I have a clear expectation that the Council of State will give priority to this work, and I also have the expectation that the Council of State will find a solution to this problem within what is the central principle of the fisheries policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e1298	I would like to thank the President-in-Office for his constructive cooperation in this matter. This is a matter where we all, across the board, have tried to find solutions, and we have worked well together. It's a good sign that the Storting can also work like that when you find agreement on important things. Here we are in a situation where, if we are politically able to organise the legislation to ensure raw material access to the shrimp industry, we also create more industry, more jobs and more value creation in Norway, based on Norwegian resources. It has been a major concern to see if there is any possibility of setting up the system to close some of the holes, the blind zones, in which the current fisheries policy is actually based, so that one can provide more raw materials to the coast. As you can see from the setting, the committee has not managed to achieve this, but asks the government to continue working with it – and now with the full committee. History of the shrimp industry is fascinating. Until the 1970s, this was largely hand-picking. That meant that one didn't go far at sea to pick up shrimp like such a nuance down. The industry consisted to a large extent of coastal fishermen who collected raw material for land, which was then hand-picked. Then it happened the revolution of the 1970s when it became possible to implement industrially. The machines took over, and it exploded in companies along the coast that could handle this processing. This will also open the possibility to retrieve this resource a great deal of space. One went to Svalbard and Greenland and far into the Barents Sea and picked up raw material as a bring to the coast. This came at a time when other parts of Norwegian fishing had major challenges, so the shrimp industry came in as a rescue for many coastal communities around the country. But the same industrial development also meant that after a while there were too many machines, and an efficiency improvement happened. Today there are only two players left in the shrimp industry. The problems they face today are largely regulatory problems, i.e. political problems, because we have created a system that makes the ocean-going fleet a major priority for fishing for white fish and pelagic fish. It's not profitable enough to house this huge resource, with the enormous potential it creates for creating new industries, etc. So I really want the council to view this as a possibility that is about to be lost, and that needs to be put properly behind to get a solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e1309	The problems of shrimp fishing in the Barents Sea have been discussed for a long time. I have had several meetings with the shrimp industry and I am well aware of the challenges facing the rural industry in terms of access to raw materials. This applies not only to Stella Polaris, but also to Coldwater Prawns, which is the other major actor. They're both in the Senja area. In line with the representative Knag Fylkesnes and the other business committee, I want the shrimp industry to have access to raw materials, and that we use the natural resources that we actually have. As the Committee points out, for a number of years the Ministry has assessed different measures to increase raw material access for the shrimp industry. In 2014, four shrimp trawl permits were granted to the shrimp industry in North Norway. These have not yet been put into use by those allocated to them. Several other regulatory adjustments and adjustments have also been made in order to stimulate the effective use of more shrimp trawl permits, such as:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t derogation from the requirement to convene in the structural quota system if the vessel is to be used only for recirculation; Derogation from the requirement for the operational basis for the splitting of shrimp trawl permits opening so that pelagic trawlers and purse seine vessels may be granted recirculation permission regardless of the applicable load space limit for shrimp trawl permits; withdrawal of passive propellant authorisations In addition, the Ministry conducted a hearing in autumn 2018 on measures related in particular to the concession law to increase fishing for shrimps with trawls in the Barents Sea. The main feedback from the consultation was that it is difficult to regulate from the profitability challenges facing the industry today. I also believe that there is not necessarily so much the authorities can do at the level of detail related to the lack of profitability of the industry, and that, as others have said, there is no easy solution to these problems. Against this background, I believe that the most important thing now is to put in place – as said when the Stortinget has dealt with it – a new quota system and what lies there, just to look at some of the things related to how to professionalise part of the fisheries also within this field. I'm looking at different solutions, and I'd like to take up ideas about what's going on. What I do not believe is that the shrimp trawl permits granted to the industry should also be granted as cod trawl permits. Nor is it an opening-up to the legislation, all the time the structuring that has taken place is also regulated by the law. I really look forward to continuing to work on this, and I will do my utmost to provide a good framework for the industry in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e1339	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e1344	The shrimp ingredient is very poorly used. There are a lot of shrimps in the Norwegian economic zone that are currently not exploited because of the conditions such as: The Minister for Fisheries, other representatives – and I, for that matter – have described this matter. It's a small resource. This is a question that will become more and more topical in time – that there are actually large resources in Norwegian waters that are not being exploited today, precisely because we have set up our fisheries policy financially, economically and regulatoryly against a few large fish species. How will the Council of State continue to work to ensure that we use these raw materials – as shrimp, which is a theme today – for industrial production?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e1351	First, it's important to use the entire raw material and the space that's out there. There I fully agree with the representative Knag Fylkesnes, simply because there are great values, and here we are also talking about a resource factor that is not even covered by allowances, because there are so many resources up there that are not being exploited. We also have to assume that over the last two years there has actually been a significant increase in access to this raw material for industry. Of course, it also has to do with the fact that the market has priced this higher, which makes it more profitable to go after the fish. In addition, of course, we need to look at other instruments. I've been trying to sketch some of what we've been looking at. I think it's by regulating fisheries in a sensible and sustainable way that we get up profitability in the industry in general. The FUNN tax scheme is already being strengthened. It is important to do so because this is also about developing other types of products of the same raw material, which makes it even more profitable.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e1360	The reason I'm asking is that I think we need to use some new tools if we're going to get close enough to leave the Norwegian fisheries policy behind. In this process, a discussion about whether to use an instrument as an occasional tool in industry and in other contexts, such as: that Innovation Norway is targeting and supporting measures to bring about a production where one knows that there is a huge gain on the other hand – i.e. that one in this case, through Innovation Norway, is helping to finance vessels to fish exclusively for shrimps, in order to ensure greater exploitation. Have the Councils considered this?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e1368	There are already schemes through both Innovation Norway and GIEK that should be relevant to use in this context. What's been the problem like that, is that, among other things. specific recirculation permits have been granted, but it is the economic bit in the longer term that makes it impossible to make these investments. I have just met with those who are on these permits, and given the suspension of the entry into force related to using these permits, precisely because they needed more time. With regard to Innovation Norway and the schemes themselves, I'm probably not right to ask that question. I am not responsible for the instrument in Innovation Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e1375	When it comes to GIEK and Innovation Norway, it's been said from Reiarhalt that a person often lacks top funding in those schemes to really take the big steps. This could have been an interesting field: to contribute to a top-level funding scheme through the instruments mentioned above, precisely to advance the exploitation of raw materials – to ensure top-level funding, i.e. to provide favourable loans and lower risks, so that the country takes a greater part of the risk of the scheme, to ensure increased raw material efficiency. The alternative is that one starts to break free from the legislation of Norwegian fisheries legislation – the big pillars found in both the participating laws and the marine resource laws. This could be a financial way to solve the same challenge. Is this something that has been discussed between the Minister for Fisheries and the Minister for Industry at any time?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e1382	We have not discussed these issues related to top funding for Innovation Norway. It is the Minister of Industry who is responsible for Innovation Norway and the instrumentation in this respect. What I can say is that entrusting a greater part of the risk to others does not improve the industry's profitability. And it's the industry's profitability that needs to rise, because you have relatively high operating costs because you have long trawls, there's a lot of engine power used, and so there's also a lot of fuel consumption. In addition, it goes without saying that the most important thing is to get the price up in the market and make sure that you have both by-products, such as by-products. Stella Polaris is developing the blood pressure medicine they're looking at and testing, and working towards markets and making sure that we get our products sold at a high quality and high price.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e1389	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e1396	The proposal we are considering today points to the challenging situation experienced by the Norwegian shrimp industry. Fortunately, there is an overall committee that is concerned about the challenges and wants to find solutions to them. At least I'll encourage you to show creativity in that regard. The case also demonstrates how different a seafood company with active fishermen as owners and one who is without can be. We are not going to do anything about basic legislation, but there may be good reason to observe how different those challenges can be. We are left with two processing companies of this type, despite a large available resource of deepwater shrimps in the Barents Sea. Sometimes this resource has been used very little, so little that you can worry about more relationships related to it. One company is linked to a trawler that has during periods been responsible for most of the Norwegian shrimp catch in the Barents Sea. This, of course, gives rise to special challenges with regard to raw material access. The shrimp price has varied a great deal, something more has been involved, and sometimes more than for other species. It makes it difficult to assess the risk associated with investment in one shrimp trawler. This is the background for not investing in and activating one shrimp trawler. There is doubt about the long-term profitability of the specialised catch of shrimps. The catch of shrimp in the Barents Sea is therefore carried out in combination with cod trawls. It's pretty clear, looking back over the last decades, that there's a very close relationship between the shrimp price and the catch volume. High prices give rise to high catches - low prices produce low catches. No one can expect to take a regimen if there is no profitability in it. We must continue to work on finding solutions that can make it attractive for those who have reclamation concessions to provide supply to the reclamation companies. However, when an exclusive right to catch is granted, it is conditional on actual capture of the resource, so that the activity and value creation that will come out of it is realised. There have been relatively low activity requirements related to the shrimp concessions. This year the raw material supply and price are good, while the volume from competing waters is low. We have to follow this development carefully, and I think we may need to assess the activity requirements associated with the reclamation concessions in the future. As indicated in the setting, the government is considering different measures to make raw material access safer. Perhaps the most important thing is to get through the quota notification so that we can set a safe framework for the future. I would like to add that for industrial, value creation and employment reasons and for maintaining historical rights, at least I believe that this will lead to increased withdrawals of shrimp in the Barents Sea. We see that others are already increasing their activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e1413	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e1430	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e1437	This case is about the government wanting to wind up a law, the law on conversion. The conversion laws have essentially the following arrangements: if there is a risk of closure of an enterprise with more than 30 added in the last 12 months, a notification must be sent to the county within a certain period. The county may then convene a discussion meeting where a caller, whether from well-being, Nav, Innovation Norway, employees, employers, owners, etc., may discuss ways of resolving closures other than decommissioning. This is a law that has been used successfully in some areas, while in other areas it has not been used – one cannot say if it has been a success or not. This is an inheritance from a previous law that gave even more strict leads for notification, but because we are part of the EEA, the conversion law under the red-green government became a variant that could have the same purpose. Here the Storting is divided into two, in the middle. The opposition believes that the laws will continue to exist, while the government party wants to liquidate it. The foundation of the government party is that it no longer pursues the industrial policy objectives and has little effect and little significance, and that it is largely preserved – parts of it, at least – in other legislations, in the work environment law. From the opposition's side points to the success this has been the places that the laws have actually mattered, that the county has the possibility of preventing unnecessary closure, as it has proven, by finding good solutions locally. We can't see what's the reason for setting up a system that works in some places in the country, when the burden for those who intend to lay down is so minimal. It has been tried to find a figure here on what the annual cost of business is — and it is really a good attempt — but it is marginal in this case costs, in time to a large extent and in the process of processing, for the companies involved. What you have by passing on such a law is a tool for maintaining jobs, especially in the districts. The big hindrance here is that Norway – unlike our neighbouring countries – is largely in a situation where there is less Norwegian ownership. This will help to ensure more Norwegian ownership, i.e. fewer closures, fewer purchases of foreign operators. I refer to proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e1450	The representative of Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e1455	One starts by saying that this is not the law that makes unprofitable businesses to become profitable, but the question here is whether it makes sense to have some processes at the time an enterprise is in danger of shutting down. Is it wise then to initiate some assessments – with the county municipality as an actor, with the employees as an actor, with the owners, with Nav, with Innovation Norway? We're serious. But the government does not seem to think so. They believe that it is wrong. A person does not achieve any policy on nutrition by it — a strange statement. One shall at least ensure that it makes sense to sit down and talk through a situation which is quite serious for many and affects many, because it is only in cases where there are more than 30 employees on the holding that it applies. I cannot understand that it is neither very bureaucratic nor very costly to make those conversations. On the contrary, I think it makes sense to do that. A small example: in Telemark, there is now a situation at the yard in Brevik, Vard, which is at risk of cancelling 106 employees. The discussion processes that exist between employees, between management, between the municipality, the county and other actors are quite relevant discussions. I think it is absolutely necessary discussions to carry out. The fact that a person now just rejects this and, as a matter of fact, is going to repeal the law stands for me as being most remarkable. The other thing that is remarkable in this case – or perhaps natural, because it is the right parties that promote the case – is that when you look at the hearing bodies, they are divided right in the middle: the half will repeal the law, get rid of it – it is employers – while those who want it are initially the county council and employees. It tells very clearly which side the right parties take in this case, as they do in a number of cases. Maintaining the rights of employees in this kind of demanding processes, especially for employees, is subordinate, it seems. I think that's suspicious, but it's very recognizable considering the government that's now sitting. So I think that's a strange approximation. The majority say that this is ‘understood by other laws’. What other law that embraces all workers? It would have been good to know. It also states that the conversion law does not function in accordance with its purpose and entails «necessary costs for business». What unnecessary costs for business are those represented in this case – how much is there to talk about in terms of loss and gain? Should it not be that in a situation where an enterprise is at risk of being closed down, an actual one is going through the situation in a proper orderly manner, which is the starting point for the law on conversion?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e1466	Today we're going to do something that, according to a lot of people, we're going to do too rarely, because we're going to repeal a law. When we in the Right want to modernise and simplify, it also means clearing up laws and removing laws that are either so-called sleeping or that do not work according to the purpose. As we know, the purpose of the migration law was to reduce negative impacts on employees and communities when it is relevant to shut down an enterprise. When we hear the representative from the Workers' Party closest to railing about wanting to remove assessments and to remove conversations, it is not at all right for any responsible owner – including within the applicable legislation outside the migration law – to take into account both assessments and interaction between employees and employers. It is not the case that the employees or employers are either taken on their side. Very often it's the same side; they're interdependent. If you're just going to go blind to one side, as the Labour Party's representative puts it, I think you're doing yourself a bear service. We also heard the representative from SV rambling up everyone who was obliged to cooperate, such as Innovation Norway, the Labour and Welfare Act, the municipality, the employees, the management, the owners, etc. This, of course, is both bureaucratic and cost-effective. There's no doubt about it. The reason for repealing this law is that it is protected by other laws. We heard the representative from the Labour Party ask: What laws? Well, both Chapter 8 of the Labour Environment Act, which includes rules on information and discussions between the parties on matters of particular importance, and Section 15, guidelines for discussions on mass dismissals, are concrete examples of existing legislation that actually respects the law we are now, of course, to repeal. The law does not work according to its purpose. The reporting obligation incurs unnecessary costs for business. The representative from the Workers' Party wondered what it was that did, and that's just the reporting obligation. The Right Party, the Progressive Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party want to point out that this law was introduced to stimulate dialogue between decommissioned businesses and local authorities and to contribute to conversion and provide opportunities, but it has not had a significant impact on the achievement of the industrial policy objectives, nor has it been essential to prevent the closure of businesses or jobs. So the purpose is taken care of and the purpose is captured. It is the objective of the Right and the Government to clear up unnecessary and outdated legislation, and together with the industrial policy considerations, it suggests that the migration law should be repealed.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e1477	It's an ideological proposal presented here by the government. It will weaken the ability to pursue an active industrial policy, and not least it will take away from regions — or districts — an active tool in their work on industrial policy. As usual, it's simplification a push ahead of itself. The previous speaker spoke of a clean-up here. I'll probably think that for most entrepreneurs this won't be noticeable – it's a very, very marginal cleanup a drive with here. And if you're going to carry on the clearing terminology, maybe you're going to focus on an image that hangs a little bit of a skew, what one of you is doing. But it shouldn't be on the sale, and I'm absolutely sure this will generate new Facebook profiles or posters on the Right's website. But what you're not saying is the hearing statement from, for example. Upland and Hedmark counties, who say that «the law has ensured the maintenance of jobs and the establishment of new jobs as a result of the law». For the Center Party, it's important. We are busy working throughout the country, we are busy caring for jobs throughout the country, and we want the counties – no regions – to have the means to do this. I would also like to ask for a description of the extent of this simplification. Because what's absolutely certain, if you're going to trust the hearing authorities, is that the removal of this law will have a negative consequence. The positive consequence is not likely, and then the center party thinks it's wrong to cancel the laws.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e1493	In Norway, we have a statutory and contractual body that ensures workers against incalculable redundancies and sets out clear rules for bankruptcy or closure procedures in which employees lose their jobs. One of the most important legal provisions governing such matters is Section 15-2 of the Environmental Protection Act. That paragraph states that in the case of mass redundancies involving at least 10 workers, both trustees on the holding and Nav shall be notified. The employer who considers going to mass redundancies shall conduct discussions with the employees’ trustees in order to determine whether it is possible to avoid redundancies or to reduce the number of redundancies. If the employer is considering shutting down the business, the possibility of further operations should also be discussed. This also applies to the possibility for employees to take over the business. If cancellations cannot be avoided, the adverse aspects of the terminations shall be reduced. This applies, inter alia, to: the possibility of aid for redeploying or re-training the job-seekers. It is therefore not the case that workers' protection under labour law is being jeopardized when the government is now proposing to repeal the conversion law. Prop. 136 L for 2018-2019, however, is promoted as part of the government’s simplification policy aimed at reducing costs and unnecessary administrative burdens for business. The repeal of the conversion law is also announced in the Granavolden platform, where it appears that the government will: ‘remove unnecessary and obsolete legislation, including the removal of the law on conversion’. As former county politicians in More and Romesdal, I remember well when the conversion law was introduced in 2008. I remember that we in the Christian People's Party party group at the time asked us something questioning about the need to introduce such a law, even though we did not go against a positive opinion from the county council. There were three reasons why we were somewhat skeptical: Firstly, because the rights of workers were and remain well respected in the Working Environment Act in the event of mass redundancies involving at least 10 workers, whereas the provisions of the Conversion Act only apply if at least 30 workers may lose their jobs in the event of the closure of an enterprise. secondly, because the conversion law applies only in the event of the closure of an enterprise and not in the event of a risk of bankruptcy Thirdly, because the county council in the conversion law was empowered to intervene and postpone the planned closure of an enterprise for up to two months The intention to introduce the migration law was undoubtedly good, but practice in the years that followed shows that the law works to a small extent according to its purpose. There are examples of the fact that the obligation to notify has led to the maintenance or establishment of jobs, but also numerous examples of the opposite, such as: results from the opinion delivered by the Municipality of Oslo. We in the Christian People's Party therefore conclude, in the same way as the Auditor's Association in their hearing opinion, that the measures contained in the Conversion Act can be implemented in cooperation between the enterprise and the authorities without the need to legislate. In addition, the rights of workers are covered by the Working Environment Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e1527	The representative Reiten explained in many ways what is also my view on this matter, because the employees are well cared for in the law that exists. And that's not what the representative of Aasland says, that on our part we believe that the employees are immaterial. No, on the contrary -- that's the competence hub, that's the key, in addition to the capital that else lies there. So it's kind of signified this as well, not least when the representative Pollestad is up and running in his own way and, by the way, ridicules that we need simplification. Then I'll be in a bit of a hurry, because from my time in local government, etc. And what I've been doing there, I can say that when things like that show up, it's the municipalities that run the dialogue with businesses. Through the dialogue, there are many examples that we don't necessarily manage to avoid bankruptcy, but that we might get new owners in, and it's that dialogue, not if it's two months' stop or not, that creates active enterprise policies. I have to say that I am a little stunned when it is said in this room that it is negative to simplify. For business it is very positive with simplifications that we are getting time thieves out, which do not create productivity, so I have to say that I am very much stunned over. But I realize that it's not that important, not least about the Center Party. For others of us, it is important that we have a well-functioning private business throughout the country that is actually going to deliver goods and services and not least jobs. That I believe must be the key, and then simplification is part of the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e1534	We need to have good and orderly processes at downskills and closures in private Norwegian business throughout the country. We have, and it's not because of this law, to say it very simply. The reasons for the government to promote this, and the reasons for the majority parties to support it, are simply that this law has not functioned properly. Overall, it has not proved effective, and then there is no reason to have the law either. It's worth remembering what this law is. It sounds like the law almost gives a kind of county veto or something like that – not that someone has said it directly, but it's important to bear in mind that it doesn't give it. It provides an alert obligation and a type of dialogue obligation. I think it's good dialogue, that the instrument is on the plate, and that both Nav and other parts of the public make up if there are downhaulings and closures, as is the case for the universe covered by this law, but it's not this law that does it in practice. It's an important starting point for the government to simplify and clear rules, and then it's also natural that rules that don't work according to purpose and have no strong effect are removed. So it's asked on the margin how much is the cost of this? This is not one of the big things for private Norwegian business, not least because Norway is doing pretty well and we are pursuing an active industrial policy that means that not a lot of companies have to take the cost of the conversion law because they are going to drop. When the law came, it was calculated, in 2008 kroner, that it was about $12 million. DKK in the cost of business and around 4 million. kr for counties. I can't do it on the stand to convert this into 2019 bills, but that's what the price tag for it is. The law does not contribute significantly to stimulating total value creation and maintaining and creating profitable jobs, nor does it contribute to good conversion capacity in the Norwegian economy. It is absolutely right, and it is important, what has been said, that the abolition of the conversion law does not mean that workers' rights are being weakened. Both the provisions of the Working Environment Act and those of the main agreements, e.g. between NHO and LO, of course, still applies. Furthermore, the instrumentation is also involved without the conversion law and is interested in assisting both conversion and, where necessary, new owners.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e1547	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e1553	It is interesting to listen to the Minister of Industry, because I tried to listen to some good arguments to actually remove the law, but everything is going to be done as it has always done, says the Minister of Industry. Then I am a little surprised. Is it not the intention now to eliminate burdens on business, as the law on conversion has been promoted? Isn't it the intention to have fewer meetings, reduced costs and less use of county bureaucracy to talk about processes where companies shut down? Is that the purpose, or isn't it the purpose? It would have been good to clarify. Is it intended to simplify labour input from business and from the county and to save costs?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e1558	The answer to that question is yes, that's the purpose. But my point is very simple, and that is that it seems to me as a completely theoretical possibility that state politicians, the relevant parts of the instrument, big business politicians and even departments – we are often contacted if there are workplaces at risk – should from now on say no, we are not interested in this because the conversion law is gone. My point is that the law is superfluous, and the mechanisms set up by the law are superfluous. That doesn't mean that there won't be dialogue or meetings if jobs are to be laid down, that just means we don't need this law to do it. Thus, they become different or voluntary, in a different way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e1563	There is a theoretical possibility that there will be fewer meetings, says the Minister of Industry now. That's a little bit strangely argued, too. But does he have any understanding of the majority of the hearing bodies that actually argue to maintain the law on conversion, and that in some cases it may be necessary for a person to have a law that initiates a conversation, which can initially be a positive process, if an enterprise has to shut down?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e1570	I understand. It's not that those arguments are invalid or bad, it's just that I disagree. I believe that an overall assessment of this law indicates that that law has not had a significant effect. It introduces a process and a reporting obligation, but in reality it is a law that has not helped to maintain and of course not to create any new jobs, and then it makes sense to take the law away. The question has to be asked, in a room where we talk so much about the Norwegian model and about close cooperation between politics and workers and employers. It's just the kind of mechanism, dialogue and culture for cooperation that's going to continue in many places, completely independent of a law that doesn't prove to have any real effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e1577	I can't quite understand the argument of the Minister of Industry. I also agree that in very many cases and perhaps in the vast majority of cases, this kind of process will go independent of the conversion law. That is not what we are concerned about when we now point out that it is unwise to cancel the law. That's to get it to where those processes aren't going to start. That's where the law has its function. When I hear the Minister of Industry as well as cover himself that the employment environment law and the law and the contract work as well as have to comply, replace or be complementary to what the conversion law covers, it is with respect to report errors. If not, I would like to hear a more detailed explanation as to how he sees a person being taken care of – in terms of what is stated in the conversion law – based on what is laid down in the Labour Environment Act and what is the legal and contractual work. Once said, it's good to prove that it actually applies.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e1584	What I said, quite specifically, was that the relationship between the employer and the employee is regulated by the Labour Environment Act, including in the case of redundancies or lay-offs, and that the employee is thus taken care of. It is clear that it will mean no longer being given a warning obligation to the county of the closure of a holding, or a period of dialogue imposed, and in particular a 30-day freeze period. It'll be gone. My point was that the employee is well cared for in the law. In this way, we will continue to feel this way in Norway that, in the event of downsizing and closures, proper and orderly conditions are involved. In fact, it is one of the major advantages in Norway that we have been good at having an economy where we are fighting to keep jobs, but where it is also possible to reduce and reduce in a proper and proper way, in cooperation between the employee and the employer.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e1591	It is a little unclear to me who it is in the Chamber of the Council of State that has referred to this as a veto right to the county council against closures. I think it's more like a political resistance that the Minister of Industry is drawing up here. My question is that it is the county councils that are an important user of this law, and many of them have expressed themselves critically for its removal. Among others, write Uppland and Hedmark County that «the law has ensured the maintenance of jobs and the establishment of new jobs as a result of the law». Then my question to the Council of State is, are they wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e1603	First, I underlined that no one said that it was a veto right, but it's also okay to have it in the record. Then someone else who is not sitting in this room might also follow up on the debate, but has not gone into the matter as thoroughly as the committee has done. So to the question, no, I can't say they're wrong. That's what I mean to be arrogant. But what I can say is that when we have dealt with this matter and also looked at all the hearing opinions, I do not think there is evidence that this law itself has had the desired effect. What will be the control question for me – and here we might have a slightly different approach – is: do we need a law to get good processes where it is necessary, or do we have other ways to ensure it? The reason is not that this is a terrible, thoughtful law, or that it's cruel that someone introduced it, or something like that. It is simply that it has not been shown to have the desired effect. And then, for us who are a government that wants to simplify, the natural answer is to take away the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e1610	It is the county councils who have administered this law. When one looks at a hearing response, 11 of the county councils are opposed to repealing the law. There are three county councils who have spoken for or for or against. From the perspective of the county councils there is massive resistance to this. The state and local authorities are opposed to their own organisations, as well as to the massive opposition of employee organisations. So they think that the consequence of this suspension is unnecessary closures, unnecessary cancellations, unnecessary unemployment, unnecessary dramatic consequences for small communities. State council says there's been no significant effect. What all these actors have seen of effect is completely wrong – there is no effect?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e1619	That's not what I said. Not all the hearing bodies that we believe should maintain the law point out that they believe it has had a concrete effect. As far as I remember, there are two, but I may have to correct myself there. But if a law has no significant effect, which is a good word to use, and if that's the way everything the law is supposed to take care of could be done finely in other ways, and in addition, you can simplify and at the margins create slightly lower costs for both public bureaucracy and private jobs, that's a good reason to remove a law. Then there are shared opinions among the hearing opinions on this. NHO, Works, Finance Norway, Auditor's Association etc. believes that it is a good idea to remove the law, they agree with the arguments of the government and the majority parties. I think we should be honest and say that this is not going to relieve the burden on Norwegian business very much, but neither is it a law that has had any significant effect when jobs are to be laid down.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e1635	It was not the obvious effect of the Council of State actually said in its article. I wrote that down, and he can see that in the minutes afterwards. The last answer can bring me to the second question, and it's about the work environment law. When was the conversion law and the work environment law the same purpose? Section 15 of the Working Environment Act shall, of course, take account of the rights of workers at the time of closure. The conversion laws have had a completely different purpose: to look at the options for avoiding unnecessary closures, to see if they can be added to the enterprise, that other owners can take over the enterprise, that they can find other types of scheme – a much broader societal perspective. This is precisely why employee organisations also oppose this, because they see that we have a work environment law that guarantees them when they close down, but the migration law may be a possibility in a much broader sense. Does the Council of State see that this is a major difference between the law on migration and the law on working conditions?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e1644	First, a clarification: yes, I mentioned it, I even repeated it in the answer to the previous question. It was the rhetorical attachment from the County that I have not said, nor would I agree. It is quite correct what the County describes, the Working Environment Act has a different device than this. This means that one will no longer be required to notify the county, a period of dialogue and a period of residence imposed. It's of course, if it hadn't been a simplification. But what I find a little difficult to believe is that the many nice, active, engaged state politicians we have should not be interested in, or have only been interested in, a business closure because it has been something called the conversion law adopted by the Storting. It's not like our device, for example. Innovation Norway, with this, says that they cannot go into and help here, because they no longer have the law on conversion. It doesn't work that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e1653	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e1658	The Conversion Act contributes to the maintenance and creation of profitable jobs. It's having an effect. In the hearing replies from the Inland and – particularly interesting – the Elverum municipality, you can look at the history if you are interested in how the law actually matters in the real world. In the municipality of Elverum, the law on conversion has been applied in several specific cases. I can mention three. When Nycomed was going to shut down, the conversion law was used. Block Foundry, which was a company with more than 200 employees at most, also received help from the Conversion Act. The same applies to Nortura’s facilities in the municipality of Elverum. If we take Nycomed in particular, it's a rather fascinating story because the law of conversion helped the regional authorities to get in touch with the Japanese owners. Later, conversion funds were made available, and today Curida is a very up-to-date, active enterprise that we absolutely need to bring with us in a Norway where we are going to convert the economy. This is about the view of jobs and value creation, and the interesting thing about this case, which makes it so exciting to discuss in principle, is that it shows the main difference in this policy area. Economic and industrial policy is on the red-green side of Norway. It becomes clear if we compare this matter with other laws that we actively use to support under value creation, employment and production. Take, for example: The concession law, which contributes to the benefit of those who are active in business, not speculators, of our soil resources. It's the exact same kind of principle mechanism. We see that the right-wing government also weakens the ability of regional authorities to be involved in and contribute to change, cutting regional development funds to the bone so that they are soon gone. This is a classic case from the right-hand government. The reason why it occurs is because you misunderstand, you mix and think that accumulation of wealth on fewer hands is the same thing as being nutritious. No, it can in many cases be anti-commercial for local jobs in Norway because it makes it easier to move profitable enterprises — such as the United Kingdom. Curida is today – abroad. You can ask yourself this question: if there are two laws like this. would, for example, ensure the interests of those who have large values in property. Berum Right said that no, we have one law that does that, we don't need another? Of course they had gone for both.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e1671	The work on this case has been a little bit special, because when you read the proposition, it's not at all a very well-founded proposition. I will take two things for myself in this post. First of all, it seems that the objective has been pursued by other laws. It's outright wrong. One refers to two places in the Working Environment Act. This is a law that does not apply to any of the rights added at the time of termination. There shall be discussions with the employer and the employee organisation. It's the only thing. That it covers the same purpose – those who have kept it today, and have pointed to it, is wrong. There are two completely different purposes. The migration law has a much wider perspective on these questions. It is not just a question of saving the rights to them added at the time of closure. The question is an entirely different one. That's: is it possible to imagine alternatives to decommissioning? Then one brings in all the actors that it's natural to bring in the current closure, whether it's work and well-being or Innovation Norway. One doesn't have to bring everyone in, but they're natural to bring in, as well as adding, owner and lead. So until the question of the role the county council has in assessing whether to use the possibility they have to call for the discussion meeting. They don't do that in a lot of cases, but that gives them the ability to do it. As one knows if one has read the audiocassettes that have come to this matter, it has been used, and yes, it has led one to prevent unnecessary closures, that people have unnecessarily left the port of secession and unemployment, unnecessary expenses for society, and for people and costs for the community. One has avoided it through this mechanism where the county has a role, but when this law is repealed, the county no longer has that role. The Council of State pointed out that Innovation Norway will no doubt begin to travel around and follow developments in Norwegian business and hit where necessary. Of course, it won't happen. We are not going to get any active Innovation Norway that, through the debate on this issue, upon the repeal of this law, feels that they will be given a new mandate in Norwegian society. No, it's a poverty -- it's not a simplification. It is a poverty in the law to remove the possibility that a county municipality has of taking initiatives. That is why almost everything that can crawl and walk from county municipalities that have taken a stand on this matter has said no.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e1682	I agree with the representative Eidem Løvaas on one point, namely that employees and business owners have the same interest in the migration law, because it is about securing jobs, securing businesses and securing communities important businesses in their local environment. Therefore, this is not the same as the Labour Environment Act’s provisions to ensure that employees receive help from Nav when they become unemployed. Here, the whole other thing is being brought in. Here it is County, Municipality, Innovation Norway – the good helpers who can help you as a business owner when you stand there and don’t see a way out. Also in my home country of Nordland, Narvik, this conversion law has been used. So the Minister of Industry says it's not worth it, it's used so little, there's few notifications. Yes, how many enterprises must have found a solution, how many jobs must be built in order to have a law on conversion worth it and to be able to get help from Innovation Norway, county councils, municipalities and other good helpers around Norway when the company is struggling? How many good solutions locally are it worth losing to get permission to repeal a law? It is said that of course there is nothing wrong with the states being able to engage, municipalities being able to engage, and Innovation Norway being able to engage. I don't know how many of you have worked close to a company that's going to go bankrupt, but then it's kind of not Innovation Norway and the county council you call to, then you're busy keeping the creditors from life. Then you are busy talking to your suppliers. That's when you think about your employees. Being in a bankruptcy situation is so demanding that you do not take the telephone to the county council if you do not have to. That is the problem of the government's proposal in this matter. You don't necessarily have the resources to raise your eyes, as the law of conversion actually requires you to do. There have been many good examples of good local companies that have received help, owners and employees who have been guaranteed further operation by the Conversion Act. It is saddening for Norway and for the industry in Norway that this option is not retained.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e1693	This case well shows that there are some ideological approaches to the law of conversion and to the law and regulation that are there. I can see that. Nor can I remember that the right-wing parties have in any way promoted matters that basically mean good for ordinary workers around. It is probably where some of the germs of the conflict lie, in removing everything regulatory that can somehow make an disadvantage for an employer – in this case the closure of an enterprise that has more than 30 employees. Ideally and ideologically, they would have liked to have also encouraged the abolition of any other regulations and regulations, including when it comes to discussing with employees in certain situations, they would have been free to do so. I think it's suspicious. One cannot argue on the part of the majority as to why the law should be repealed. I don't see any good reason for that. The simplification argument has itself a clear argument to argue away from through the debate here in the Chamber, and one has also made it known that one really wants all the processes to continue. That's the weird thing. The processes to which the migration law initially refers argue both the Minister of Industry and the right-wing parties to continue – because it makes sense, it is said. It stands for me as completely meaningless to go for the repeal of a bill as long as everything goes on as before, and there are no savings either. In the end, the representative Eidem Løvaas said what was perhaps the most eye-catching. He said that any responsible owner takes responsibility for this dialogue. Yeah, who's the one lifting the law for then? The irresponsible owners? This, I think, is a strange approximation to a law. One might well discuss whether it's non-profit, but that it has its mission in some cases, there's no doubt, it's raised above any doubt, and it's well-founded by the county councils that have submitted their reasons for it. The fact that the government and the right parties now choose to propose this law repealed has an ideological dimension, and I also think, after all, that this is ideologically justified.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e1702	The representative of the Workers' Party concluded by pointing out that county councils have argued well why the law should be retained. Then I want to take my own county municipality as an example, namely Vestfold, which argues well why the law should not be retained. In ten years they have had 15 enquiries, three of which ended in dialogue. The other twelve would obviously not be subject to the law, and the dialogue with the three ended with an outcome that, according to the Westfold County Municipality, would not be likely to be different, or would have found other solutions themselves, without the law. The County of Westfold also stresses that they feel that all those who made contact had made these assessments before contacting the county council, as required by law. There are three things that initially help when a company is struggling. It is instruments, capital or reduced costs. None of the three are subject to the conversion law — neither the instrument, capital injection nor reduced costs. It was also said – again from the county council – that the purpose of reducing the negative impact on employees is not met by the conversion law. So it's as clear as the Workers' Party is trying to get it done, I think we can say no votes. Curida at Elverum was mentioned. That's interesting. I also met Curida at Elverum, and they told a lot about how they had managed both to take over the company, turn it around and make it both one of the great successes in the interior and a great Norwegian success. None of them mentioned, as far as I remember, the conversion law in a single word. Because that's not what this is about. It's about hard work. It's about the fact that the employees who took over the company were afraid to go in with private capital, to use the tool, and to cut costs – the three things I said instead. SV's representative said that if we remove this law, there will be a poverty in the law. Then I think maybe we're getting closer to the ideological approach from the red-green side that the more promises the richer the pussy gets. In the end, the representative Lyngedal from the Workers' Party said it's important to have this law, because when you're at such a stage in an enterprise, you don't have the resources to raise your eyes, and then it's nice to have a law that requires it, i.e. a law that requires you to do something that you don't have the resources to do. I think we have explained in this debate that the purpose of the law and the purpose of the law are fulfilled by other laws, and that there is only a kind of love for the number of laws that lie behind the red-green desire not to lift it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e1717	Erna Solberg will be remembered as the Prime Minister who made the spectacular breach of promises and failed with the conversion of the Norwegian economy. It is extra paradoxical that she also becomes the Prime Minister who removes the law of conversion – as a bit of a funny curiosity. Norway is in a difficult situation. The deficit for mainland Norway has only increased. Last year, there were negative 250,000 million kroner, and it seems that Norway will have the largest deficit of the mainland economy in trade with the rest of the world this year. It tells us as clearly as it is possible to get information about, that we need all the value creation, all the production and all the jobs with us further in Norway. Then, of course, we have to have a good law, and we have to have investment and conversion funds in combination. Now, when it's cut into regional development funds and at the same time takes away a nice way of getting into dialogue, there's the key to the transition that we so badly need for our country. The conversion law had meaning for Curida. The conversion law was also important when Nortura tried to lay down on Elverum, because they had to sit down at the table and set out a plan for how production could continue. That's good stories. At least we from the Inland think it's very nice that we have those jobs. Because we need more, not less, industrial jobs. So I think that this debate really goes into the core of the view of history and ideology. Because it is beyond doubt, we believe on the red-green side, that our democracy has played a positive role in providing housing, jobs, value creation and production around our country. There is a clear parallel to agricultural policy, where we see that since Sylvi Listhaug came in, there is a much stronger policy for those who are going out of agriculture than for those who are going into the future. There is also an important point in this case that the jobs that can be created as a result of good work on the conversion law, do not necessarily have a voice today, because for those who own the capital, moving abroad can be tempting because you see the possibility of even greater profit, but for the communities, for us who are concerned that there should actually be prospects throughout Norway, the opportunity is very nice to have with them. Therefore, this is simply a distinction in which societal considerations are most valued.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e1730	Now I'm pretty liberal to mind as a person, and I'm concerned that laws and rules shouldn't go too far into people's lives and that kind of thing. That's where I come from politically, while I'm a socialist. But there is something special about the entrance to Eidem Løvaas, which I think must almost be something quite unique in this room, where he argues that there is a kind of goal in itself with few laws – that there is a driving goal with few laws. The objective of the laws has a need-to-know perspective: What is needed to achieve the objectives of society? How, then, should the laws be? How should a build this society? And it's in such a perspective it's poverty when one removes a law that gives the county councils a mechanism to engage in cases of closure. And what's the burden we're talking about here? There are 30 days – 30 days you have to report, and then the county must, within a period of 30 days, possibly call the meeting – 30 days! And for 30 days, a smooth ignores all the statements from the county councils that this is bad politics, it takes away important tools, it can actually prevent unnecessary closures, unnecessary cancellations, unnecessary expenditure on the budgets of other state councils, etc. I notice that e.g. Nav is not the hearing authority on this issue, and I don't know whether the Minister of Labour or the Minister of Social Affairs has been involved in this matter either. No, it's just an ideological idea, which I think is completely new, that one should reduce the number of laws, and that it's a good thing in itself. I think that's a sort of summary of this debate. Rarely have I experienced a debate with so few points for a rather large measure, the suspension of a law. Rarely have I seen such bad arguments both in the proposition and not least from Storting's pulpit. In particular, this reference to the work environment law seems fascinating to me, that a memento it lasts for this purpose, when it is proven to be a completely different purpose. And it's not an option here -- it's not like the opposition wants to delete the work environment law, it's there. Workers still want it. So it's really a strawman argument, and I think it's weak.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e1741	The representative of Terje Aasland has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e1747	I would just like to draw attention to the fact that the county – or the new regions now – as development actors and as important business players in the development of business is now being deprived of the only formal opportunity they have to sit down with different actors and discuss a situation of dismissal. The only formal entrance lies in this law, which now Christian People's Party and Left will lift – a strange, strange, entrance to this regional idea. To the representative Eidem Løvaas: he refers to the opinion of the Vestfold county council, which is one of the really few negative statements of the county council, but one should read those who are positive and who point out that this actually has a meaning. That's what you have to do in these cases. That is where it has worked that the law actually has a great and important meaning. And now the Left and Christian People's Party is using this opportunity to [[The President cut off]] [[the President cancels again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e1754	The number is out.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e1759	The representative Eidem Løvaas made me speak. When you can't talk to good helpers, you have to let it go when you're in a bankruptcy situation. I think it's important to remember what's at stake. It's a job with 30 employees. You just have to give a message to the county council, and then the county council has an obligation to start an apparatus that you don't have to organize yourself. Maybe one is in a situation where one is about to lose his life's work, and then there's a lot of things one has to think about. So getting some good helpers does nothing. The purpose is to find a good solution. If Curida didn't mention the conversion law, it might have been one of the reasons why they were in some meetings about the future of Curida.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e1764	I really didn't think I should take the word again, but after listening to some of the posts, I still feel that I have to do it. I now experience it so that the representatives from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV seriously underestimate Norwegian state politicians. Do the representatives of these three parties really believe that political leadership in any county municipality in Norway would have been on the back and be passive if one came under threat that a company with a minimum of 30 employees in its own county municipality was in danger of being laid down? Of course it's not like that. There must be no law to allow Norwegian state politicians to take the initiative, to ask for dialogue and to engage in dialogue with companies that consider shutting down. Let me underline once again that the law we are talking about does not apply when an enterprise has entered into debt negotiations. It is specifically stated in the law that it is only by decree that one should carry out consultations. Here's a part of the argument that I don't feel related. I have experience as a state politician myself and know that this is what we are working on, is ensuring the continuation of good businesses and maintaining jobs in our own county municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e1773	I'll be brief. That was the last post I thought could not stand undisputed. What is being seriously underestimated here is the listening statements of eleven county councils. Then there are three county councils where one has spoken against – now there are two – and one neither for nor against. Let's say it's about 90 pst. of the population of Norway living in a county municipality which has opposed the repeal of this law. The state politicians have spoken — that is the gross underestimation that is taking place in this matter — the county councils that see the value of this law. And what's special about this law is, first of all, the obligation to notify the county at the risk of closure. Secondly, the law gives the county council the right to convene the parties to the annex which have State tasks in a situation of discussion. That mandate disappeared with this change, but through that law has an explicit right to operate it in the form of discussions, calling the parties concerned to see if there may be other solutions. Then I think we're really concerned about seriously underestimating the role of county councils and state politicians in decommissioning.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e1778	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e1796	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e1803	I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in the examination of free trade agreements between the EFTA States and Indonesia. It is an overall committee which agrees to the ratification of the Free Trade Agreement. The main objective of the agreement is to stimulate increased trade, investment and economic cooperation between the parties. The World Trade Organisation is Norway’s main commercial policy priority, but Norway’s work through EFTA for the negotiation of trade agreements is an important complement to Norway’s work in the WTO. The Free Trade Agreement with Indonesia was signed a year ago, after eight years of negotiations. Norway’s main exports to Indonesia are mineral oil, seafood, electrical machinery and equipment and chemical products. The imports from Indonesia are footwear, clothing and accessories for clothing, telecommunications equipment, timber, wood, miscellaneous finished goods and electrical machinery and apparatus. The main negotiating results achieved by EFTA in the negotiations and with this agreement are that significantly improved market access has been achieved for Norwegian exports and predictability in addition to the legislation of the World Trade Organisation for, inter alia, quantitative restrictions, import licence procedures and veterinary and phytosanitary rules. Investments outside the service sector are not covered by the General Agreement on Trade in Services in the WTO. However, this free trade agreement guarantees full ownership in key sectors such as oil and gas, fish farming and paint production. The Chapter on Trade and Sustainable Development supports climate and forest cooperation, inter alia: by including extended provisions on sustainable forest management and the sustainable development of vegetable oils. For the first time in an EFTA Free Trade Agreement, a provision on sustainable management of fisheries and aquaculture is also included. Norway with our 5 million inhabitants depends on trading with a larger market. At the same time, we and our companies need to import goods for consumption or production. Good free trade agreements will then be important through EFTA cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e1816	I am pleased with the Committee's position on consent to the ratification of the Free Trade Agreement between the EFTA States and Indonesia. Negotiations with Indonesia were demanding and took place over a period of almost eight years. I am therefore very pleased with the final result. We now have a comprehensive agreement with the world's fourth most populous country. Indonesia is a large market with a growing economy and a growing middle class. It is thus an agreement that will have a high value for Norwegian businesses and jobs. The Free Trade Agreement with Indonesia must be seen in the context of the objective of establishing good conditions for trade and investment in large Asian markets. Today’s trade between Norway and Indonesia is still moderate and probably amounted to 3 billion. kr in 2018, but the growth potential is significant. Many Norwegian companies look with interest at Indonesia, and there are already a number of Norwegian companies established in Indonesia. We got a good result for trade in goods. Goods such as fertilisers, petroleum and machinery will be dutyed zero from day one after the entry into force of the Agreement. Salmon and trout will be zeroed at the latest nine years after entry into force. About 99 pst. of today's exports to Indonesia will be zero to twelve years after the entry into force of the Agreement. I am also pleased that the agreement takes good care of Norway's agricultural interests. Indonesia has been reduced in customs duties on a number of agricultural products, some goods also receive duty-free access. At the time of implementation of the Agreement, tolls granted to Indonesia by virtue of their status as developing countries, the so-called GSP scheme, will cease to exist. However, Indonesia will have better access to its exports through this Agreement than they had to the GSP scheme. For trade in services and investment, Norway succeeded in achieving a good and predictable framework for commercially important sectors. Through the agreement, Norwegian investors will be guaranteed the possibility of 100 pst. ownership of establishments in sectors such as oil and gas and fish farming. For services, the agreement provides, inter alia, for: the possibility of Norwegian majority ownership in a number of service sectors, including energy-related services and telecommunications. I am pleased that we have put in place a comprehensive chapter on trade and sustainable development. The chapter contains ambitious commitments on sustainable forest management and the production of vegetable oils. This has been a high priority in the negotiations. This is a well-balanced negotiation result. We are caring for our export interests and our need for action spaces in the field of agriculture, while Indonesia, of course, is satisfied and will ratify the agreement. The Free Trade Agreement ensures good market access for Norwegian export products. Furthermore, it contains important provisions on technical regulations, import licence procedures and food safety which will increase predictability for Norwegian export industries. It also provides predictable framework conditions for Norwegian service providers and investors.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e1841	As head of the Great Britain Asia delegation, I would like to make a few comments on this new free trade agreement with Indonesia, which was concluded at ministerial level a year ago. Asia is of increasing importance to Norway, and cooperation with ASEAN countries — an association of ten countries in Southeast Asia, including Indonesia — is particularly important. The 5th anniversary of Norway’s sectoral dialogue partnership with ASEAN will be marked next year. Over the last two years, the Asia delegation has been working to build closer relations both with ASEAN and bilaterally with Indonesia, particularly through the Interparliamentary Assembly, AIPA, where the aim is to give the Storting observer status. Among the ASEAN countries, we have already, through EFTA, free trade agreements with the Philippines and Singapore, while processes are under way with Vietnam and Malaysia. Countries as a whole are Norway’s third largest trading partner in services and the fourth largest in goods. Indonesia, with its perhaps 260 million people, is the fourth most populous state in the world. Indonesia is the largest single country in ASEAN and the largest economy in cooperation, and it is also a G20 member. Indonesia has an economy of strong growth, of about 5 pst. in 2017, and is entering the list of the world’s ten largest economies. All of this shows that Indonesia is a very attractive market, including for Norway and our partners in EFTA. Norway already has extensive bilateral cooperation with Indonesia on sustainability issues such as seas, marine pollution, rainforests, green energy solutions, women and equality, as well as on trade and investment, where the new agreement becomes particularly important. This is a comprehensive, modern trade agreement where not only customs issues are important, but how much is involved in reducing technical barriers to trade and standards, which increases the predictability of operators, which could lead to increased investment by Norwegian companies in Indonesia. The agreement is very good at market access for fish and services and also deals with intellectual assets, public procurement, sustainability and capacity building. Today, when the Storting joins the ratification of this Free Trade Agreement, there is a bright spot at a time marked by increasing protectionism and trade conflicts. Both Norway and Indonesia are open economies, and both countries are defenders of a regulated, multilateral world order. There are values that need more champions if we are to succeed in reversing a worrying geopolitical development that could threaten both international growth and stability.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e1856	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox So today's map is ready to debate. The store is now taking a break, and according to the announced agenda it will be voting at 0 p.m. 15th
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e1888	Case No. 1 and 2 are the second processing of laws and apply to Acts 8 and 9. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e1959	All in all, eleven proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's the proposals No 1-7, from Une Bastholm on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party proposal No 9, from Ingrid Heggø on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party proposal No 8, from Une Bastholm on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green and Red Environmental Party the proposals No 10 and 11, of Trygve Slagsvold Vedum on behalf of the Centre Party, There is a vote on the proposals Nos. Ten and eleven from the Center Party. Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asked to amend the regulation on country-by-country reporting in order to ensure that, where extended information is to be provided, it is granted irrespective of the materiality limit.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking for an estimate of costs, benefits and disadvantages by tightening the wording that the figures are to be taken from the annual accounts in the country-by-country reporting regulation § 4 and by requiring the main figures in the country-by-country reporting to be included as a note in the financial statements’.» [[1]] [[2]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e1996	There is a vote on proposal No. 9, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked by the autumn of 2020 to put forward concrete proposals that take account of the intention of Document 8:160 S to reduce tax evasion while at the same time taking into account other considerations such as ensuring the competitiveness of Norwegian companies, safe Norwegian jobs and avoiding unnecessary red tape.’ [[2018–2019]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e2011	There is a vote on proposal No. 8, from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government requests amendments to the regulation on country-by-country reporting to ensure that, in the context of the provision of expanded information, this is done in line with annual accounts and irrespective of the materiality limit.’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e2033	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and the proposals No. 1-7, from the Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking, pending an international framework in the OECD, for alternatives to adaptations and changes to the Norwegian tax system that are intended to prevent tax access failures to Norway, as a result of new corporate structures and business models that are to a small extent caught up in current tax rules.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to renegotiate tax agreements concluded with a view to introducing withholding taxes on royalties and interest.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to introduce withholding taxes on royalties and interest at the latest in the context of the presentation of the revised national budget 2020.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: «The government is asked to strengthen the transparency requirements for ownership and tax in public acquisitions.» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking for experience from other countries with similar ownership registers and the use of different thresholds and the determination of a threshold below 25 pst. in order to ensure that Norway is a leading country in terms of transparency and a follow-up to both the Intrinsian decision of the Storting. [[2014-2015]] 298 S and the fourth EU Laundering Directive.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to take the necessary steps, including the promotion of any necessary legislative proposals, to include the actual tax payment in the procurement law, and to make it conditional that in order to participate in a tendering process, a company must report on the amount of tax paid by the company in recent years and report on turnover, real owners and cost structure.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to investigate the Norwegian Action Space pending agreement on an international framework for fairer taxation. The investigation must include the introduction of a separate turnover tax on digital activities, as many EU countries have done or plan to do, and a reverse credit deduction to combat profit movements.’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e2088	In the course of the debate, all nine proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Siri Gåsemyr Staalesen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 2 and 3, by Heidi Greni on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 4-9, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4-9 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government requests amendments to the price regulation so that free judicial advice is granted without need testing at a unit price of 15 hours from the UDI giving advance notice and until the case is brought before the UN, if appropriate, and 20 hours for the UN treatment.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The budget asks the government in cases of withdrawal of citizenship to ensure that, in the assessment of children’s affiliation, it is assumed that three years of residence is sufficient.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to introduce a limitation period after 10 years which, after 10 years, rescinds the possibility of withdrawing a nationality under Section 26 of the Act of Citizens’ Rights.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government requests amendments to the legislation which ensure that the parties must be made aware of all the facts and arguments before the case is to be brought before UNE so that they have the opportunity to address them in advance, if any, and have an unconditional opportunity to present their own witnesses.’;» [[full contrast]] Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to amend the legislation so that a person may retain his or her citizenship in a revocation case for as long as he or she brings the case before the courts after a specified period.’;» Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to the Grand Duchy with proposals for a definition of statelessness in the law and for proposing a separate procedure for the determination of statelessness as a basis for residence.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e2145	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked by the Grand Duchy to clarify in the legislative text that the sibling should be treated in the same way as in the case of withdrawals of citizenship.’;» Proposal No. 3 reads:’‘The decision asks the government to decide on the introduction of a period of time from the time when advance notice of withdrawal of citizenship has been sent until a matter has been settled before the foreign authorities of the first instance.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e2166	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a proposal to amend the Civil Code so that the revocation of citizenship under paragraph 26 shall take place before the Court of First Instance.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e2282	The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced subsidiary support for the vote. – That means everyone has to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e2292	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e2303	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. Furthermore, the following were set: B. The majority asks the Government to return to the Stortinget with proposals on how to design the right to free movement of goods in revocation cases with a view to giving free movement of goods in the revocation proceedings as a general rule.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e2314	The Greens and Reds have announced support for the vote. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e2330	My voice was not registered.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e2335	I did not vote, because I did not understand what to vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e2340	Then we'll take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e2359	A total of eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Masud Gharakhani on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Heidi Greni on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 3-8, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3-8, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: «The government is asked to propose that the au pairs be protected by the Working Environment Act or by other protective provisions in the hours they work.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: «The Government asks the Government to propose that the au pairer's residence permit be linked to the au pairer and not to the host family.» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to assess a lower age limit for au pair.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government requests either to remove the fee for changing the host family or to impose the fee on the host family that has breached the contract.’;» Proposal No. 7 sounds: «The government is asked to submit proposals requiring the host family to document participation in compulsory courses.» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The size of the scheme requires the government to tighten up the rules so that the default of the host family results in exclusion from the scheme.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e2416	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks it to propose changes to the law requiring minors to be in the host family.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e2433	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to start work on completing today’s au pair scheme and to set up a new system to ensure the purpose of cultural exchange and to ensure that participants are not exploited.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e2457	The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e2515	During the debate, Mr Knag Fylkesnes presented a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 6 June 2008 38 on the obligation to notify in the event of termination of advertising is amended as follows: [[Transitional Act]] Paragraph 2, second paragraph, is replaced by the following: The law does not apply if the enterprise is managed by law of 8 June 1984 No. 58 on debt negotiation and bankruptcy.» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e2560	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e2572	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e2587	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e2606	The Green Party has announced its support for the vote. Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e2622	There are several votes that were not registered. Let's do the voting again.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-03.ana.ud491e2677	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
