ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e28	The called alternate of the Hordaland County, Leif Audun Sande, now takes the seat. The representative of Marit Knutsdatter Strand will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e38	On behalf of the representatives Kjersti Toppe, Liv Signe Navarsete, Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen and myself, I would like to make a proposal that the goal promise will apply to student relations.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e43	The representative, Sverre Myrli, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e48	On behalf of Kirsti Leirtrø, Hadia Tajik, Arild Grande and myself, I would like to propose measures for safer transport on Norwegian roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e53	The representative, Freddy André Øvstegård, will present two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e58	I am delighted to present two representative proposals that are important to people at home in Eastfold and many other places. The first is a proposal on behalf of the representatives of Kari Elisabeth Kaski, Arne Nävra and myself to open up passenger and freight services on the eastern line of the Eastfold Railway to Sarpsborg. The second is a proposal on behalf of the representatives of Mona Fagerås, Karin Andersen and myself on the cultural school for all.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e67	The representative of Mona Fagerås will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e72	I would like to make a proposal for free school food to everyone on behalf of the big business representatives Sheida Sangtarash, Freddy André Øvstegård, Kari Elisabeth Kaski and myself.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e78	The representative, Sandra Borch, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e83	On behalf of the big business representatives Heidi Greni, Ole André Myhrvold, Geir Pollestad, Marit Knutsdatter Strand and myself, I would like to make a proposal for a more efficient predator management.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e88	The representative, Arne Nävra, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e93	On behalf of the representatives of Lars Haltbrecken, Olivia Corso Salles and myself, I would like to make a proposal to improve the preparedness of cruise traffic in Norwegian waters.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e98	The representative of the Bears Moxnes will present two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e103	I will, on behalf of myself, Øystein Langholm Hansen and Siv Mossleth propose equal access to communications services throughout the country, and I wish to deal with that proposal in accordance with § 39(c). In addition, on behalf of myself, I would like to make a proposal on government wage reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e110	The representative, Martin Henriksen, will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e115	On behalf of the representatives Jorodd Asphjell, Torstein Tvedt Solberg, Nina Sandberg and myself, I would like to make a proposal for a better and more effective teacher training. And on behalf of the representatives of Jorodd Asphjell, Torstein Tvedt Solberg, Nina Sandberg, Hadia Tajik, Arild Grande, Eigil Knutsen, Siri Gåsemyr Staalesen, Jonas Gahr Støre and myself, I would like to make a proposal for a broad reform of labour skills.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e122	The representative, Bengt Fasterale, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e127	On behalf of the representatives of Siv Mossleth, Heidi Greni, Willfred Nordlund and myself, I would like to make a proposal for a State maintenance programme for the county road network.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e132	The representative of Espen Barth Eide will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e138	On behalf of representatives Jonas Gahr Støre, Else-May Botten Norderhus, Runar Seestad and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on Norwegian investment in the marine wind industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e143	The representative, Kjersti Toppe, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e148	I would like to make a proposal on behalf of Siv Mossleth, Marit Knutsdatter Strand, Geir Inge Lien, Per Olaf Lundtägen and myself to wind up the health care model and take hospitals back to elected government and public administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e153	The representative of Une Bastholm will put forward three proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e158	On behalf of myself, and on behalf of 94 788 voters, I would like to make three proposals: one on cleaner air in cities and agglomerations, one on child-friendly urban and urban transport and one on sustainable modern freedom of movement through reduced car traffic.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e163	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e179	On Monday, the Stortinge received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State Jan Tore Sanner, Monica Mæland and Harald T. Nesvik will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We start with the first main questions, from the representative, Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e188	The question is to the Minister of Knowledge. The right was obviously concerned about what happened at the People's House this weekend. The Labour Party adopted, inter alia: that we will introduce a simple, healthy Norwegian meal to all students. We do that because it gives better public health, better learning and evening out differences. One in seven students does not bring food packages at school. So in a class of 30 students, there are four people who go hungry through the day. That's why the Workers' Party wants school food for everyone. When this question of school food comes up, the government or the Right would like to say something positive about food. They say it's nice that the municipalities will implement this themselves, if they choose to do so, but there's enormous distance between words and action here. The Court’s national meeting said no to any proposal for school food, including that municipalities should be able to do so on a voluntary basis. In Stortinget they vote against. The truth is, as long as the government doesn't give one dollar to school food, all they offer is Norwegian students, empty calories. Yesterday, in political quarters, the Minister of Health asked what they wanted to do against social health differences. Then the Minister of Health said that one of the most important things you can do is help those who fall out of school. The Institute of Public Health says that the most important measure against health inequalities is school food. It's one of the things you can do that's simple, effective and effective for everyone. The government keeps saying that they're just as busy fighting differences as we are on the left-hand side. Then my question is: why does one then say no to get started with measures that would have so much to say to just equalize social differences?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e199	I can confirm what the representative said, namely that when the question of school food comes up, the Right says that food is important. What this question is really about, is what the state is going to spend money on. If we're going to spend 1.6 billion. kr, which is what the Workers' Party has proposed, from state resources in schools, is the other issue that the government will give priority to than subsidising food. I think this is a question that should be discussed locally. We know there are big local differences. There may also be differences between schools within a municipality. Then there is a question that should be discussed at the school, which should be discussed in the municipality, and if it is that the school and the municipality believe that food should be provided either when the students arrive at the school, or a common meal should be provided during school hours, then that is a priority for the municipalities. This boils down to what we're going to spend the state money for. I noticed that when the Workers' Party was going to discuss the school at their national meeting, food and SFO were taken up. We're busy with the good teacher. We are engaged in a historical continuing education promise for the teachers. We are dedicated to renewing the content of the school. When we first think about differences, it's true that there are differences, but the main task of the school is to make sure that the differences students can't do anything about, the background, the length of parental education, are differences that the school has to compensate for. Food is important, but there is a question the municipality can decide on.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e208	At the National Labour Party meeting, we discussed both quality in SFO and how all students should learn to read, write and calculate, and we discussed school food. The Council of State and the Right are very concerned about what money is spent on – well, let me just remind you that at their national meeting, the Right decided that there is a goal to liquidate the property tax. It'll cost about 14 billion. kr. At the National Labour Party meeting, we agreed that we would have free school food for all students. It costs between 1.5 billion. NOK and above 2 billion. kr. Then people can choose for themselves what constitutes the greatest difference in their lives. The right has chosen more for the millionaires, the Workers' Party chooses food for the students. It does not help the children who go to school without a lunch package that the Right believes that the food package is something the parents are responsible for lubricating, or saying that no, we can't do anything about it, because there are differences between municipalities. The right obviously believes that school food is not important enough. It's like being in the questionnaire is a little bit like being in the school day. Then I want to ask the Council of State: when the Council of State is going to prepare for the crisis, does he do the best on empty stomach or with food in his body?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e215	– Of course with food in the body, so is all of us. But what this question boils down to is what we're going to spend the state money for. I trust that the municipalities, which are close to the inhabitants, who are responsible for the schools, can find good solutions. In Stortinget, we should discuss what we're going to bet on in the core areas of school, and if you're going to spend 1, 5, 2 or 3 billion. kr at school, I am convinced that there are other things we can bet on nationally that will deliver greater and better results for all students than spending government money on food. And then I realize that one of the things we read out of the National Labour Party meeting was that you're more concerned with spending money than you are with creating the values. It is one of the major lines of conflict in Norwegian policy. While the government parties are concerned that we have to create before we can use, the National Labour Party meeting became a national meeting where it was to make the most of money.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e224	There will be follow-up questions – first Ingvild Kjerkol.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e229	A simple school meal gives good nutrition, it gives good learning, and it's social, generic, to sit down together. I feel that the Council of State also believes. So the Council of State answers that there are major local differences. Yes, for us in the Workers' Party, that's exactly what is the reason why the state is going to spend money on it, that all children, not just those who have a municipality that has prioritised it, are going to have a single school meal. In fact, in the government there are several people who agree with us in the Workers' Party. The Minister of Public Health answered questions in the UK earlier this year that she sees extra challenges in balancing social differences in school, and especially young boys in high school don't eat lunch. She replied very clearly that she would mention this in the public health report, which was submitted before the weekend. Then I almost have to ask the Minister of Knowledge: was it the Minister of Knowledge who stopped the Minister of Public Health so that there is no school food for all children?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e236	There is a big difference between mentioning the importance of a good diet in public health and using 1, 2 or 3 billion. on the government budget for school food. I think we all in this room – and I hope most of the others too – agree that food is important and that good diet is important. Not least for those children who have not eaten lunch, or who do not bring food packages at school, it is important to make this right. Therefore, my clear advice is that this must be discussed at school, this must be discussed with the parents, because it is basically the responsibility of the parents, and it should be discussed in the municipality. If it's true that there are schools where there are children who don't bring food at school, or have not eaten lunch, it should be arranged, but it's not said that we're going to spend billions of dollars on government budgets to bet on school food. Then there are other things that are more important to the students at school.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e241	Ingrid Kjerkol – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e246	I'm recording that for the Council of State, these great local differences that he himself describes are totally okay. It is not important for the Right that all children receive the same offer at school. As for the Minister of Public Health, she was pressured a little by another representative, Karin Andersen, to see if they really meant it, and whether school food was going to come in as a clear measure in the public health report. Then the Minister of Public Health said, "We have a plan, we're going to clearly raise this, and it's going to be a top priority." Now that the message has been presented and we see that it is not a reality, it is not so strange that I ask whether it is the Minister of Knowledge and the Right who has received the last word, whether these are the ideological priorities that have emerged. Because, as the council says, it's 14 pst. by our kids who don't bring food at school.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e254	This has very little to do with ideology, but there are questions about what we're going to spend the state money for. I worry that there are a lot of students who leave primary school without being able to read, write and calculate. We know that what matters is whether the students go to high school, if they finish, is that they have good teachers, that we're betting on good teacher training, that we're betting on continuing education. In order to give priority to the state funds at school, it is a good teacher's commitment, a historic promise of further education. But I notice that the priority of the Workers' Party is food. It's very nice, but I think it's a question that can be discussed in the municipalities. And it can't be that everything we think is important, we're going to spend state money on. We must also have confidence that local politicians can find good solutions. Yes, I'm concerned with differences, but I also trust that our local politicians, whether from the Labour Party or the Right, can find good local solutions in their municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e259	Kjersti Top – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e264	The first government of the Sanner government did when they came to power in 2013, was to remove free fruit and green and use the money to expand the tax-free quota. On Friday, we received a public health report. It was disappointing reading, with few measures and many good wishes. It was otherwise presented by the Minister of Public Health at Coyo tequilabar here in Oslo. It's a little bit special. We have big social differences in Norway, and they're increasing. To be able to reverse that trend, we need to use the school as a pre-convention arena. It's especially when the council talks about government money and municipal money, because it's a public responsibility to reduce social health differences in Norway. It must appear locally how to have a school meal, but it must be financed. Does the Council not see that schooling is an important national measure to reduce social health inequalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e271	I am a little surprised if it is such that the Center Party believes that lunch and lunch are a public responsibility. It is basically the responsibility of parents to provide food for their children. So we know that there are some kids who haven't eaten lunch when they go to school, we know that there are some kids who don't bring food packages at school. Then it is important to find solutions at school, in the municipality. This is a question of what we're going to spend the state money on, how we're going to raise all the students, how we're going to make sure that all the students learn to read, write and calculate. I believe there are other questions that are more important to spend the state money on. Then we must have confidence in local politicians – and I also thought the Centre Party had – that local politicians can find good local solutions in their municipality. If the children do not bring school food, or have not eaten lunch, the municipality should find solutions at school, without needing to spend state money on school food.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e280	Mona Fagerås – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e285	First of all, it is appropriate to congratulate the Workers' Party on their new decisions – and carefully welcome the party after. No batches have been as high on the track in the case of school food as SV. While the other parties just laughed at us when we wanted to introduce school food, we introduced free fruit to the high school students in Norway. When the other parties now signal that they are on the loose in this matter, of course we are happy about it. Nutrition is incredibly important for learning. Children need to replenish nutrition in order to be able to work, learn and deliver. I believe that we must give priority to this from the state. The children and society have changed. If we are to meet the challenges we face today, we need to look at how the school should contribute and how the minister can contribute. Does the Minister really think that such an essential public health measure – which is also positive for children’s learning and well-being – should be left entirely to the municipalities alone?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e292	No, not to the municipalities alone, also to the parents – I think it is a parental responsibility to make sure that the children eat lunch. It is a parental responsibility to make sure that the children bring food at school. But when the parents don't, it's important that the school set up and that the municipality set up. Think about SV – and also the Workers' Party – had shown the same commitment to children's learning as what is done for school food, so that we focus on continuing education, competent teachers, more teachers, who can see all children and make sure that they learn to read, write and calculate! We might have had the world's best school if you had managed to show the same commitment to school education – and not just school food.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e299	Mona Fagerås – for follow-up questions
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e304	For SV, it is important to find out how all children can learn, succeed and thrive, and a common meal during the school day affects students’ learning, diet and environment. It shows research. A national offer may compensate for differences. Social health inequalities in Norway are increasing and increasing in several other countries in Europe. One of the authorities’ stated objectives is to reverse these developments and to balance the differences. The Public Health Institute's job is to contribute knowledge, including: on the functioning of public health measures. Camilla Stoltenberg, director of the Public Health Institute, mentions free school food as an example of an action that will work. What does the Minister of Knowledge think about the professional advice that comes from the Institute of Public Health, and is this what he sees can be followed up further in cooperation with the Minister of Health?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e311	I agree with the technical advice. It is important that your children are well - fed and that you eat both lunch and lunch. That's not what this is about. When we make the state budget and have 2 billion. NOK at our disposal after we've spent money on some other things, the question is whether we're going to spend the 2 billion. kr on a national school food scheme, or whether we are going to apply it to other school interventions, such as: several teachers, more continuing education and training, measures that can contribute to the completion and existence of more than one secondary school. I believe that these are the measures that we must take nationally, and then we must have confidence that our local politicians – whether they come from SV, the Workers' Party, the Right, the Centre Party or the Progress Party – prioritise this in their municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e316	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e322	We've got a new municipal minister. But it was a wonderful experience to be at the municipal summit yesterday, because when Monica Mæland had her inception, she was going to run new rounds of municipal mergers: new neighboring talks, new investigations, new processes, new bonanzas for Norwegian consultants and conference hotels – and that when we know that the costs of the process that the previous municipal minister started in 2017, according to professionals were about 5 billion. kr. [[Laughter]] It is a violent cost driver who has not created better services. Some time ago, the parliamentary leaders of the Stortinget received a letter signed by the Right-Women Anette Solli, who is head of the common denominator for the Viking, who writes directly that the new Week is going to be so expensive, so difficult and so resource-intensive that she is afraid it can go beyond the services if they don't get more money from the state. So centralization is more expensive and less expensive, and it's signed by Right Anette Solli. So, when Monica Meland had gone, Trine Skei came to Grande and was very encouraging and a little moralizing to all the rapporteurs. Then she spoke of all the small municipalities as cos clubs, and these cos clubs around Norway, Trine Skei Grande, would end. If you take these so-called co-clubs, the municipalities with less than 5,000 inhabitants, it's working in excess of 50,000 workers. And there's not much cos club for the assistant who's going to drive out in the winter storm on the coast of North Norway, or when you have the nurturing patient that you have to help evening, night after night. It's not cos club, it's hard work, and it's amazing that the government mentions some of the most important welfare work we have in Norway, like a cos club. Then there is more cos club to sit in government than being an assistant nurse, for example. a hard winter night out in Norwegian nature. So my question to the Council of State Monica Meland is, how long will the government drive to initiate such costly, expensive processes that the people don't want?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e335	First of all, I was not aware that we had a new municipal minister. In that case, someone has forgotten to inform me about it. But it is absolutely right that I am concerned with municipal reform, and we are now going from 422 municipalities this year to 356 next year. That's good -- it gives larger units, it gives more robust municipalities. And what we know from municipal mergers before the municipal reform is that the municipalities that merge have decentralised services. We need home help and home care regardless of the municipality size. That is precisely why the combination of municipalities is important: we still need to have a service offer throughout the country. We also know that the municipalities that join each other have a larger room for action. Unlike the representative, I am very concerned, because after 1 January it is still that half of the municipalities will have less than 5000 inhabitants, and 120 municipalities will have less than 3000. It's not sustainable. You can do it like the Center Party: lean back and think about it going over. It doesn't go away – it's the way we see an ageing population all over the country. We see fewer young people, we see a municipal map where everyone has to fight for the same resources and the same wise minds. Then it's not like if you're a newly educated person, you're dreaming about moving to a place where you're the only one working in the Child Welfare Service, where you don't have any colleagues, where you can't be sick – where you're totally dependent on you being at work. I don't think young people think that way, and I think the fight for skilled labour is going to increase. When I travel around, I see that things are going very well in District Norway. But the concern of councillors, of local government representatives and of rapporteurs is: how is this going to proceed? Then the answer is larger administrative units that are able to attract skills, so that we can have home care, have home help, have up-to-date plans. Because that's really what I was talking about yesterday – having plans that invite you to create value, to create jobs and to settle in the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e346	Here, the Council of State actually says outright: larger administrative units. You can see the experience with Viken. There's become a lot more administration, there's been a lot more cost, and right locally in the area is asking for more money from Stortinget because it's becoming more expensive and more demanding, and they're afraid it's going beyond the service provision to people. It is the so-called modernisation with which the government operates, it is bureaucratic. There has been a huge process in Norwegian municipalities, it has cost a lot of money, but the government does not – they are going to push a new round that is very costly and that people do not want. And then it's strange that Monica Mæland can't distance herself from Trine Skei Grande's statement that there are koseclubs in Norwegian municipalities when there are less than 5,000 inhabitants, and that it's a cos club to run like home nurses, home help, teachers, kindergarten teachers around Norwegian municipalities every single day. They make a huge effort, and Norway is complex as it is, with great distances. Therefore, we must have nursing homes, schools and basic services close to where people live, and then professionals must be recruited to their own local environment. Why does the Right want to spend so much tax money one more time to start a process that people don't want?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e353	First of all, I would say that I have an incredible respect for all those who work in home care and are home help around the country. I have good experience in it, and there's a huge job in the town and the city of all the employees. To them I do not need to do anything but send a big thanks and regards. So it's not like I've had some experience with the Week. Neither does the staging representative. So the bay isn't established. However, it is not unnatural that the Centre Party, long before its establishment, has already evaluated a regional reform – a regional reform that will give the regions more tools, more power and more influence. We're going to decentralize tasks – we're going to move tasks from the departments, from the directorates and out to the elected bodies. It would be thought that this was something that the Central Party applauded, that local elected representatives had a greater influence on the policy of competence, on industrial policy, on public health policy and in many other areas. This is therefore the largest structural and task reform in this country since the county was established. What the Center Party is longing for is a municipal map and a county map adapted as we lived 50 years ago. I can't.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e360	There will be follow-up questions – first Tryful Battle Violence Vedum.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e365	I understand that right-wing women and state councillor Monica Mæland want to push the centre party in front of them in the demanding merger process that the Vikings are. But it is not we who have described the challenges with the Vikings, it is the Right's own county rapporteur, who writes in a letter to the parliamentary leaders of the Stortinget that coordinating the three counties gives significant societal, economic and cultural differences. It's a resource-intensive, complicated and politically very demanding work, and they're afraid it's going beyond the services of people. It's the right local that writes, and it's the right national that has forced through a reform that nobody wants. That's the problem. The rhetoric of the Right has been that this should create more efficiency, better services, but reality is the opposite. Now the county house is being built around Norway for billions of dollars. It's really exciting to make this work. Why is it that the local Right People now describe this process as very expensive, while the Council of State stands here and paints it?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e372	I haven't painted anything. I'm not pushing the Center Party in front of me. I quoted what the representative said. He said we've seen the effects of the Viking. You don't have that at all. The fold is not yet established. It's under construction. I have a lot of understanding that it's demanding. But I have to say that pushing the government in front of itself in the regional reform is a little special. For the representative knows very well that it was not an initiative that came from the government. It came from Stortinget. You can like or dislike the majority in this Chamber, but it is now our National Assembly that has decided that we should have three levels of government, that we should have a structural change adapted to the time we live in, that we should have more power and influence, that we should have more tasks, and that we should have a forward-looking county municipality that can take on the seriousness of the challenges they face. It's not a beauty painting. That's a statement of fact. It's demanding right now, but I'm absolutely sure we're going to see much more forward-looking and modern county municipalities when they're established and when they get their job done – before we evaluate them, because we don't do that before they start up.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e379	Willfred Nordlund – to follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e384	I noticed with interest that the Council of State said that the municipalities that have joined forces have observed a larger room for action. The letter from Anette Solli from the Right and Week in general shows something different. But over to the municipalities: the Council of State considered yesterday at the municipal summit, at the latest, that the competition for warm hands attracts fewer municipalities. So it has to be automatically that only fewer municipalities have to have more warm hands and more employees in care. It's at least a very special problem. According to the government, people don't want to work in the small municipalities, but they want to work at the same physical meeting place only the municipalities have got a new name and have grown bigger. Large distances are something we have a lot of in Norway, you can't get away from it, no matter how much the government here tries to explain the opposite. If the right-hand-steered municipality of Bø in the Vesterålen – where you have a Right-hand rapporteur – were to be merged, it would therefore become more robust. Is it that it is easier to recruit to the same nursing home in Bø if the municipality gets a new name than it is today?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e393	I think we need new administratively larger units. And then I think the representative has to take a walk into the municipalities, it's not like all municipal employees are coming up at the same place, it's been a very long time since it happened. When I referred to analyses that have been carried out, they were made by municipalities that merged before the municipal reform. Of course, you have a decentralised service offer. The home health care must be where people live. We also have lots of intermunicipal cooperation. I hear that all talk very much about – a lot of intercommunal cooperation. Cooperation on fire services, child protection, procurement and digitisation is not a matter of cooperation on a town hall and a councillor. I think larger units will be good, there's a lot better with four at work in a child's protection than two. Nor do we have 422 fire services – which are very important for preparedness in this country – we have about 250, because we cooperate on it. This does not mean centralizing where people meet, centralizing where the job is done – it is done where people live – but getting larger units that are better able to attract skills. A number of sites include: in North Norway, some councillors say that they work almost «undercover» in cooperation with the municipalities next to them.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e400	Willfred Nordlund – to follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e406	This is a little special, people still live spread throughout the country. Let's take Training Municipality: It's not like there's more people coming up at work just because if Coach might get beat up with Mo in Rana. There's still 500 people living there, they're still going to have those services, and there's still so much geographical distance that they still have to have a local service. There will be no more colleagues to go to work with, for example. Train municipality. This is a relationship that affects many other places in Norway; there will be no more colleagues at work. I am perfectly aware that the employees meet in different places. The point is that if the hospital is to remain in the hospital, the only thing you change is who's on the employer's side. But what you take away is the proximity to the ministry, the proximity to the local knowledge and the proximity to the administrative unit that is actually going to make sure that our citizens get good services here. So local knowledge hasn't gone out of hand, even though this government thinks it's the opposite. Why is it that we are really going to force this country by removing more municipal borders? That's what the government wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e411	Firstly, we should not force this country to become a centralized country. If you heard about yesterday, I encouraged the municipalities to talk to their neighbor. I encourage the municipalities to put important services on the agenda, for example. Ask yourself, ‘ Do we have a good enough school, we have a good enough child protection, do we have a good enough service? ’ Why do the municipalities not have up-to-date plans? There are plans for housing and industrial development, many municipalities have plans that are more than 15 years old. It's not because they don't want to, it's because they don't have the capacity. If the representative is right, that's the good question: why do municipalities all over the world engage in extensive inter-municipal cooperation whose size doesn't matter, whose capacity doesn't matter, if having colleagues and developing competences doesn't matter? Why do we cooperate in all areas except around a town hall and a councilman? The representative must answer that if it is that way that cooperation is completely uninteresting. In the new Kinn municipality they will have 15 employees in the flat section, today Vågsøy has one.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e418	Eirik Sivertsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e423	It is alarming to hear that the Council of State is trying to push the bulk of the population in front of it. This mass mass actually is behind this government. I assume that the Council of State also agrees with the policy of its own majority and not only tries to say that it is something that is being put on ‘us’. What the Council of State does not address in the discussion we have today is the question of competence. I agree with the Council of State in its concern: do we have enough competence? In fact, in some municipalities we control a lack of skills, a crisis of competence, because the important thing is not the administrative units – it's the production of services. When we know that we will lack several thousand teachers to respond to the need we have, the municipal reform will not respond to it. When we know that we lack nurses, lawyers and engineers, yes, the answer is not to change the structure – it's to educate more people. What we haven't heard is, what will the Council of State do to ensure that we recruit enough skills through education?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e430	Of course, this is related to how many we train, but you can't decide in a municipal hall or a big hall where people will live. People have to move somewhere. People have to be left somewhere. Of course, it's related to training more teachers, training more nurses – and we do – but you have to attract the skills you need to get the young, the newly educated to want to live somewhere. Then it's my claim – and I know what comes from a place where a lot of people want to move home again, but don't do it because you don't get a job, or not enough exciting work, or not a job for two – that you have to have municipalities that are able to attract competent labour, which are able to plan for housing, investment and employment, because this is related. That's why you need new administrative units. I'm saying it very clearly, because some people think we're going to remove places from the map. We don't have to. We need to create new units – just as we have inter-municipal cooperation on a number of services, so we need to cooperate more closely in the municipality but have decentralised services.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e435	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e440	Last Thursday, there were figures from Nav showing that the government's cuts in redundancy payments resulted in 3,100 more people receiving social assistance in 2018. That's dramatic numbers. So the government has put people who have health problems, who are unemployed, on the ground – before they are healthy, before they have been told whether they can come back to work, or should have had a disability. The government saves at the expense of those who have difficulty. While the government – without blinking and without a single reason – managed to give the 0.1 pst. The richest and strongest in this country, 1.4 billion. SEK in tax bills, so you have to save at the expense of those who are struggling with health and do not have a job. You systematically cut the safety net for people who have problems. It turns out that last year there was an increase in the use of social assistance of 500 million. kr, and there'll be more, because people don't get well from getting poor – they get sicker. What happens is that the government takes the income from people and leaves it to the municipalities and social welfare – and its use is increasing dramatically now. The municipalities get the responsibility, and that's a lot of money. Then the question is, will the government now compensate the municipalities, so that they can afford to make sure that people have money for rent and food in the refrigerator, and not cut in the elderly care and other services because the government is going to save with such an unsocial reform?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e449	The starting point is that we spend more money than ever. We're not saving, we're spending more money than ever to help people in general. As for the question of retirement and disability, I leave it to the Minister of Labour to answer. But I can assure you that the municipalities have had good income over the years we have been in government. It has been about the same level as when SV was in government. The results also show that the municipalities are doing well. You have good results; we have a record low number on the ROBEK list. So we're not going to change the municipal budget now, mid-year. We don't have any reason to do that. This is well managed by the municipalities. As far as social assistance is concerned, it is the responsibility of municipalities. Social assistance is a temporary benefit – we know – that varies in time and place. On average, those who need social assistance are on it for five months. We have not received any enquiries from the KS, for example, which would be natural in such a context, when the representative Andersen draws this gloomy picture of Kommune-Norge as she does, and in which I do not know myself at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e458	To the media, KS says they expect the government to compensate for this. It is not only in terms of redundancy payments that the government has now provided for many fewer. In the case of housing aid, for which the municipal minister is also responsible, there are 35 000 fewer people now receiving housing support. It also appears to be social assistance in municipalities. It seems not least in the private economy to some of those who have it the most difficult. This means that, despite the fact that the boot poisons have increased, and that those who receive housing receive a smaller proportion of their boot poisons now than before, they must also go to the municipalities and ask for social assistance if they are not to be put on a barbed hill. This is completely systematic. Now it looks as if the government is tightening up its responsibility for the disadvantaged and shifting responsibility to the municipal sector. Will the government not compensate the municipalities for anything for the increased responsibility they now receive?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e465	The housing support is important, I mean, and it's accurate. It shall meet those who are disadvantaged in the housing market. Therefore, over the years we have been sitting, the government has strengthened the housing support. We're adjusting the cost. We have strengthened housing for families with children because we give priority to families with children. We have allowed ourselves to become permanent residents who have been in transition. We've made sure that the minimum pensioners who got a little more pension in the state budget do not lose their housing support. Finally, we also reinforced housing support due to increased electricity costs. These are accurate and important arrangements. Fewer sheep, which include: because we have new digital solutions that allow up-to-date data to be used for income. It's important, because what we've been experiencing for many years is that many people have been unjustly receiving housing support. You've used older numbers, and then you've had to pay them back. It puts this group in a very difficult situation, and we don't want that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e472	There will be follow-up questions – first Karin Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e478	What is true is that the housing support has not been adjusted, so that the large gap that has arisen has not been re-established. And then the housing support is now so accurate that we've seen a number of shocking things this winter, where the underprivileged and retarded risks of being thrown out of their homes, because they don't get housing support anymore with the tight rules we have now. We also have a law that allows municipalities to take the so-called rent, the market price of rental. We have seen cases in several municipalities where people with developmental disabilities who do not receive housing support and who are rented together are at risk of being put on the street. Will the Council of State be with SV and change the rules, so that those with disability – and young people, including the new ones – get housing support? And will you change the rental law, so that the municipalities now have to stop taking the rent but pursue social housing policies, so that this group can be safe?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e485	The things I've seen about the rent of gangs were in the Municipality of Oslo, and then I see that the representative doesn't trust that SV's local politicians can conduct a good and social housing policy, but that we have to do it by the state. I disagree. It is the responsibility of municipalities to determine the level of rental of municipal dwellings. Then it's our responsibility to assist, so that disadvantaged people with low income get housing support. We'll take that responsibility. If you're dissatisfied with the way the municipalities do this, you should talk to their own people, who actually run the Municipality of Oslo, where this case comes from.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e490	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e495	This is quite alarming, that the state council that is responsible for housing does not know that this is happening in many municipalities. The question here is: Is it right to have a law that allows those who want to secure housing for the most disadvantaged to take market rental in practice? I've been talking to my own in Oslo, we've stopped it. But the problem is that the possibility lies there, and when the government now systematically pushes the expenses of people who have it difficult to do, to the municipalities, and they have to finance all of this in social assistance, then the municipalities are looking for new income opportunities. SV and I believe that the State should take greater responsibility for social housing policy, including: through housing support, and also through a regulatory framework to, for example: persons with developmental disabilities shall be able to live safely with their social security and housing support and a regulation which enables them not to exceed their responsibilities. This happens in many municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e500	I don't think it's surprising that I have much more confidence in local politicians than what SV has. In most municipalities, there is a level of rent adapted to the reality we live in, which means that most people live both safely and well. That's reality out there. Then there are examples of municipalities taking too much rent. It is the responsibility of the municipalities to answer for it. It is not that we should assume responsibility in all places where we disagree with the municipality. Then it's the state's responsibility to secure housing support. That's what the state does, and we've also strengthened the housing support. There are more families with children than ever before who get housing support. It is an important contribution to disadvantaged people in the housing market. The municipalities have their responsibility, we have ours, and I am a member of trusting local politicians.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e507	Anne Sandum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e512	I think the answer from the State Council of Malta is a bit creepy and I wish she could give a real answer to the question asked by the representative Karin Andersen. Although some others have come into the housing support system, there are a lot of people who have fallen out of it. That's a problem. That's what's going on here. The problem is that the government is pushing costs away and over to the municipalities. Here I would like a clear response from the State Council of Malta: Can the Council of State guarantee that she will provide a special compensation to cover all the increased expenditure of the municipalities in the budget for 2020?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e519	I can answer a very clear no to that. Of course we're not going to do that. We have an income system for the municipalities with which the municipalities are satisfied, with which the state is satisfied, and with which the KS is satisfied. We're going to follow that up in next year's budget too, without giving the representative the details about it. It's actually not done yet. I can also say that there will not be any state regulation on which levels of rental can be determined by the municipalities. It would be going back 50 years in time. We have a well-functioning housing market and rental market. The municipalities take great responsibility for the disadvantaged, and so does the state. I trust that the municipalities will take a rent that will cover the costs actually incurred by the municipalities. It is not that the municipalities take responsibility for state expenditure. That's not the way the system is. That's how we transfer 31 billion. kr more to the municipalities today than when we joined in 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e526	Heidi Greni – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e531	I hear that the Council of State still says we have an adventurous community economy, and that it has never done so well before. To put it that way, at the municipal summit yesterday, we got a different impression. The Ex-State Council of Søviknes is now back in the real world, and he criticised his own government, where he said that the bet that was not prioritised created a big expectation gap, and that the tight economy had no room for extra expenditure. So there was no swirling. The SV representative has clearly explained the significance of the redundancy payments that have now been transferred to the social budget for the municipalities. We've been in for housing support; it's a huge expense that's been transferred to the municipalities. We can follow up on expenses for refugees. There has been a great deal of work in repatriating refugees, but many of them are unable to get to work and get into the social budget for health or other reasons. Does the Council have a plan for this to be compensated and an overview of the total costs?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e540	Has the representative heard me say that the local economy is adventurous? I don't think I've ever used that expression. I know the community economy well. I've been a municipal politician for many years, and I know it's hard to carve municipal budgets together. What I've said is that the municipalities have had a good income development. The representative says that the economy is tight. Well, it's at about the same level as when the Center Party put in government, so in that case it's a striking verdict on its own policy. In addition, many municipalities have had good disposable income in the form of both tax income and a marine fund that benefits municipalities. So it's the municipalities that have to give priority to their responsibilities, and it's not that we state areas when we're dissatisfied with how individual municipalities handle them. We have elections every four years, and if you are not satisfied with the job that is being done, both local government representatives, depositors and government can be replaced. That's not how you roll expenses over to the municipalities. That's how we have cost keys that take over the actual situation in each municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e548	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e553	Last week, a new report from Telemarksforskning showed that today’s grant model for pensions for private kindergartens is a bit shy. They have received a grant of 13 pst in recent years. the wage costs of municipal kindergartens, regardless of what the nursery has incurred from the real cost of retirement. The report shows that in 2017 a total of 94 pst. of all private kindergartens a grant exceeding the actual costs. In total, around one billion tax dollars were too much transferred to private kindergartens only that year. At the same time, we know, from the SSB, that the profits for the private kindergartens landed in 1.2 billion. kr the same year, and of that, the owners took out about 1 billion. kr through group contributions, i.e. money – our tax money – that is brought up into the group, away from the children, away from the kindergartens and over to the owners. The current system does not have just too high a pension rate. The problem is also that it rewards the owners who have the worst pension schemes because they get a larger profit the lower the pension they give their employees. Sees the Council of State that the introduction of a pension grant of 13 pst. has there been a gift package for the owners of private kindergartens that several commercials have exploited? And does the Council of State plan to propose concrete changes to today's system, and if so which?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e562	What's so neat about the representative of Moxnes is that he doesn't hide what he wants. The purpose of Red's argument against private kindergartens is to remove private kindergartens. There we have a fundamental disagreement. I believe that the private – and the ideal – kindergartens are important to ensure diversity, to ensure good kindergartens for children and to ensure that parents have an freedom of choice. And there is no doubt that the private kindergartens have been – and are – important to ensure a good and equivalent offer. It is also true that the regulation of the private kindergartens during the period of expansion of the kindergarten sector is not entirely appropriate to a time when the nursery sector has been expanded. Therefore, the government has taken the initiative to review the framework conditions for private kindergartens. The reports to which the representative, Mr Moxnes, refers are the Ministry of Knowledge that has ordered, because we need a good knowledge base for creating a future-oriented framework. I have previously informed Stortinget that we intend to hold a hearing before the summer, and then the questions asked by the representative will be answered. It's not common for governments, or governments, to tell us what's coming before we're done investigating. But I think it is important that we, as authorities, ensure that government and public funds benefit the children. It is important that we ensure diversity, ensure that children have good childcare facilities, and that private kindergartens do not stand back for the quality and content of municipal kindergartens. We need to ensure diversity, but we also need to ensure that the money benefits the children, and that is why we want to propose a future-oriented framework. There is no government before us that has managed to achieve.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e573	It is the diversity that is threatened by the commercial groups that submit to it, buy up and lay down ideal kindergartens, which become part of larger group structures. That's what we want to end up with. Today's pension proposal came after a recommendation in a report that the government received from the consulting company PwC in 2015. In the annual report to the Landsförbund of Private Barnehager, PBL, for 2017, they wrote that the directorate and PwC first proposed a significantly lower pension premium than 13 pst., but after intensive work from the PBL they had checked up the rate to 13 pst., which has led to an increase in the number of children's gardens by 700 million. kr annually. Now we see that the pension grant is 1 billion. kr higher than what they actually have in pension expenditure — a lucrative lucrative scheme that no one else here in society benefits from. What does the Council of State think that the PBL has had the effect of a change that has now been shown to have been a purely billion-dollar transfer from the community to their own members? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e582	The number is out.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e587	If the representative had read the report, he would have seen that the figures he's operating on were related to the situation before the standard was introduced. It is linked to the municipal funds used for kindergartens, and the private kindergartens – many of them – have had a lower crew than the municipal kindergartens. Once the standard has been implemented, the amount to which reference is made will decrease. I am concerned that we should ensure that employees in private kindergartens also have good pension conditions. That was the reason for the pension premium, that we should ensure that employees, whether they work in municipal or private kindergartens, have good and equivalent pension conditions. We are now going through these framework conditions, and we are proposing that. It's not true, as the representative of Moxnes says, that private kindergartens threaten diversity. [[President clubs]] The point is that the Moxnes representative will remove the private kindergartens. [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e596	The number is out. There will be follow-up questions – first the Bears of the Moxnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e603	This is where the Council of State mixes the cards. The pension grant is calculated on the basis of the compensation of employees in municipal kindergartens – at 13 pst. of those costs. It's the system, and it's a system that rewards the commercial owners that gives the employees the lowest possible pension, because then the difference between the grant they get from our tax money and the real costs the lower the pension they give the employees. We'd rather have a system that compensates for the real costs. It is only logical that real expenditure is compensated and not non-real expenditure. It's a pure sponsorship of profits to commercial owners. Then there is a fact — several reports show it — that the proportion of non-profit kindergartens is falling dramatically, while the proportion of commercial kindergartens is rising dramatically. These difficult groups buy up, subside and put down ideal kindergartens to get them into their group. [[President clubs]] It's the inverse of diversity, it's consolidation. [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e610	The number is out.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e615	Let me just remind you that the framework conditions that have created the nursery market we see today were the red-green parties that were responsible for when they put in power. Then there is now a civil government going through the framework conditions. Our aim of this review is to ensure the diversity of kindergartens and to facilitate the diversity of municipal, non-profit and private kindergartens, while ensuring that the money we spend on public budgets will benefit the children. I notice that the representative of Moxnes does not mention the child once. He's just talking about the commercial groups, the rich. I'm busy with the kids. I am concerned that the children should have qualitatively good kindergartens, and then we must have a diversity. That is why we are now going through the framework conditions, to ensure that it is forward-looking. The reports it refers to are what we have ordered, and they form the basis for the knowledge of the changes in the rules we come with. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e624	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e630	My main question is to the Minister for Fisheries. The Labour Party is engaged in the maritime-coastal social contract, which aims to create Norwegian fish jobs on land through the widest possible processing of fish in Norway. We know that the potential is there, but it is important that the policy is also there. Right now I am very uncertain about the latter. The government has been asked in several decisions to develop a strategy and policy for the maritime food industry. The Storting has also asked the government to create a strategy for full-year jobs in industry, as far back as spring 2016. We have also asked for a strategy for the use of residues to ensure greater value creation of the raw material landed. Time is running, and decisions are in place, but there are no strategies that are being developed, as we know. In the meantime, the development of the industry in terms of automation and robotization, which presents challenges, but above all opportunities for the development of the Norwegian seafood industry. The government and the role of the Biggest is to provide framework conditions and policies that help us, as a nation, to seize these opportunities. The Labour Party is very impatient and has challenged the Council of State to put in place its own white fish strategy, which he thought was not necessary. Now we are in a situation where fisheries are doing well, but industry is asking us politicians to be more forward-looking. It doesn't just keep traveling around, political action must also be in place. My question to the Council of State is: What is the Government's plan to lift the marine food industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e641	First, it's important to travel around. I wanted more people to travel around to meet the companies that the representative Myrseth is coming forward. I have visited Lerøy in Båtsfjord. I've been visiting a number of fish breeders along the coast. I've been visiting a number of other facilities just to hear what the problem is, what the possibilities are, and what they want us to do. This means that the strategies that the representative is calling for are being developed, and I intend to present them in an appropriate manner when they are completed. I have actually worked for a while on the different strategies associated with both residues, annual jobs, etc. I have also had a number of meetings with the industry itself, where I have said that we must ensure that more of the fish we land is actually auctioned in real time, so that the industry can access it and process the fish. As a government, we have made sure to improve the TaxFUNN scheme, which means that the companies that now have to change their way of working because of automation and robotization etc. have the opportunity to develop these technologies. As we can see from today's media headlines on Båtsfjord use considerable resources to automate fillet production, which will make one more competitive in the coming years. In addition, I have been around to prepare the basis for better market access for Norwegian products, because the price level means that we should have better framework conditions. That's why I've been talking, among other things. with my Japanese colleagues, because we have to sell mackerel in Japan in a competitive way – just as salmon is important to us. I have also been other places to prepare market access, because if we don't have a market for our products, we don't get them. I'm doing a lot of things, and the strategies are also on the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e652	I've also been around and traveling. I've been to Lerøy and others and to chess fishing. It's important that we politicians do it. But it's also important when you're traveling around and making sense, you're turning them into actual politics. I miss the fact that this Council of States is actually happening. It is not that we have plenty of issues for the nutrition committee in the field of fisheries policy — that is the opposite either. I hear he says that strategies should be put in place. Now it is three years since the one strategy that was adopted was to be delivered here. So the question is, when can you expect to get some issues to the Storting about this? Is it coming in the spring, or is it coming in the next spring?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e659	I can promise that the representative Myrseth will have more than enough work to do with both the spring, beyond the autumn and next year in the field of fisheries. That's not what it should be lacking, because we have a number of things we want to address within the fisheries area. We have great opportunities because we have been able to run good fisheries management, which means that we have control of our stocks. Then we have to make sure to put this into products that we can sell to our markets out there. One of the measures actually taken by the undersigned in the Whitefish area, as the representative himself mentioned here, is to extend the storage time for live catches, on cod, in order to develop more whole-yearly jobs. I have expanded from 12 to 20 weeks in this field. In addition, we have done a lot in the field of recruitment. Among other things, over 100 recruitment quotas have been allocated by the current government in recent years. In addition, we have done a number of other steps to improve access for this industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e666	It opens for follow-up questions – first Cecilie Myrseth.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e671	I am delighted that the Minister for Fisheries will present more matters. Not only Nesvik, but also his predecessors have spoken very warmly and loudly about matters that are to come to Stortinget, but it has ended up that we have stood here and called for matters month after month, and now it also goes on for years. A maximum of one thing per year is not enough for this industry. I ask again: is it such that the Minister for Fisheries could agree to develop a strategy for the whitefish industry just to put in place more processing?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e678	It's not always there are strategies that answer the challenges you have. First, we have to go in and see what the challenges are. One of the challenges I get to point out at least is how we get access to raw materials in order to produce. Take the cutting fish industry: the cutting fish industry can produce the product throughout the year by, for example, frozen raw material which they can obtain from the fishing fleet. It may be frozen, and it thaws again and is produced. It is precisely access to raw materials that is the challenge. As far as the fresh fish industry is concerned, it is precisely possible to have fresh fish fed throughout the year in a proper and good way to capture what the market wants for that industry. In salmon industry, there are other challenges. It is not always the case that there are strategies that are important, but the practical policies that are used in everyday life. That is why I have met with the economic operators to ensure that we get access to this raw material for the Norwegian industry. And it's no secret that the signatory's aim is to get the raw material back home, among other things. from China, and make it into a finished product in Norway. Then it's important that we have market access.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e685	Cecilie Myrseth – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e690	Then I say it again: I am delighted that matters on fisheries policy will finally come to the nutrition committee. But to a very serious question, we have the ambition to be the world's leading seamate. Then it is quite unacceptable and it weakens the confidence in the industry when social dumping conditions are revealed in the industry. This must be addressed before it damages the entire industry. And that is definitely the responsibility of the Minister for Fisheries, I just have to say. We have read several things about how it has been, for example. in Lofoten and Vesterålen, under the great control that was now in winter. It's crime, and we can't be familiar with that in the fishing nation of Norway. I'm very concerned about this, and I think that proper working conditions are a minimum to expect in such an important industry as the seafood industry is in our country. Then my question is: how has the Minister for Fisheries intended to respond to the challenges of social dumping in the fisheries industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e701	I fully agree with Mr Myrseth's representative. It is totally unacceptable not to follow Norwegian law and the legislation that is there, where this is revealed. It has to be seized, it has to be punished, and action has to be taken. In addition, good control procedures must be established. We need to have good banknote and control of this, so we also know what's going on, and how the working conditions are. In addition, last year's government reduced just this sample to go through the different ways in which we can get even better control, in order to discover these things. First we have to reveal it, then we have to investigate it, and then we have to make sure to do something about it and prosecute it. Because it's completely unacceptable, these conditions are revealed.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e708	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e714	My question goes to the Minister of Knowledge. Figures from the SSB show a teaching shortage of 3,200 teachers in 2020 and 6000 in 2040, without taking into account the impact of the new skills requirements that have been given retroactive effect. When the skills requirements were introduced in 2015, there were probably 33 000 lacking further training in Norwegian, math and English. Four years later, this number is probably 25 000. Based on this progress, there is every reason to doubt that all teachers who need further training in order to meet the requirements of competence in the remaining six years are actually able to do so. The government’s response to the teaching shortage has until now been further education. But it's not just expanding the number of study places to get all teachers through. This has to do with capacity in the UH sector. The widespread use of temporary workers in continuing training is also a problem. The temporary workers are often unqualified. When you take this into account, the teacher's lack will be cloud-high above the SSB's numbers when we get to 2025. For the Center Party, it seems that the government does not see the seriousness and lack of control to solve the teaching shortage. For the Centre Party, it makes no sense for students who are currently being trained by competent teachers with extensive professional experience to lose their good teacher and, instead, to be at risk of having an unskilled intern in the subjects of Norwegian, mathematics and English. How concerned is the fact that many thousands of students will lose teachers who are currently approved to teach math, English and Norwegian, and instead need to receive help from unskilled temporary workers without a single study score in the same subjects? Is it the right resource usage?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e727	It is an important question that the representative raises, both the question of teacher recruitment, so make sure that more young people want to learn, and to ensure that we have competent teachers, good teacher training and teachers with depression in the subjects in which they teach. We see that in the decades to come we may lack teachers. This is why the government has taken a number of measures to raise the status of the teaching profession and to help more young people want to learn. It's about making teacher training a master, it's about historical commitment to continuing education, it's about the recording requirements that have been set to become a teacher, it's about finding new career paths for teachers, among other things. with teacher specialists – and we see that that policy is working. We see that there are more people who want to learn. In fact, the proportion and number of people who want to be taught have increased after increasing the intake requirements for teacher training, and we are delighted about that. Then we're doing a historical effort on continuing education, and it also produces results. There are several teachers now who have depression in Norwegian, English and mathematics. For me, this is important. It is important that all students meet teachers who have depression in the subjects in which they teach. We know how much that means for students' learning. Then we've set a goal that in 2025, everyone who teaches English, Norwegian and mathematics will have a depth in those subjects, and I have great faith that we're going to be able to do it. Since 2014, very many teachers have experienced depression in the subjects. This year there are 11,280 teachers who want further education, and this shows that teachers are also involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e740	The status ahead is one moment, but the treatment of today's teachers is also important. On Monday, the NRK was able to report that 10 pst. by the teachers in Vestfold and Buskerud soon retire. On a country-by-country basis, about 10 pst. by teachers 60 years of age or older. Additional 18 pst. is between 50 and 59 years of age. A large proportion of these are among the separated teachers and will be close to retirement age when the requirement occurs in 2025. Many say they will choose early retirement or leave the profession rather than start studying again. In addition, choose about 25 pst. by all newly-trained teachers, occupations other than the teaching profession are equivalent to about 1000 teachers per year. This will further exacerbate teaching shortages and increase the number of unskilled students in school. What does the Council of State say to the many thousands of teachers who feel that they are branded as unqualified to teach in their own profession at the pace of their careers? And does the Council of State think this is a good recruitment and employers policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e747	I completely disagree with the description of both separation and that one is stamped as unqualified. I believe that all teachers, regardless of their age, should also have the opportunity to continue their training. If you are 55 years old, or if you are 60 years old, it is important that you have the opportunity to gain additional skills in the subjects you teach. This is the new world of work: we have to count on renewing our skills through working life – not just getting an education at home, but also making sure that we learn our whole lives. You also have to do that if you're 55 or 60. Now, fortunately, we see that retirement age is increasing among teachers. In 2002, the average was 59.7 years of age, but now it has reached 62.6 years in 2015. We believe it is important to prioritize the teachers who teach in these subjects, and we will of course work with good solutions also towards 2025 to ensure that we have both enough and qualified teachers.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e756	We move on to the next main question, which is the last question in this oral question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e761	My question goes to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation. Taking care of our oldest is one of our most important common tasks. The working party wants older people to be the head of their own lives and everyone to have a safe old age. We want targeted measures that will provide clear improvements in the care of the elderly. Through, inter alia: a quality reform and 1 billion. We will ensure the transition to future care for the elderly in Norway. For the Workers' Party, the slogan ‘By and Land hand in hand’ does not expire on date. For us, it's as important to create smart villages as to create smart cities. And it is precisely in many municipalities in the countryside that the pressure on the care of the elderly is increasing. Today, there are 4.2 active persons per pensioner. In 20 years, this number is down to 2.9. For some municipalities, the fraction is much more dramatic, with only one and a half active per pensioner. Inland districts and the three northernmost counties face the main challenges. The rapporteur, Mr Hofstad, is particularly concerned about this. A ‘home reform’ with a focus on home services, welfare technologies and housing that allows more elderly people to live longer at home is essential for the success of future care for the elderly. The government has both an senior minister and a digitisation minister, but it is in the municipalities that security technology is to be put into use. It's going too slowly. We have to go from pilots to roll-out and operations. It requires great investment and good plans. What is the plan of the Council of State to ensure the success of the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e772	First, I would like to say that I agree with a lot of the descriptions given by the representative, in particular related to demography. The fact that we are getting fewer and more older presents us with major challenges, and that's one of the things we try to describe when we talk about both local and regional reform, because it's about facilitating job creation across Norway. Several older people mean that we're going to have financial challenges, but not least we're going to have challenges with who's going to provide services to a municipality where fewer younger people live. The need for municipalities to implement digital tools, new technological solutions, is quite obvious. There's a great deal going on. Very many municipalities are engaged in exciting projects. We have a partnership with KS, where last year we went into a spice layer with the municipalities. We have developed solutions to enable municipalities to apply for contributions to the development of new digital solutions. What is so amazing is, of course, that – unlike in the private sector, where new digital solutions and new technologies are a business secret – it is to do the most in public, completely independent of the level of government and the municipality in which you live. So what one municipality does, the 421 other municipalities can also apply. So there's a lot of work going on here. The state has the highest degree of involvement through financial contributions. In addition, even this year by the state, we have a historic commitment to just digitisation – SEK 1.7 billion. kr on new projects, in addition to all the others we have started up. A great deal of it is being done in the area of the Minister of Health, and it will benefit the municipalities as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e783	I am glad that the Council of State also acknowledges that money is part of the solution. In the Workers' Party, we've paid $3.5 billion. kr more to the municipalities on the municipal framework, in addition to the fact that we have invested 300 million in the current year’s budget. kr just for broadband. The task of several older people in society is a task we can't save ourselves out of. We have to invest to solve these problems. What is the plan of the Council of State to enable the municipalities to meet the 'puckle costs' that the municipalities will now receive, relating to both the purchase of technology, the enhancement of the competence of staff in the service and the training of users, which is now going to deal with more technology in their everyday lives?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e790	We do this through solid municipal arrangements, which enable municipalities to prioritise this area – and the municipalities do it. The split layer we've made with KS, makes the municipalities commit themselves to contributing, KS contributes, and the state contributes. The more people who make use of the solutions, the more efficient and cheaper they become. I have looked at solutions related to e.g. to have digital keys in your home health care. It's incredibly much more effective. Municipalities spend less money because home health care providers spend less time meeting, changing keys, etc., as well as making it safer for the user. So it's nothing new to me that the Workers' Party spends more money on its alternatives than the government does, but it's not the Workers' Party that pays that bill – it's the business of the whole country that does when you increase taxes. Then you make it less safe to invest, less safe to create jobs. And if there's something the districts and municipalities depend on, there's employment over the next 10-20 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e799	The oral question procedure is now over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e813	There will be some changes to the questionnaire, and it will be shown in the context of the electronic question list in the salap. The changes were as follows: Questions 8 and 9 from the representatives of Liv Signe Navarsete and Sandra Borch respectively to the Minister for Defence are postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 10, from the representative Ketil Kjeseth to the Minister for Climate and Environment, has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e827	«Official property developers in the East during these days are addressing local peasant teams with a desire to come into contact with landowners and farmers offering re-regulation and detailed regulation for residential purposes. Such enquiries contribute to further pressures on the food soil. What does the Council of State think of a development in which commercial property developers put pressure on local landowners to reregulate LNF areas for residential purposes?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e834	First, I would like to thank the representative for the question. I'm a local politician, a state politician, and now that the Council of State is involved, it's the use and pressure of specially cultivated land. We know that when municipal plans are to be laid out, individual farmers come on tow with business operators and builders and want to pour out the areas in the municipal plan just to get it regulated for residential purposes. I think we should have a very conscious view of this both as municipal politicians, as regional politicians and as national politicians. The local politicians experience the pressure when they get an actor with a farmer who – the representative does not mention it – likes to have an option agreement in addition, which gives them an incentive to expand that particular area. In the case of option agreements, a builder may have a stronger backbone and greater ability to influence in the regulatory plans than an individual has. That is why I am pleased that the government has put forward an updated soil protection strategy in the state budget for 2019. Then one also said something about that one will investigate a demand for a solution to the issue of option agreements. It's just to see what's behind the expansion that comes. We have a big challenge in common, given that only 3 pst. of our area is cultivated. That means that when we use this for expansions, which are cheap to the entrepreneur and expensive to society, it's a bad way to manage Norwegian agricultural land.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e843	It is difficult to disagree with the Council of State in its description. I think we're on line there. What we see now are aggressive expansion interests that work especially in press areas to get reregulated precious food soils. So, as the Council of State says, in the expanded soil protection strategy, it's said that you're going to come back to this. But the Agriculture Directorate was quite clear. They consider that option agreements are compulsory and cannot be entered into in secret. What is the Council of State's position on option agreements, and will the Council of State take an initiative to ban us?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e858	I will follow up on the decision made in Stortinget, and I will follow up to look at several aspects of option agreements. I am absolutely convinced that we need to get more of what underpins option agreements today. Whether it ends with a ban or not, I'm not going to say here and now, but that I'm going to come back to it because it's a challenge that the option agreements lie the way they are, I'm convinced. Then I want to say one more thing. I believe that from a political point of view, we also need to take both local and county action to ensure that we get long-term lines that tell us where the development should be – in common between municipalities, regions and counties – in order to secure the agricultural land. We can't afford to build up so much agricultural land, and we can't afford them coming under the arm with option agreements and asking us to expand.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e865	I had the pleasure of hearing the Minister of Agriculture at the Agricultural Association's cereal meeting in Askim Cultural House a few weeks ago, and it was an offensive government council I then heard in terms of soil protection. Inner Eastfold is a merged municipality as a result of the municipal reform that the Christian People's Party has put itself behind. One of the important arguments for the municipal reform was precisely land-use planning. Will the government take initiatives towards new municipalities to see more holistically and give priority to soil protection in addition to other interests?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e870	I want to start a little bit at a different end. If we are to get good regulation and good agreements, I think it is important that we also make strategies locally. I myself have been sitting as rapporteur and sitting in the county policy where we jointly have plans to care for the agricultural land. I think that both new and old municipalities in Inner Eastfold have to do jointly to secure the agricultural land in their area. This is a local responsibility, it's a regional responsibility, but it's basically a national responsibility. I think we should be clear in national leadership regarding the use of cultivated land.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e878	‘Although there is much to rejoice about in Norwegian agriculture, there are also some things that go in the wrong direction. The degree of self-sufficiency is declining, and there is overproduction, increased imports, out-of-use soil, and centralisation of food production. What will the Council of State do to ensure a living agriculture throughout the country and to increase self-sufficiency?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e885	Fortunately, the representative Pollestad points out that it is a lot to enjoy Norwegian agriculture, and I fully agree with that. I'm glad we can have a common view of that. Then I wonder what the story of Norwegian agriculture is. Is there a little contradiction in the question of the representative coming along? On the one hand, the representative says that there is a wrong path and that there is too little supply. On the other hand, he says we have overproduction. I would say that yes, we have overproduction in some of the areas where Norway is able to produce from its climate and its way of producing. Besides that, we have some areas where we don't have enough production. This applies, inter alia, to: cereals, greens and fruit. There we have the opportunity to produce more. That's why I think overproduction is a challenge for agriculture, and agriculture has a responsibility to help bring down overproduction, because it makes it less profitable both for agriculture, for those who produce, and for us as a society. Overproduction lowers the price and wages of those who work. The second thing I'm going to say is that at the same time we have to be able to turn around, so that we can facilitate the production of several alternatives in green and fruit. In addition, I would like to say that in the period before this government was actually more grass production where we should have produced grain. More grass was produced where one should have used the areas differently. I am concerned that we shall grow cereals where it is suitable for cereals, and grass where it is suitable for grass. It'll do something about self-sufficiency, and it'll do something about the energy that we're actually going to get into our own country. At the same time, we need to facilitate small and medium-sized applications. The willingness to invest has been great because you have had good times to get large units, but we need to provide small and medium-sized units.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e898	It's a little absurd to start a question that there's a lot to enjoy in Norwegian agriculture, on the day the Council of State makes a proposal to take the life base of 200 fur farmers in Norway, who produce a legal product. I just want to use the ability to say how disappointing this matter is, and send a friendly thought to those who are framed and being deprived of their livelihood. To follow up: In 2018, a situation in which both trade unions signed an agricultural agreement. It pleased us, but my follow-up question is: Now we have gone from having a State Council from the Progress Party to having a State Council from the Christian People's Party. Does agriculture want to label it?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e905	I hope agriculture notices that the Christian People's Party is as concerned with Norwegian agriculture in government as we were outside government, and as we have been all the way. I would also say that what we did on the Granavolden, what we arranged on the platform, I believe was a chapter that was not so clear in the previous government chapter. I am concerned that we are going to implement the policy of the Granavolden platform, where a multiplicity – not just a one-sided but diverse – agriculture across the country, and where one is going to use the resources that are suitable locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e910	Bollestad... Pollestad, it was. It's going mad here for a poor man.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e915	I'm sorry about the resemblance. [[muttering in the hall]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e920	I notice that Pollestad – not Bollestad, but Pollestad – sees, knows and is aware that the agricultural structure is approaching. I have not yet received the demand from agriculture, but I would like to say that the representative Pollestad will be allowed to take a Easter break and be safe in his assurance that I am engaged in putting a label on agriculture based on what is on the Granavolden platform. We as the government want to have an agriculture throughout the country, and we want to give agriculture work opportunities because it is actually one of the most important continental industries we have in our country. That's why it's important for the government to value it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e928	‘In the work on new rules for the taxi industry, many have expressed concern that the taxi offer in the districts will be lower. In the consultation note, the Ministry proposes that county municipalities be granted access to local exclusive rights for taxi transport in specific areas. Other, including: The taxi industry believes that this is not enough to ensure a good taxi offer throughout the country. What action will the Council of State take to ensure that the system of exclusive rights maintains a good taxi offer for people throughout the country?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e935	In the Council of State, we have presented our proposals for changes to professional transport laws, which regulate the taxi industry. It has been important for the government to take two important considerations into account: One is that the taxi industry is losing competitiveness. Even if people travel more, there is a market failure in parts of the taxi industry, and we need to make urban competition work even better. At the same time I like the representative Mossleth busy that the supply in the districts should be good, as today. That is what I mean by the bill, simply because the county councils, who have had the authority and still want it, can also choose to award one-off contracts if there is a market failure. For all practical purposes, it means giving a monopoly situation for up to five years at a time to a company that can run taxis in a limited area. By making such an award, a municipality may impose requirements on the content of services – daily or many other requirements – which also reinforces the provision of taxis in addition to that in some areas today. I am absolutely sure that the basis of privacy is good enough for politicians across the country to be involved and do an important job to maintain the taxi supply as the important part of the collective supply it is in many parts of Norway, and I am absolutely sure that with the legislation we are now presenting, we can cope with both the need for conversion in an industry that loses competitiveness and a good supply throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e946	I am sorry that the Council of State could not answer this question of exclusive rights earlier, because I think it should have been reflected more on the exclusive right before the matter was brought before the Stortinget. The reason for this is, among other things, that TØI writes that in several municipalities almost the entire income potential of the local taxi industry related to contract travel, including school, health and patient travel. Therefore, an exclusive right exclusively related to other services, including the ordering market and the street market, has no significant autonomous economic value for any exclusive rightholders in that area. Where the exclusive right constitutes only 10 pst. of the driving of the district dross in some areas, how can the exclusive right save the taxi industry in the districts?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e951	If one grants one right from the county councils, one can set requirements for what the offer should be like. Today it is the county councils that, in total, also buy the rest of the public transport, for example. This allows them to meet the needs of their inhabitants. Just as they buy bus services or other collective services, they can buy taxi services in the future through a one-right advantage outside the big cities. I am absolutely sure that it provides the necessary tools to the county councils to help make it a sensible and good taxi offer throughout the country. So it's quite right, as the representative was in, that the taxis have not only had revenues from the commercial market, which we use as private individuals. They've had more income streams. We can then assume that they will not initially disappear even if they change their regulatory relationship with the taxi industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e958	It may not disappear, but I think it is very unlikely, if it is to be a free establishment, that taxi drivers will see the benefits of having the offer clear everywhere, always, if competition becomes so strong that they do not make money on it. In addition, the scheme outlined by the Council of State will lead to quite a lot of bureaucracy when the exclusive right is to go through the paper mill. Today we have readiness everywhere, always. If there are available taxi services that are not necessary, there is no basis for exclusive rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e963	Here's a number of claims that I can't find the basis for going very deeply into, because I think several of them are directly misleading both about the situation and what the reality of the proposal is. I would thus encourage the representative to read the proposal before a conclusion is reached with any conclusions it may have. I mean the regulation we are now proposing, is based on the fact that if it is a functioning market, it is best for him to be able to function. That is why we are regulating a market that has failed to translate, and we are reducing the entry barriers in order to have effective competition more places. If there is no effective competition, we give the county councils the opportunity to grant one-off rights for five years at a time. There's an allocation through an offer, there's no more bureaucracy. Today, despite all search permissions on each individual driver privileges. The delimitation of numbers on it also contributed to both stronger competition in cities and a good supply in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e971	‘There is currently a gigantic process in the state road system involving the transfer of tasks and the addition of a possible transfer from regional offices to divisions combined with extensive redundancy from the state to the county municipalities. How will the Council of State ensure that the transformation of the State Road Service is in line with the government's own ambitions for regional distribution of state jobs, and when does the Council of State see that a final decision will be taken in this matter?'
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e978	It is quite right that the State Road Service is going through a major and demanding transformation. Part of it is the transfer of the same road administration to the county councils, for which the central party took the initiative in 2010, and for which I assume they are overly concerned that the government is now implementing, in line with the Central Party's intention to do when they were in government, but not received. That's one of the conversions we're going through. This means that the Great State Road Service that we still have must also, through a necessary adaptation to the way we have organized it. I have always been clear that the State Road Service must have time and space to make its assessments of what their own organisation will look like. They've basically done that. In addition, there has been an area review of the State Road Service, which says that in the so-called TK area, road user and rail freight area, there are great possibilities for improving the efficiency of the structures. There is now work to be done, and the State Road Administration will deliver its proposal to the Department on 10 May. For both of these tasks in common, my expectation – also expressed expectations – is that the State Road Administration will adhere to the guidelines we have for the location of state jobs, established by the Ministry of Local Government and Modernisation. It's the obvious leaders. I will also regret that when a final conclusion is reached. It's unfortunately too early for me to advance at what time we're ready to do it. That means that before I can say anything about it, I need to see what kind of assessment the state road authority has made, I need to see their professional advice, and I need to look at the involvement I have asked them to have in the process in order to get the best possible final result. So the time I expect to have concluded that, I have to come back after I have seen the proposal that the State Road Administration will deliver, starting with the deadline of 10 May.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e989	I thank you for your answer. However, I'm a little bit curious about the process and I wonder which state council will give the most importance to the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e994	I think the honest answer to that is that we must have a State Road Service that is equipped to meet the challenges they are facing in the coming years, and a State Road Service that responds to the expectations of the users of the State Road Service, whether it is in the TK area – even where we are going to see large-scale digitisation in the years to come – or the debt on the development side, where they now have more competitors in the market and will go further to both get more money and raise the social benefits of investment. They have a number of important tasks, including road safety, and others. We have to have a state road service that can deliver on those tasks, we have to have a structure that's adapted to it, and then we're going to follow the government guidelines for this. Because I am also busy that the State Road Service will have work in all parts of the country, and then they should also be present in all parts of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e1001	I thank you for your answer. We see that the government has used both business and management a lot, and when decisions are to be taken, it seems that it is where it happens. I wonder, then, who will decide on the location of the divisional headquarters? When will this be done? Is the choice of geographical location concerned by regional policy considerations? So, how do you ensure local knowledge?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e1008	The localization questions come back to us when we get them together the proposals from the State Roads Agency, which also includes the TK area. As I have said before, the deadline for that work is 10 May, and the State Road Administration then delivers its proposal to the Department. What the structures will look like will be evaluated at that time. They will be evaluated based on point one, where we have competence, need competence and have important work to do, point two, the government guidelines, and point three, how we should dimension the state road system to solve the challenges and tasks they have, even in the years to come. In total, it means that we are going to implement a necessary transformation in the state road system, a necessary streamlining of the state road system, but we are still going to make sure that we are present in all parts of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e1018	‘Many have worked for a new tunnel through the Mountain on Rv. 77 in Saltdal. When this tunnel is soon opened up to safer traffic, it is also time to change the status of this road from national road to European road. A change will provide a holistic and logical transport corridor that will make it easier for carriers, businesses and tourists. Signage and visibility on the map are important, and this cross-link is shown too poorly on maps today. Can the Council of State initiate this reclassification as requested on both sides of the border?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e1025	The Ministry of Transport has just made an assessment of the need to reclassify Rv. 77 over the Mountain to Europe Road, inter alia: Viewed in the light of the significant upgrade that has now been done on the route. Let me add that after all, it is the most important of all that the standard on the roads is good. A new tunnel through the Mountain and a new link to the E6 will be opened for traffic this year. We already have four cross-border crossings with European road status in Trøndelag, Nordland and Troms: E14, E12, E10 and E8. The Riksveg 77 over the Mountain is not so far from the E12 and has the least traffic of these corridors. While the main gravity of long international transport is above E14, E12 and E10, traffic is above rv. 77 for a large part to count as regional traffic in the region. Even if you don't want to ignore the fact that the road can increase traffic as a result of the upgrade, we don't have the basis to say it today. The representative Mossleth refers to the fact that there is a request for a reclassification to the European road from both sides. Essentially, I would say that the difference between national and European roads is not significant. The state is responsible for the road on both sides, and it is the state of the road and the maintenance that determine to what extent it is easy to get into the area. After I have been told by Swedish authorities so far, they do not see fit to proceed with a reclassification work from the Swedish side. If that's right, I think it's natural that we keep the national road status on the Norwegian side for rv. Seventy-seven. We may ask the question again if the Swedish side would change the position on this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e1036	I fully agree with the Council of State that it is joyous, important and correct that we get a better way through the Mountain. There shall be a pleasure when the tunnel opens. But I do not fully agree with the assessment. The crossing of the Mountain has been a bottleneck that has made it difficult to use the road. At the same time, it is shown as badly on the map as on the national road, compared to the other European roads, to contribute to low traffic. I imagine we should include rv. 80, from Bodø through Fauske, Saltdal and beyond, in this project. Sees the Council of State that rv. 80 can be included in this project?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e1043	If I'm going to be honest, I'm going to have to get a full grip on what's the main point, and what's the background for the desire for reclassification. Initially, I understand very well the need for a high standard on the road, and therefore we upgrade the road standard. I understand the need to have a good maintenance on the road. We're going to keep that going, either it's a European road or it's a national road. Nevertheless, the state owns the responsibility for the road section. Then we're actually left with how the traffic divides. I can't help but see that such a reclassification would lead to significant changes. So I'm going to stick to my previous answer. As long as the Swedish don't see fit to do so, I don't see any reason to make such an assessment now. We might have to do it again if it turns out to be different from Swedish.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e1050	The rapporteur, Britta Flinkfeldt, in Arjeplog, Sweden, is working on this issue on the Swedish side. If it has not reached the ministerial level, it is clearly a wish for a European road on the Swedish side too. The council says he doesn't see the whole point. Then I have to explain it again: the point is that with a European road you get a much greater visibility of what is today called the Silver Road, which goes from Bodø to Skellefteå. A greater visibility will be beneficial for the tourist industry and travel life for the rest. So it's the business of travel, tourism and business I'm talking now, when I want more visibility for that road arm.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e1057	I register it, and – as I said – if they make new assessments on the Swedish side, I will make a new assessment. In principle, I still think that what decides most is whether we can manage to manage to reduce the travel distance for business, and therefore also to create new business activity, for example. on the travel side, is the standard on the road. In that context, we're now doing the necessary upgrades, and I think that after all, it's the most important thing. As I said, from the Swedish side, they report that they have not intended to do such a reclassification now. If they do a new assessment, we should of course also do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e1067	‘I refer to the emergency situation in the Vågsfjord basin, where the health business board decided to shut down the ambulance ‘Alden’ from 1 January 2019. Health enterprises are in an economic situation that leads, among other things, to cuts in emergency medical services. The size has asked for a staggering message with an overall review of the prehospital services, including the ambulance service. Will the Council of State ensure that the cuts are put on hold until such an overall review is in place?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e1074	In recent years, prehospital emergency treatment facilities have been developed that were previously only given in hospitals. The ambulance service is today referred to as the hospital’s extended arm. The development of prehospital services should therefore be seen in the context of the National Health and Hospital Plan, as also demonstrated by the new Government Platform. A new national health and hospital plan will be promoted as a key message. A review of the prehospital services will take place in this paper. in order to give an overall status to the follow-up to NOU 2015: 17, first and foremost, and to outline the sustainable development of this service in the future. The representative Henriksen points out that Stortinget has asked for a comprehensive review of the prehospital services, including the ambulance service. A separate big message on the same theme just after the health plan has been presented as a big message will bring little news to Stortinget. But as I said, I want to follow up on the decision of the Storting by presenting a new national health and hospital plan, in line with the government platform, where prehospital services are a central theme. Regional health companies and municipalities are responsible for emergency medical preparedness, and in November 2018 the Board of Directors of the University Hospital in North Norway decided to implement the decision to shut down the ambulance at Bjarkøy from 1 January 2019. The Governing Council's decision provided that compensatory measures described in the case were put in place. The background to the governance decision is that the Kingdom of Bjarkøy from December 2018 became more closely linked to the new tunnel and bridge solution. It is clear from the board case that the need for an ambulance and emergency response for Bjarkøy is being reduced and that preparedness can be improved by increasing the use of an ambulance and ambulance helicopters. In addition, from 2015, the preparedness of the region was strengthened by ambulance helicopters on Evenes, and the entire island is now reached by ambulance helicopters within 20-30 minutes. The regularity of helicopters in this coastal area is assessed to be good. I have questions for written answer No. 378 and No 388 for 2018-2019 in detail on the case and also on the compensatory measures. My answer is that Health Nord is of the opinion that the change adopted can be implemented, provided that compensatory measures have been taken before the exit of the ambulance boat. Based on the process, investigation and identification of compensatory measures to be in place before closure, Health Nord supported the decision of the University Hospital in North Norway to wind up the ambulance.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e1091	I thank you for your answer. It's good that the helicopter base on Evenes came into place. But what the inhabitants of the Vågsfjord basin, especially on Bjarkøy, are concerned about, is that the helicopter can't always get there. If the weather is bad, if it is fog, if the visibility is not long enough, then helicopter is not an alternative. Nor are all of these island communities reached by car and tunnel, and there are examples of people having been indisposed and coming very late to the hospital because emergency ferries and the compensatory measures have been out of service. This, of course, affects the security of people, and among other things. UNN, at the clinic manager there, believes that the response time could have been maintained with the ambulance boat. The current uncertainty is due to the savings of health businesses. I will again ask my government council's original question: Will he consider putting the cuts on hold until you have the complete review and can see the prehospital services in a proper context?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e1100	The specific prehospital services must be determined by the hospitals in cooperation with the municipalities and in good processes with the municipalities. Of course, it does not always agree, but it must always be good processes, because what is the security of the population is the coherent prehospital services and the emergency services of the municipality. This means that there will be constant changes in these services as well, inter alia. as a result of new roads and new transport solutions resulting from the consistently higher competence requirements of this service. The four-yearly submission of a national health and hospital plan cannot result in a halt to the development of the service prior to each plan. This tool could no longer be used as a tool to ensure a democratic anchoring in the size of the development of the specialist health service.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e1107	I think the inhabitants of this are concerned, for first of all, don't have time to wait for the next roll or revision of the plan. Secondly, they do not feel that there is a development of the service when the offer is reduced. I would like to ask the Council of State about what has been going on in the debate, about the regulation of response time. The Labour Party has been skeptical there, but we have now said clearly that we want to prescribe the response time, precisely to ensure the security of the population in the districts. Because it doesn't make any sense that there's going to be a debate about the health services that go beyond people's sense of preparedness. Regulatory response time can be an answer to the concern that people feel, but also a very concrete tool to ensure preparedness in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e1114	No, regulatory response time will not respond to these challenges. I fully agree with what the Workers' Party has meant until recently. It is also the case that the public investigation that I referred to, which was carried out – and where they made their recommendations – in 2015, did not recommend the regulation of the response time. They recommended introducing the response time as a national quality indicator to which hospitals are measured. It is a recommendation that I have followed up. The development of response time shows that it has improved, and it has improved in districts than it has in cities. So luckily, we see that it has also had a positive effect, and that the response times have gone down.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e1124	‘Women who are required to have a self-determined abortion shall have the right to choose whether it is to be carried out with medication or by surgical intervention. Patient stories suggest that this is not a real choice, and that women are not well cared for when they go home at medical abortion. What will the Council of State do to improve the provision of self-determined abortions to women?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e1131	As the representative Toppe addresses his question, in case of self-determined abortion before the end of the 12th week of pregnancy, it will be possible to use both surgical and medical abortion. Drug treatment in the event of abortion has been in use in Norway since 1998. Use has increased steadily and has been the most widely used method since 2008. In 2018, 91 p.m. of the self-determined drug interruptions. Both methods are available at all hospitals carrying out abortions. Hospitals shall inform of both methods and of their benefits and disadvantages. Women shall be free to choose a method. According to the Health Directorate, the use of drug discontinuation in the country’s hospital ranges from 63.2 p.p. to 99,3 pst. It is important that women are given good information about both treatments and about the follow-up that the hospital can provide. The hospital shall inform about the pain, bleeding and other plagues that will occur in the following days as well. Most women commit medical abortion at home. The woman then gets information and painkillers. She will also receive information on how she can contact the hospital if necessary. If the woman is to carry out the last part of the medical abortion at the hospital, the hospital provides necessary follow-up and provides medication. Information is also available on surgical and medical abortions at healthnorge.no and on hospitals’ websites. Independently of the method, it is necessary to ensure that the woman is followed up well afterwards. This concerns both the follow-up to medical issues related to treatment itself and any subsequent psychological responses. It is important that hospitals have good procedures, that they are followed up in practice, and that hospitals capture feedback from patients. The patient must have a real choice between hospital and abortion at home. In case of home abortion, it is a prerequisite that the woman is not alone. The choice of home abortion shall include the necessary medicines, including painkillers, as well as written information on precautions. The hospital should initiate contact with the woman, and it must be made clear that the woman herself can contact the department, regardless of the time of day. It should also be possible to change and get to the hospital if the situation provides uncertainty and the woman no longer wants to carry out a medical abortion at home.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e1148	An abortion is not an intervention of any kind. Most people will need follow-up both medically and otherwise. I hear what the Council of State says, and it sounds very nice to say ‘on paper’, but the point is that it has been shown that there are very big differences in practice between hospitals in Norway, which indicate that a woman does not have a real choice. We've also been given clear patient stories that show that women hear that this is doing a home, that is what most people do, and this is usually going well – and that one has not received clear information, and one perceives it as not having enough follow-up. What does the Council of State do to make clear what the Council of State said in the previous article, about how the practice and supply should be out of health care?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e1157	My impression is, as I also said in the answer, that many hospitals have good procedures for guidance before and after treatment. However, in a difficult situation, there must be no implicit recommendation or expectation of home abortion. Drug abortion is professionally recommended and has become the dominant form of treatment in recent years. It is considered safe and effective, and release of anesthesia and surgery is an advantage. However, in order to ensure that home care works well for women, the department must develop and have clear procedures for the administration of analgesics and analgesics. It must be clear to the patient how she can get back in contact with the hospital if necessary. It's especially important if the woman, for example, is have no family or other network around them, or do not properly control Norwegian. Oslo University Hospital routines say that everyone should have someone at home during the abortion and that women under the age of 18 and women who do not speak Norwegian should carry out the treatment at the hospital. In addition to the hospital's follow-up services, there is also an established advisory service both in healthnorge.no and in private organisations such as Amathea and Sex and communities.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e1164	Now it's like we've got stories from outside that tell us about a different practice from what the Council of State refers to. I think that's serious. The Council of State said in its first answer that women should be followed up, that there should be procedures for it, that there should be a practice, and that there is a premise that one should also have someone with him. But it's not that the women are guaranteed a follow-up conversation, and that there are proper procedures for it. It is also a weakness of medical abortion that too much is left to itself. Even if you have received information about a telephone number and that you can contact them, that is actually not good enough. There are too many women who feel that they are too poorly cared for and have not been given a real choice, and who have not heard that there is another way to do it, if it should be. I would like to ask again: Will the Council of State take initiatives towards health care providers to strengthen and improve their practices?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e1173	I'm very clear on what should be the guidelines in this area. It should be a choice that the woman herself makes. She'll get good information. Many suggest that most women choose medical abortion at home. They should also have the opportunity to contact the hospital again, if they need it. I do not believe that it has been a professional recommendation that anyone who has committed a medicine-based abortion at home should be contacted by the hospital, but they should know that they can make contact if they need it, and have the security attached to it. They should also have the security that if they come home and change their mind, they can come back to the hospital and for example. perform a medical abortion at the hospital. It's also an alternative, so it's not just between surgical abortion and medical abortion at home.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e1187	This question has been postponed to the next question hour.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e1199	This question has been postponed to the next question hour.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e1220	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e1228	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Digitalisation: ‘In response to a written question dated 2 May 2018, the Minister for Transport replied that ‘[...] the digital ‘digital darkness’ has gradually disappeared in the last four years’. Can the Council of State explain to the inhabitants of pig-grown areas how this is related to Telenor’s reporting that they will no longer repair a breach of the copper network, without providing any guarantees that the Internet will be accessed if it does, and will these not risk being put in a digital shadow?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e1237	Thank you for the question. Telenor has decided to phase out the copper network. The copper network is in many places over 100 years old, out of date technologically and in poor condition. Telenor reports that the average Internet speed delivered over the copper network is 10 Mbit/s. For comparison, the average Internet speed is delivered over 4G over 70 Mbit/s. Numbers from Telenor's mobile network show that data use is increasing by over 30 pst. Every year. The Internet over the copper network is poorly equipped to meet these developments. I therefore believe that the refurbishment of the copper network will result in a much better and more forward-looking offer for the population than today's copper network customers have. Norway has world-class mobile and broadband coverage. In recent years, the offer has improved considerably for most people. Since 2013, more than one million Norwegians have been offered fibre-based broadband – since the government joined in 2013 – and more than 90,000 households that did not have the opportunity to access the Internet at a basic speed have just received it. The latest coverage report shows that there are now fewer than 1000 households lacking the Internet at basic speed. Increasing digitisation in society means that citizens and businesses must have stable and good access to the Internet. I therefore understand that the copper issue is causing concern, and I think it is very unfortunate if the copper refurbishment leads to a deterioration in the offer for a period of time. Any person who loses the telephone service when the copper cleaning is carried out shall be provided with an alternative telephone service. Telenor is obliged to provide for this and must therefore correct errors if there are no satisfactory alternatives or substitute products. Telenors do not have universal service obligations in the case of broadband. I believe it is important, however, that customers who currently have broadband over the copper network, and who do not have another alternative in the market, are well assisted by Telenor. The Ministry and the National Communications Authority, Nkom, are therefore in dialogue with Telenor on the matter, and I myself have recently raised the matter with Telenor's management. In a letter, he also asked Telenor to explain better what happens when the company modernises the network, and what rights customers have. Telenor has also recently informed the Department that all customers who have now received a stop warning in error correction on the copper network from 1 May 2019, according to Telenor’s own data, will have access to other wired network, fibre or cable TV networks – or have good mobile coverage, i.e. 4G, from Telenor. According to the information received by the department, Telenor has not sent the letter of stop in error correction to customers who, according to the company’s own data, do not have good mobile coverage or any other wired alternative available. The government, the Ministry and the government are closely monitoring the situation and developments and are continuously assessing the need for new measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e1252	Thanks for the answer. Today Telenor has actually sent out a press release where they say something other than what has previously been sent out to subscribers, and where they have turned this case around. There they say that subscribers who do not have alternative network access to the copper network will nevertheless get the line fixed if there are errors. A company that we've been in contact with, or that has made contact with us, Visit Plura in Plurdalen right outside Mo in Rana, is one of those who has received such an alert. It is a company that gets guests from all over the world who will dive into amazing caves in the valley. They have terrible mobile coverage and cannot use either mobile ID or web bank. Can the Council of State guarantee that those with such poor mobile coverage will be corrected in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e1259	Satisfactory alternatives require indoor 4G coverage. As mentioned in my previous answer, 4G coverage will usually provide much better mobile broadband than what you can get through today's copper network. If it is that you have to go out on the tune to call, you do not have a satisfactory alternative to the copper network, and that means that Telenor will have to fix errors in the network and maintain the offer through the copper network, or alternatively assist in developing a satisfactory mobile offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e1264	Thank you again for your answer - a positive answer. The Nkom government council has also interpreted EU legislation in such a way that developers of fibre networks are obliged to double their pipes when digging down fibre networks. As a result, costs increase by 25 p.m., and the builders claim that these additional pipes will never be used, because the capacity increase in the future will take place through more efficient technology. Will the Council of State take up this matter with Mr. Nkom, perhaps ask them to remove this costly requirement, so that we get more net for the far too small funds that the right-wing government is putting on the table?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e1273	Let me first get to the last one. In the case of small funds, some 200 million are allocated today. kr in broadband grants to areas of the country where there is no commercial basis for expanding. I think that's good. So we're going to be careful to get into the situation that, among other things. Sweden has done where public subsidies are so high that they actually slow down commercial expansion. Ten billion will be invested. kr in Norwegian echonets and broadband every year in Norway. It has given us the world's fastest 4G networks, it's a positive development, and we have to make sure that we apply our public instruments in such a way that we do not hold back the investment rate that commercial companies have set up. So I don't agree with that description of reality. With regard to the specific point raised by the representative, I would like to ask him to come back with an exact answer, as he deserves.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e1285	‘The Ministry of Education has today granted grants to build 1,448 new student housing. This is a discouraging number, just 40 pst. of what the government itself says they're going to build this year. A report on the Student Housing Grant Scheme from January 2019 recommends a major change to the grant scheme to facilitate student housing. What does the Council of State do specifically to actually build the number of student housing that the government says they will build, and will the Council of State consider changes to the grant scheme to speed up student housing?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e1292	The government maintains the high ambitions for student housing, and in 2019 there is room for commitments for record high 3,400 new furniture units. There were fewer applications for building grants at the end of 2018/2019 than we expected – and what we wanted. There are probably several reasons for this, including: related to the adaptations of interconnections to changes to the grant scheme. The government has increased the cost framework for student housing and the grant per housing unit to realise several construction projects. These changes also require increased speedy and efficient use of allocated grants. The Ministry of Knowledge is now waiting for projects to be promoted to be ready for construction start, otherwise they may be withdrawn. The changes were formulated as late as 2018, and it may be that communication has taken time to produce sufficiently more constructive projects, and has also delayed the search. The annual adjustment of grant rates, which has now been introduced, gives an incentive to expect as much as possible to apply for grants. The commitments received at a later date are not increased in line with the annual adjustment of the grant rate. Interactions are concerned with the growing need for rehabilitation and upgrade of student housing. Older dwellings are harder to rent out, and they mature faster. Interactions accept their responsibility for current value-reserving maintenance but do not always see themselves able to finance the major renovations that will be necessary to ensure that the shelves hold a time standard. A national working group worked during 2018 to review the Student Housing Grant Management System. The Group's report, which was delivered at the turn of the year 2018/2019, was sent to the hearing and the deadline is 12 April. Questions about rehabilitation projects and how to prevent a gradual deterioration of the housing stock, including for environmental reasons, are addressed there. The Ministry of Knowledge will, of course, consider the recordings that come to that hearing. With the changes in the funding mechanism already in place, there is reason to expect the demand for housing allowances to be re-evaluated. I will also consider publishing the remaining grants later this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e1307	I am not concerned about making a cheap political point of this matter, until it is too serious. I am concerned that enough student housing is being built – it is important for student welfare. I want to use an example from my own daughter, who is studying odontology, who I have learned that the dentist's name is fine. The first year she studied in Tromsø, she paid 7 000 kroner a month in the private market to stay. It is clear that when you get paid only NOK 8 000, this is going to be very high housing costs, and you can't afford much else. In addition, one depends on having a job at say, if one does not have rich parents. This is a rather precarious situation, and the situation changed dramatically for her part of the year afterwards, when she got a student residence at about half the price. So the need to build new student homes I think is great, and what I'm really asking the council is, what does she do to build enough new student homes?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e1316	I fully agree with the representative, who describes the importance of having a student residence. Student residence provides security when moving to a new city where one does not already have a dwelling. It is important for the student economy that there are reasonable and good rental opportunities at the place where a student moves to study, but it also has an important function in terms of being social and preventing loneliness that students can live in good student homes. So I'm also concerned that we're going to build these student homes. Now this government has offered commitments at a record high level over several years. We've had over 2,000 student homes like the new normal, and this year we have a record high of 3,400 homes we want to distribute. Unfortunately, we did not receive any further applications for new student housing, but I really hope that it will take place, because it is the relationships that have to do the job of clarifying the projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e1323	I thank you for your answer. I am pleased that a system should be reviewed, and that is a deadline for consultation, I understand now, on 12 April. Then I am excited about what the Council of State will actually do when she gets the feedback, so that all the student housing that the government has promised Norwegian students that they will build will be built.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e1330	First, I want to wait and see what feedback we get in that hearing, and then we're going to evaluate it in a good and serious way. We have already taken some important action when we have increased the grant rate, when we have increased the cost framework, which would have been silent for a while. Now it's also the way the rates are adjusted every year. Student relations no longer have an incentive to apply for commitments. They have also become accustomed to the government delivering record number of student homes every year, which means that if they have a good project, they don't have to apply now, because now they know that there are some. They know that there will be new commitments next year, the year after and the year after that again. This means that they will work on their projects longer – until they are clear. But I think it's important to keep the pressure on the number of new student homes, because we know that's a need. That's what the students say, that's what the relationships say. It really tells itself that it's an important accommodation offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e1340	I allow myself to ask the Minister of Justice and Immigration the following questions: ‘Since 2014, there has been a total lack of mention and priority of organised crime and criminal gangs in writing to the police where the budget of the year is allocated. In the Granavolden Declaration, the government has introduced its own chapters on organised crime and recriminalism. Nevertheless, the same thing is repeated in Disposalsletter 2019 from the Police Directorate to the Police and Leniency Senate, where these major tasks are not mentioned. Is the Council of State behind this lack of priority in the Disposal Code?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e1349	Thank you for the question. The government's ambition to combat recrime and organised crime is reflected in the Granavolden Declaration, and the budget for 2019 has allocated 50 million. to a broad focus on the police, prosecution authority, conflict councils and child protection. In addition, it's worth 37 million. the police's prevention work related to the ongoing area operations in Oslo. The 2019 budget is therefore a major boost in the fight against recriminalism. I would also like to refer to the letter of 21 February this year by the National Attorney and the Police Directorate, which have ordered police and prosecution units to draw up a plan to combat recriminalism in the Central East region. In cooperation with the Police Directorate, the National Advocate also wishes to establish a national project that can provide funds for cooperation between police districts. This year's letter of intent and priority from the National Attorney gives clear guidance to the police that the serious crime should be prioritised. It also shows that investigations into serious international and organised crime, including serious drug offences and so-called repeat crime, should be given priority. The national lawyer also stresses the importance of efforts against organised criminal environments that commit serious crimes that are traditionally not reported. The disposal letter, to which the representative refers, is the directorate's management document for the Police and Lenas Senate, and it is up to the police officers to direct the tasks and activities in their districts so that resources are used in line with priorities. The year’s release note shows that the fight against violence, sexual assault, labour-related crime and juvenile delinquency are priority areas of performance, including:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘Policy action against crime in youth settings and measures to prevent recruitment to established criminal and recriminal settings are of high priority.’ Recently, we have seen an increase in the number of reported cases dealing with threats to knife, knife use and other sharp objects in connection with violent crime. It's a serious social problem that needs to be tackled. Therefore, two days ago, the Oslo Police Commissioner issued new, reinforced guidelines, increased fines for the possession of knives. In the event of repetition, prosecutions are usually to be made and allegations of prison sentences, community sentences or juvenile sentences are to be made also for persons under 18 years of age. And for those who are in doubt, there's zero tolerance for carrying a knife in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e1367	I thank the Council of State for an answer where he goes through various things that are done, and that is good. I also know the Riksadvokat's priorities and impatience with regard to what is being done in the police, and of course I know the state budget posts. What's my concern is what's in the marshy itself from the Police Directorate to the police districts. When I e.g. have had meetings with the Oslo Police on whether or not they give sufficient priority to the fight against gangs and organised crime, they have also, in previous years, shown to have been written for disposal, etc., that there is no measurement category for this, and that it is not mentioned in the writing. The sentence to which the Council of State refers — repeat crime is referred in one word in a 23-page document and in a petition — is a sentence that does not convince the police districts of all the other things that stand on these 23-pages when it says in a petition. So my question is: does the Council of State think that there is a problem that this message is so minimal in this governance document, in relation to the Council of State that needs to be done?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e1376	I think it would be quite strange if the police had difficulty understanding, when important priority areas such as sexual assault, work-life crime and juvenile delinquency have been raised, and also stressed that measures to prevent recruitment to established environments and recriminalism are a high priority. That it should be difficult for the police to understand that this is an area of high priority, I have difficulty believing, and at least that's not the impression I'm left with after talking to, for example. Oslo Police District. On the contrary, they have a high focus on just repeat crime, they have a high focus on preventing there from being knives on the street. I've been with the police myself this weekend and I've seen how they've got gun searches, going through everyone who's coming from the T-course, and going into an area of lots of activity. So I feel that this is an area that it's focused on, and that it's going to be further focused on in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e1381	I also thank you for that answer and for the offensive response and offensiveness of the Council of States. What I'm concerned about here, however, is that when this is said to be mentioned with one word in a petition in a document of 23 pages, and is not among the overall objectives in any way, the message becomes very unclear. The concern I have, even when I read the letter of assignment from the ministry to the POD, which is the document that comes before they develop the disposal written, is that recriminalism is related to local areas in Oslo, and I believe that organised crime and recriminalism is a national challenge. It flourishes in many of our police districts, and more and more of the crime in Norway takes the form of its international connection, large networks and organised backers. So I miss the overall message to Police Norway at a much stronger level than in a petition in a sentence in a 23-page document.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e1388	Just the national initiative is what the Riksadvokat described, together with the Police Directorate. They want a national commitment to this now, but the Oslo police district is the most competent, historically, and it's the ones that have the biggest challenges. Then I agree with Mr Bøhler that if nothing is done about the problem in Oslo and in the Eastern region, it spreads to other areas, but that's exactly why the National Attorney wants this to be a national project. It is not the case that just a lot of phrases and pages have been written up and down in the site of disposal written, it is crucial for priority weighting. What is crucial for the emphasis on priority is how clear and clear we have actually said that this should be a priority. When it is stated correctly that this ‘has a high priority’ – yes, then there is a much clearer message than that one writes three-four paragraphs about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e1395	Then the ordinary question hour is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-10.ana.ud134e1409	There is no record available. Thus, the map is currently processed. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
