ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e83	The representative Siv Mossleth, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat. Two permit applications are available: from the Workers' Group on the Permit of the Representative, Jorod Asphjell, from 19 June to 21 June for participation, as chairman of the Parliamentary Baltic Sea Cooperation, in the journey to Baku from the Group of the Progressive Party on the Permit of the Representative of the Himanshu Gulati from 19 June to 21 June to take part in the Parliamentary Intelligence-Security Forum in Paris These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first deputy representative of Akershu County, Liv Gustavsen, there is an application for a waiver to meet in Stortinget under the representative Himanshu Gulatis permit, for welfare reasons. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the period of leave as follows: For Akershus County: Ole-Jacob Johansen For South-Trondelag: Kristian Torve
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e132	The representative of Mona Fagerås will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e138	I want to promote on behalf of the representatives of big business Audun Lysbakken, Lars Haltbrecken, Solfrid Lerbreck and myself a representative proposal on a sustainable curriculum for climate and green transformation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e143	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. From the Prime Minister's office there is the following letter to Stortinget, dated 14 June 2019: ‘Changes among State Secretaries State Council was held at Oslo Castle on 14 June 2019 at 9.30 p.m. 1100 under the direction of His Majesty the King. The following decision was adopted: State Secretary Daniel Bjarmann-Simonsen shall be given with effect from 21 June 2019 at 1 p.m. 1200 destinies in grace as State Secretary to the Council of State Torbjørn Røe Isaksen of the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries. Political adviser Hannah Sumeja Atic is constituted as State Secretary to the Council of State Torbjørn Røe Isaksen in the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries for the period from 14 June 2019 at 9.30 p.m. 1200 to 15 October 2019 at 2.30 p.m. 1200.’» This referenced letter is attached to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e176	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Right 25 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Green Party 5 minutes and Red 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be up to three lines with replies from the main speakers of the parties and five lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e189	First, I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in the work on the Community's 2020 Proposition. The municipal bill provides important guidance for the government budget for the autumn and is intended to provide the municipalities and county councils with the necessary signals on the framework within which they can base their own budgets. Important areas, such as principal assessments of the conditions of local democracy, the relationship between state and municipality, municipal reform, regional reform and the development of income systems for municipalities and county municipalities have been addressed. The government proposes to adjust the next year's income framework for municipalities by between 1 and 2 billion. kr. This results in an income growth of between 0,3 and 0,5 pst. For the counties, a real growth in free income is added up from minus 200 million. NOK plus 100 million. kr. The approach shows that the parties have common objectives for the local government sector in many areas, but also that there are clear differences that show that it is of great importance who governs it. This applies both to the financial framework within which the local government sector must work and to the governance framework between the State and the local government sector. Framework management is the main principle of government governance of the local government sector. The government will liquidate several designated grants and reduce the total amount of designation. Many of the parties in the hall here are positive to smaller denominations when it means less government governance and a strengthened local democracy, that's also true of the Center Party. It requires, of course, that assessments be made for each grant, in order to ensure that the conversion will not have adverse consequences. The centre party will build society from below and will therefore spread power, residence, jobs, capital and competences. We want people to have the opportunity to live where they want to. We want a trust reform with authority and responsibility close to people who listen to teachers, health professionals, policemen, local politicians and others who know best where the shoe prints and how the tasks can be done locally. By shifting the public sector towards more trust-based governance, we get better solutions, we decentralise tasks, simplify and streamline bureaucracy. The development of the municipal sector is important in order to maintain scattered housing and to vary business life across the country. Unfortunately, governments do not share these objectives and their policies are leading the development in a centralised direction. The Central Party proposes to increase the local government framework by 4.2 billion. in addition to the Government's proposals. Within this increase, we want to find money for a lift that gives the counties the opportunity to take back some of the maintenance run on the county roads. I assume that the other parties are making their own proposals. Major changes were made in the income systems of the municipalities and municipalities in 2015 and 2017 respectively. The changes have given rise to major redistributions by reducing the income of areas with low population and large distances from cities and populous parts of the country. There is little doubt that there is a deliberate policy behind this – where we find the winners, and where we find the losers. The centre party has several times proposed a conversion of the income system that reintroduces full basic grants and removes the government's structure of structural criteria that distinguish between so-called voluntary and involuntary small municipalities. We believe that this is necessary in order to follow up the decision to grant us an income system that offers equivalent opportunities to develop welfare services for the inhabitants. The priorities within the framework affect the distribution between municipalities. With this government it has been a redistribution from small and medium-sized municipalities to large municipalities. When grants such as regional centre grants, metropolitan grants, and growth grants are to be included in the framework, together with aggregation costs, it will be less allocated to other municipalities. In the case of the income system, both for the counties and for the municipalities, the centre party has voted against the scheme. It is proposed in the municipal proposal to include the grant for a clinical veterinary watch other than normal working hours in the free income of the municipalities. It is unclear what is contained in the proposal in the proposal, but if it is actually considered that the grant should be included in the general framework transfer, it would be wrong to include the margin. We are obviously dependent on a system that both takes into account the need for a veterinarian based on the amount of animals in the area and at the same time creates geographical differences. Whether there is much or little animal in an area, and whether there are few or many farms within the watch area, everyone must have access to a veterinary watch even at night and on weekends. The current system is cost-effective and desired to be continued by the Veterinary Association and agriculture. The scheme does not follow today's municipal borders, but is divided into 160 watch areas. Feedback is that it is very good and cost-effective, and it would be very unfortunate if this emergency mechanism were to be put into play. The centre party proposes to continue today's arrangement. The comments made by the government parties on the breakdown by agricultural criterion are also not accurate, as a vineyard and a farm count equally. I would also like to refer to a previous inclusion of earmarked grants, in the case of volunteer centres. The funding of voluntary centres has been allocated to the framework transfers to municipalities, with a separate breakdown in the first years. The centre party considers it problematic to change funding as it has been done, and it particularly affects the small volunteer centres located in small district municipalities with tight economic conditions. We believe that funding for volunteer centres should continue to be provided through separate distribution or through earmarked grants. The centre party is in principle positive in integrating as much of the transfers from country to municipality as possible into the general framework, but not when the distribution will be very distorted or when it implies the withdrawal of well-functioning arrangements. The government proposes to adjust the next year's income framework for municipalities by between 1 and 2 billion. kr. Estimates show that the local government sector can generate additional expenditure in 2020 of about 1.3 billion. kr. due to changes in population composition. 0.9 B.C.E. kr. this relates to services covered by the free revenues. Over the last few years, the size and government have given municipalities more tasks and new standards, including: requirements for maximum number of pupils per teacher and pedagogical norms in kindergarten. There are liabilities that cost. Furthermore, responsibility for ready-to-print patients, greater share of the cost of resource-requiring services, etc., and new teaching materials in primary school costs that will link significant parts of municipal revenues in 2020. The government does not propose to grant funds to ensure a faster introduction of learning materials in the introduction of the early 2020 school-leaving trade-news. I fear this will mean that the students and teachers will be sitting with old teaching materials, and that the students will not receive the training they are entitled to after a new curriculum. Increasing social expenditure is another post several municipalities have experienced that they have shot in the past. This is due, inter alia, to: amendment by the government of the rules on redundancy payments and housing aid. Several ports are transferred to social assistance, and these costs are passed on to the municipalities without taking it into account in the state transfers. The reality is that the government requires municipalities to solve more tasks within a reduced framework. The centre party believes it is wrong policy to starve the municipal sector. It simply means poorer services for the inhabitants. When new demands are made on municipalities and they are to be covered within existing frameworks, other sectors are affected. Since the care sector is the largest in municipalities, it is the elderly who have to pay the bill through poorer offers. The Elder Minister has recently been out talking about food for the elderly in hospital, where municipalities can now receive support to build half a kitchen. For the centre party, we are particularly concerned that the municipalities will also have the money to operate this kitchen. That's where the big costs lie. The county councils are offered a zero settlement. Their framework transfers are proposed to increase in the range of minus 200 million. NOK plus 100 million. kr. The county councils face uncertain times when they are also now in the process of county mergers, taking over new tasks from the state. The government has not outlined the financing of the new tasks for the county councils, but has announced that it will first be in the budget for the autumn. Several hearing bodies consider it extremely challenging that funding is not clear in the municipal proposal. The government's proposals for the government budget in the autumn come less than two months before the counties will take over the tasks and adopt their budgets, making planning very difficult. The government brings together counties and justifies the fact that the new regions will have a more important role to play in regional development. At the same time, the key budgetary transfers that should have gone into regional development are being reduced. Regional development funds are more than halved compared to the 2014 red-green budget proposal. This is not a matter of concern. In the autumn of 2017, we received two clear decisions requiring the government to assume that any municipal mergers during this large-scale period will be based solely on voluntary activity. Now I see that my time is running out, so then I get to take it in a later article. Finally, I would like to address the proposals of which the Central Party is part.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e237	The representative Heidi Greni has addressed the proposals to which she referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e244	It's nice for the representative, Mr. Greni, to make another comment, because maybe we can get into one of the areas that is really a problem for the small municipalities. It's about recruitment. I didn't hear the representative Greni say anything about that. I refer to a study carried out by Telemark Research, where municipalities with a population of less than 3000 have made it clear that they have major problems recruiting professionals in a wide range of areas. These include psychologists, lawyers, environmental protection and climate professionals, ergotherapy, social security and preparedness — a wide range. The centre party has been clear that the merger of municipalities is not the way to go, and has been the main force against it. My question to Mr Greni's representative is: What advice does she have for the small municipalities to solve this problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e251	The myth that it will all of a sudden be easier to recruit if the municipality is called something else is something that does not hold true. In Trysil, for example, it may be difficult to get nurses at the nursing home. There's nothing to suggest that it will change by changing the municipal structure. The nurse should work on exactly the same old-age centre in Trysil, have exactly the same tasks, have exactly the same workmates, and have the same level of competence. The only difference is that local management is 7–8 miles away, at Elverum, for example. It will be the consequence of the disappearance of skills jobs in the City Hall. Moving to Trysil will be less attractive. There will be fewer jobs to choose from for a partner who may be involved. So it's going to be a lot worse if you combine those municipalities with the older people's centre in Trysil. Then I assume that we should maintain the service close to people.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e258	The thing is that in order to get competent personnel, you have to have environments that are large enough for you to have full positions. That's what Telemark research points to as one of the main problems with this. It's hard to understand how to have whole positions if you don't also increase the population base and find solutions where you combine functions or where you strengthen the functions. I understand that the representative, Mr. Greni, doesn't think things are getting better with community mergers, but what is the alternative? What is the Council of the Center Party? That's the question. What is the Central Party's option to help more professionals spend their time in small municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e265	The Council of the Centre Party is exactly the same as it has been in all years – cooperation between municipalities, which the government sees as an abomination, is not an abomination. It's a necessity, and it just solves the challenge that the representative Thommessen is addressing. Intermunicipal cooperation strengthens service production in the narrow areas, and maintaining the municipality as its own municipality strengthens service production in the large areas – such as care for the elderly, school, kindergarten, etc. In particular, it is the local economy that is crucial if the municipalities have the ability to set up entire posts and have a basic staff so good that they can have full positions as an offer to anyone who wants it. Unfortunately, today's government has now shackled the municipalities in the economy, so it is becoming increasingly demanding, especially in the smallest municipalities, to maintain full-time policy as it stands.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e270	The central party often talks about this government centralizing. A review of the figures shows that no more farm use, more schools, more local hospitals and more maternity wards than when the Senterpartiet was last in government — in fact, on the contrary. The fact is that the unemployment rate in the districts is falling, the level of supply is rising, the rate of traffic has increased by 75 pst, and we are moving more government jobs out of Oslo. If this is called centralization, what is then called the policy that was pursued when the Senter Party was put into government?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e275	The representative may not have read a lot of newspaper headlines lately. I can't open the paper one day without seeing it centralized – there's education going down, there's going to be an ambulance, there's going to be a police station, there's not going to be any police to recover, there's a centralization of fire preparedness. All over the area, I see the exact same problem. You can't open a local view without seeing it. The myth is that the district is doing so very well. Yes, it does, despite the government's policy, because there's staying capacity in people out there, and they're clinging tight. But services and preparedness have been reduced so heavily that it is completely irresponsible when we see how it is in some areas. You have to wait two hours for the police when there is an emergency, for example. A shooting episode. You have to wait for an ambulance. There is not one municipality in the district that is now able to comply with the ambulance response time. When that offer is gone, I call it a centralization that is irresponsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e282	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e288	Let me start by saying a thousand thanks to the rapporteur for a good piece of work. This is an important document dealing with a very large sector. Strong communities and small differences make Norway Norway Norway. That separates us from a lot of other countries. The municipal sector and the organisation of welfare services here are the very foundations of small and large communities across the country. Municipalities are responsible for some of the most important services in people's lives. Municipalities are responsible for services such as large and small in the city and built use every day, whether it's the kids who go to kindergarten, the elderly who are in hospital, the people who need help to live at home as far as possible, or the young people who go to school. We have new parents who use the health center, and businesses and residents who want to develop their communities, or who, for that matter, depend on the municipal water supply. Everyone needs a municipality that provides good quality services for everyone. The framework for the development of service provision in municipalities is large-scale and government. If we see the municipal economy last year, this year and next year in context, the government's contribution to stronger welfare in the municipalities is quite limited. The government's own figures show that the average annual real growth in the free revenues of the municipal sector for the years 2018, 2019 and 2020 is 0 pst. In other words, the government, sanctioned by the majority of the population we have, suggests that the sector will not have any real growth in its free revenues in the period 2018-2020. This means that after the municipalities have paid for the wage and price increases and financed the new tasks they are charged, there are initially not five cents left to make the services better for people. By means of the government’s 2020 proposal, municipalities will actually have exactly the same income level in 2020 as they had in 2017. The government clearly believes that zero growth in the local government sector is quite fine over a three-year period. There has not been a weaker financial situation for the municipal sector in the last 15 years than the Solberg Government, with its proposal for growth in free revenues for 2020, has presented and is currently under consideration. Nevertheless, representatives of the government parties continue to claim that the local economy is better than ever. It's hardly a truth. What's right is, there's a lot of municipalities that's had a lot of profits in recent years. We are pleased about that, but it is not because of the government's own policy, because the government itself has not foreseen this. This is due to exceptional disposable income. There are tax revenues resulting from tax adaptation to new laws, there are large concession fees, there are lower demographic costs than the government has foreseen, and there are lower pension costs than is foreseen in the economic structure. This is not the money that the government has proposed to the municipalities. It is good that several municipalities have profits, and that very few are on the ROBEK list. The problem is that you can't plan the operation of kindergartens, recruit teachers or undertake activities for the lonely elderly with money you don't know when to make the budget. That would be contrary to municipal law. This is one-off money that does not provide the basis for strengthening operations, and therefore the essence of the provision of services by municipalities. It comes at the top of the fact that the majority also restricts the ability of municipalities to self-government. The action rooms of local authorities for the collection of property taxes restrict the possibility of priorities. It is clear from the municipal bill that the government will not compensate for the loss of 230 million. NOK in so-called machine tax, as promised when this change was implemented. There is, in fact, a cut in the ability of the municipal sector to provide good welfare services. The Labour Party believes that kindergarten, school, care for the elderly and health care are important services in people's everyday lives. It's one of the most important things we can spend the community's money on. In order to expand and strengthen these services, the Workers' Party believes that we need to give priority to a strong and predictable local economy. That is why, in recent years, we have consistently proposed more money to the municipalities than to the government. We do that for next year too because we have more ambitions than the government for better quality than we have today, in welfare, care and school in the municipal sector. We believe that a sharp increase in the growth in the income of municipalities and counties is required. It is a priority issue. That is why we also have different priorities. We will give priority to the community in Kommune-Norway. It's more important to us than giving big tax cuts to those who already have the most. Today, we are promoting proposals that the revenue of the local government sector in the State budget for 2020 should be increased by between 2.5 and 3 billion. kr in addition to what the government proposes in the municipal proposition for 2020. We now have a government and a large majority that goes very far in terms of privatisation and the use of competition in our common well-being. For the Workers' Party, there is the wrong way to go. We want the best care possible, not the cheapest possible, and at least it is not an objective to be as market-driven as possible. That is why we are committed to providing welfare services through Community solutions, by focusing on strong public services. We're not strangers to using market-based services as a tool, but unlike the government, it's not an end in itself to make several of our welfare services market-based. We want better care for the elderly and a more active old age that includes measures for the elderly, better food in nursing homes, investment in security technology and more and safer employees. We want to fight loneliness among the elderly. We can do this because we give priority to the big money on the most important problems. We aim to strengthen good public care. In the Workers' Party, we believe that all children should be given equal opportunities to learn well. Social differences, gender and inequality in the level of education of parents determine too much how students do it in school. The main goal in school is that all children get the knowledge they need to succeed in life. Therefore, we want two major reforms to help balance the differences and give our children better frameworks around school day: a school meal for all students and free SFO or AKS after school. The government's priority is to announce new rounds of community mergers, only a short time after completing a reform that has taken a lot of resources and has taken a lot of local attention. In some places it has also become an overwhelming discussion. The Workers' Party is in favour of community mergers where there is local support for it. That also shows the results. In the voluntary municipal mergers that we have had between 2014 and 2017, the Workers' Party ruled in most of these municipalities. We have confidence that the elected representatives and the citizens themselves can assess how best to equip municipalities to meet future challenges. Then it is not important that the county officials challenge or – as someone would say – push the municipalities into new lengthy processes of community mergers that are not really wanted. In three months' time, there will be municipal and county elections. Thousands of candidates across the country make choices with ambitions and ideas for their communities. They have a burning commitment to developing their communities. In order for them to be able to do that, to do their job, we also have to do ours. Of course, we need to provide a sound and sound framework to strengthen communities. We will give them the opportunity to realise the ambitions they have for their communities and regions. It's about giving a room for action to further develop it. It also has a democratic aspect. We believe that the government's framework for getting that kind of development is too tight. That is why we are strengthening the community's opportunities by providing a wider economic framework. We also have a growing problem today with online hot and hot air, especially in comment fields and in social media. We are facing the situation that social debaters, both politicians and ordinary people, are experiencing so much discomfort and so much of a threat that in some cases they do not choose to make their position visible in the public debate. The heat affects women, ethnic minorities, people with different religions and LHBTQI individuals to a large extent. It is of great importance that, as a society, we take care of and honor those who engage in a respectful and factual public debate. We cannot accept that individual people are raised to silence. This weakens both the individual's and our common freedom of expression, and in the long term it will undermine and weaken democracy. In a survey conducted by KS, it appears that four out of ten politicians have experienced onlineness. Despite this high proportion, few cases are reported. We also read in the media about elected representatives who have been threatened with violence and other ways. I want to commend the Mayor for her initiative to invite the parties to a meeting about how we can meet it, during the fall. But the challenge is that out of that meeting there have to be concrete proposals on how to meet this challenge in a digital future and in a public change of words that is becoming tougher and tougher. There are challenges that the Minister of Municipalities must come out of the meeting with an answer to. We from the Labour Party shall make concrete proposals. With that, I take up the proposals that the Workers' Party is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e328	The representative Eirik Sivertsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e335	The national meeting of the Workers' Party has taken too many precious promises, for which municipalities are to take responsibility. Despite the fact that the Workers' Party has promised 15 billion. In the case of companies, entrepreneurs and ordinary people, there is no increase in tax. This year, the local government sector receives well over 171 billion. kr in the framework grant. The total free income of municipalities is well over 385 billion. kr, and last year the representative Sivertsen characterised it as a starvation of the municipalities. If you compare the Labour Party's own arrangement with that of the government, the Labour Party's about half a percent more. Is it really that a change of about half a percent is what separates a fantastic municipal structure from one that is like the starvation of Norwegian municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e342	I'm glad we're back to traditional debates, where the Calculator-Right comes out and checks out the suggestions of other parties. First of all, we have a clear political view that strengthening the community, rather than weakening it, is the right way to go. We believe that the good services we have today are the result of many years of clear priority that it is through the community that we get at solutions that are universally available at an affordable price, so that everyone can benefit from it. It has a value in itself. The representative – or the representative should know – then knows that not all policy measures have been fully financed in the first year. We will continue to develop and build society on stone, as we have done. That is why we give priority to some proposals every year. But if you add up the framework we've indicated for the municipal sector in the period that the Solberg government has been running, it'll be billions of dollars a year, which would finance much better quality and a lot of other measures than what the Right Government is doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e349	It is true that the Labour Party itself is aware that they do not fully fund or implement all the promises they have made at their national meeting. But I have to assume, since the representative Sivertsen chooses not to answer what I am asking for, that there is no difference between the Labour Party and the government's proposal for community arrangements that separates a fantastic budget from one that is like starving the municipalities. But if we look at it in a slightly different way – you can use other indicators, which show that things are going pretty well in the municipal sector: look at the number of municipalities on the ROBEK list under state administration. This year, we are likely to get down to record 10 municipalities on the ROBEK list. It says something about the community sector being able to deliver good services to people where they live. Does Sivertsen think it is good or bad that there are fewer municipalities on the ROBEK list now than when his own party was in government?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e354	This shows what happens when you come up with completed lines and do not listen to the article. I can repeat what I said in the post: we have very few municipalities on the ROBEK list. We're happy about that. But the representative should also have the reason why. It's not because of the government's policy. This is because municipalities have received money, and the government believed that the municipalities should not receive it. So there are unforeseen lower costs and unexpected very high revenues. Reasonable as it is — when one cannot plan to strengthen operations, as could be done with the Workers’ Party’s arrangements — the municipalities have prioritised paying off debts and ensuring that they come out of the ROBEK list. I'm very happy about that. So it's like I've never said that we're not going to complete it. What I said is that the Workers' Party's financial arrangement provides room for a community investment. We're going to do what we've always done, as we see today's result: we put stones on rocks and start one place, we're going to build reforms done – because we have more ambitions for the community than what the Right has.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e361	Unforeseen income could be lost if the government hadn't followed up with good budgets, so it would be a little simple. The growth of the free income per capita has been slightly higher during this government than under the red-green government. The results for the municipalities are very good, and have been so for several years. In addition, as it has been noted, we have record few municipalities in ROBEK. So the municipalities are doing very well. Nevertheless, the Workers' Party believes that the municipalities receive far too little income and promote in opposition more to the municipalities. Why didn't the party promote these additions by billions of dollars the years they actually had the opportunity to realize such additions?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e368	To the last one, that's not right. When we were in government, we had additions and growth in the free incomes every year. The average consideration was higher than what this government has put up to. Then I have said repeatedly that I am pleased with the results in the municipal sector. I am pleased that the ROBEK register contains as little as possible – preferably no municipalities would stand there. But the reason that there is fewer is not the government’s policy – despite the government’s policy. I have now explained this several times. Then I notice that the representative is concerned that the unforeseen income might fall away. No, these are tax revenues. Should they have fallen away, the government must have decided to drag them in. I'm glad they haven't, because there's a need for more money in the municipal sector. That's why we've done what we did every year when we were in government: we've strengthened the local authorities' operating space. We've done it every year, because we think that the government is adding up to – a zero growth over the last three years – is too bad for the municipal sector. That's what the Progress Party thinks is good enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e377	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e382	There is good growth in the Norwegian economy. The unemployment rate goes down, and the national average is now down to 2.3 pst. This is significantly lower than the average over the last 20 years. So the government's economic policy has absolutely contributed to the recovery. The government has given priority to the local government sector, and this, together with high tax revenues and good local governance, has contributed to the good results we see in the local government sector. The tax estimate has also been adjusted for the current year by 1.5 billion. kr. It's a good sign, but it's alarming that cost growth increases by 1 billion at the same time. kr for goods and services. There are some grey clouds in the sky: the demographics will increase in the future. The proportion of economically active persons per pensioner or beneficiary falls. There will be fewer to contribute to the budget and even more to live on from the budget. Therefore, public service development and conversion are important. Community reform must be continued, and efforts to improve efficiency at all levels must be made. It provides good results on both quality and resource use. If we achieve half a percent efficiency improvement in 2020, it will amount to 1.3 billion. kr that we can use for other services for our inhabitants. Nevertheless, despite the goal of efficiency improvement, the government of Solberg has increased the free income of the municipal sector by about 30 billion. kr since she joined. Updated preliminary figures show an average annual growth in the free income of the municipal sector per capita of 0.7 pst. for the period 2013-2018. In 2018, the municipal sector as a whole received a net operating surplus of 2,7 pst. of the revenue. This is higher than the TBU recommendation. The good operating results in recent years have led to a sharp decline in the number of ROBEK municipalities, which many have mentioned here today. At the beginning of May 2019, a total of 16 municipalities were registered on the ROBEK list – that is the lowest number ever. The 2018 accounting figure requires the number to go further down, to perhaps about ten municipalities, once the local government has agreed to the 2018 annual accounts. The growth proposed in the municipal proposal for 2020 needs to be seen in the light of an expected lower growth in demographic and pension costs in 2020. In Storting these days, we also deal with revised budgets, and here, too, we are investing in municipal services: several day care centres, local kitchens in the municipalities, green shipping, which will benefit municipalities, and not least housing support for families with children, which is increasing, so that more people get. It's also worth $90 million. kr i compensation for changes to the AAP scheme. Although the municipal sector in general has good results and produces good services, we also need to equip ourselves for the future. The government has received a report from Telemarksforschering on how small municipalities with fewer than 3000 inhabitants solve their general government deficits. The report concludes that small municipalities are struggling to acquire competences in several important areas. It's not just telemark research that says this, it's the municipalities themselves that say it. It's between 19 pst. and 51 pst. by the municipalities which say they do not have sufficient access to competence on the basis of the need, the cork in their own organisation, through cooperation or through the purchase of services. That's 69 pst. by the municipalities in the investigation, which do not think they have enough capacity to carry out planning and development work. 51 pst. of the municipalities with less than 3000 inhabitants, missing psychologist, 41 pst. missing legal entities, 38 pst. lack of competence in environmental protection and climate, 32 pst. in the field of social security and preparedness and 28 pst. in the field of social planning. – That's how I can go on. The list is a long time ahead of responsibility that the municipalities themselves don't think can cope with. This is alarming and should also be more concerned about the opposition here in the Storting. We have in this room agreed a municipal consultation, which is to be a good tool in this case, and which is to be voluntary, but I doubt whether all the residents have voluntarily disclaimed the right to the services they are entitled to by law in this room. Therefore, in the view of the Right, one must work more with the local reform and one must require considerable efforts from municipalities, local politicians and statesmen. So it's gratifying to see that in the proposition, there was a good economic tool that was announced next year in order to carry on the municipal reform, and that supports Right well below.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e405	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e411	The government has prioritised the municipal economy, says Trellevik, and boasts very much of it. We have also heard before that they believe that you can now remove property taxes etc. Therefore, I would like to ask the representative Trellevik a little about the property tax. We see that Whaler, with long-standing party and right-wing rule, now tops the list of those who charge property taxes. They are on top, with more than NOK 8 000 in property taxes on average per capita. Does Trellevik think that the Progress Party and the Right Party of Whales are wasting Hyler's framework transfers when they have to make use of property taxes? Is Whaler ineffectively controlled by the Advance Party and the Right? Is it the case that the Advance Party and the Right Party of Whales impose a property tax on the inhabitants of Whaler for no reason?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e418	Property taxes or local taxes must be localised if you want to apply them. So it's that different municipalities have different challenges and different priorities that they want to realise. I do not know the reason when it relates to the municipality that the representative mentions, but I see from the statistics from the SSB that, overall, the bourgeois parties have had a reduction in the tax on ownership in the period from 2015 until the current date. I also see that there is a large increase among the red-green parties with a view to introducing more property taxes in Norway. For more information, see the Newspaper in the next few days.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e425	Whether you are in favour of, or against, aggregation, it is necessary to recognise that an administrative breakdown in different areas of society affects what Norway looks like. All municipalities of any size have at least one school, at least one kindergarten and an elderly care centre, but there are many ex-municipalities that are free of all basic services – yes, there are even those who are free of people. In fact, many district municipalities have suffered a decline in the population, but those who have maintained their independence have in every way proven to be infinitely better than the people who lost it and suffered the inability to be voiced in voiced outbursts of large municipalities. The merger of agglomerations in Norway is thus a study of the effects of previous clustering rounds. If the Right rhetoric were to be used, Ullsfjord should have benefited from the synergies of the city: easier recruitment and increased value creation. While Tromsø near has tripled its population since 1964, it has been a halve for Sjursnes. One might say that aggregation is the right medicine, but does the Right deny that it also means centralization and a different Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e436	It's kind of a question of how to define centralization. It's like this in the region that I come from, that there are three municipalities that merge into one large municipality. When we lay down three municipal buildings and create one, it becomes a form of centralization for the municipal building, it is. But we're still going to have decentralised services, we're still going to have schools in our towns, we're going to have seniority centres in the old municipalities, we're going to still have home services at people's homes, where they live. So I'm not in that rhetoric that a municipal merger would result in a centralization of the services. There is a better use of the competences in municipalities, it is easier to acquire skills, and it is easier to meet the expectations of Stortinget when we define and adopt laws here in this room as to how the services should be in the municipalities. It will be much easier for municipalities to meet the expectations of Stortinget for service production.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e443	First, I would like to advise the representative Trellevik that he checks his own script. He says that there are several people who get housing support, but on the contrary, the government in the revision shows that there are 3 100 fewer who get housing support for the next year, so it is simply not right. The representative is concerned that the municipalities are struggling with competence. How are we going to help them with that? There is an SV proposal that will address this issue, namely to increase the possibility of decentralised higher education across the country. Where we've done it, we've done it with great luck. I've been working on this for over 30 years now, so I have good experience with that. On average, adult employees taking such training also do very well, and they acquire skills for both private and public sectors. Why does the Right do not agree with the SV that we need to increase efforts at decentralised higher education, and that it might be the most important thing we can do now to remedy what the representative says he is concerned about?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e452	First, for housing. The volume of resources and funds has increased significantly, and there is a commitment to this in the revised budget. So it's like some people go out of service or need, while others at the other end get access to it. So this is how the width expands, as I see it. What's most important here is that those who need it the most, actually get the opportunity to participate in it in a better and broader way. Education is very important, perhaps the most important district policy. When young people go to school, there is often a place where educational opportunities are, so it is a very important part of district policy to have a decentralised education in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e459	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e464	Municipalities are important for people's lives and everyday lives. It is the municipalities that provide the local services, care, care, school, kindergarten and leisure. A strong local government gives peoples and communities freedom and the ability to control their own everyday life and their own social development. At least that's what we're saying from this pulpit. The world is changing, Norway is changing, and we people are changing. We live differently, we want other things, and we expect more as research and technology evolves. Municipalities depend on keeping up with this development if they are to be able to maintain a municipality in which people want to live and live. Community reform has been important and necessary for many communities and must continue. From 1 January 2020 we will have 356 municipalities in Norway, as a result of municipal mergers. At the turn of the year, one of three inhabitants will belong to a new municipality. About half of the country's municipalities will still have fewer than 5,000 inhabitants, and more than 120 municipalities will have fewer than 3000. These are municipalities that are too small in the long term to be able to provide what the citizens want and expect, which in turn will lead to that the performance of the municipal tasks cannot be done in a satisfactory way. For a transitional period, municipalities shall be compensated for the loss of basic supplements and regional grants resulting from the bundling. At the same time, NOK 200000 will be provided in support if two municipalities want to investigate aggregation, and another NOK 50 000 if more than two municipalities want to investigate aggregation. It will also be possible to obtain up to DKK 100000 for each municipality that produces information and implements public hearings. It's going very well in the Norwegian economy. More people come to work, and the growth is high. Investment in continental holdings has not been stronger in ten years. The positive development seems to continue in the future. Since the accession of the government of Solberg in 2013, the free revenues of the municipal sector have increased by around 30 billion. kr. Updated preliminary figures show an average annual growth in the free income of the local government sector per capita of 0,7 pst. in this period, against 0,6 pst. for the period 2005 to 2013. In 2018, the local government sector as a whole received a net operating surplus of 2,7 pst. of the revenue. This is higher than the TBU recommendation. The good operating results in recent years have led to a sharp decline in the number of municipalities in ROBEK. At the beginning of May 2019, a total of 16 municipalities were registered in ROBEK, the lowest number ever. The figures for 2018 suggest that the number can decrease further, to around 10 municipalities. The growth proposed in the municipal proposition for 2020 must be seen in the light of the assumption of low growth in demographic and pension costs. Then I find that the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre believe that a growth in the free income of municipalities slightly higher than under the red-green government means that the government prioritises school, care for the elderly and other important welfare services in the municipalities. These parties not only speak down their own period of government, but also talk down on the intentions and priorities of local politicians. They claim that if a local politician has a tight budget, they will automatically reduce the most important things first and again, such as Hamar, who spent millions on a diving tower, or Kristiansand’s priority of an art silo. I need to underline, once again, what has been said and written many times: we are not going to force municipal mergers. There may be some parties that stop talking about it, but obviously some municipalities feel it's a coercion when they realize that it's too difficult to stand alone. Economically, the government contributes to a real growth in free income for municipalities between 1 and 2 billion. kr. The counties are allocated to a real growth in free income of minus 0,2 to 0,1 billion. kr. The real growth of total municipal income is estimated at between 0.2 and 1.5 billion. kr. It's equal to a growth of 0 and 0.3 pst. The municipal sector is largely financed through framework grants and tax revenues, as well as earmarked grants, VAT compensation, fees, interest and dividends. Efficiency can increase the room for action in the municipal budgets. Over the period 2008–2017, overall efficiency improvements in the kindergarten, primary and care sectors have increased by about 0.3 pst. per year. Analysis from the Centre for Economic Research shows that for kindergarten, primary school and care care as a whole, there is an efficiency potential of 12 p.p., which means that it can be released about 30 billion. kr to strengthen the service provision. So 0.5 pst. absolutely a realistic target, which could release 1.3 billion. DKK for service production in municipalities. Framework management of the municipal sector shall contribute to the efficient use of public resources and to the optimum provision of citizens within the given financial framework. Freedom to do its own priorities is important to our local politicians. There has been a great deal of agreement about this in this room until it comes to individual areas. I'd like to admit, when the Municipality of Oslo gets $246 million. NOK to work in the waste water field and chooses to use SEK 43.5 million. kr of these to completely different things, I get angry and frustrated. I immediately think that these means should have been earmarked. In this case and many other cases, Stortinget has dealt with so many proposals that if all of these had been adopted, there would have been zero room for action for our municipalities. On 22 June 2018, Stortinget adopted a new municipal law, which will mainly take effect in connection with the formation of the individual municipal government and county council after the autumn elections. In the new municipal law, we have legalized municipal autonomy. It also aims to achieve a reduction in the number of earmarked grant schemes, which is supported by all parties with the exception of SV. Twelve grants are planned for 2020. But even though all parties say that it is important to cut the number of earmarked grants, the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party still oppose the inclusion of several of these when they come to their assessment. Earmarks the opposition will not include are veterinary guards, housing social grants from the House Bank, grants for regional measures for the development of business environments, the teaching norm, volunteer centres, day-time activities for dementes, psychologists, to name a few – in principle little freedom for municipalities to trace from the opposition. When we took over in government, there were psychologists available in less than half of all municipalities. After giving grants for this over several years, we've had a huge growth of municipalities with psychologists. From next year all municipalities have to have such an offer, and the smart ones have until now had great economic benefits of having been out early. The same can be said of day care for demented people. Despite the fact that this has been legislated – the law will soon come into force – despite the fact that it is in the best interests of the dent, the relatives and the municipality’s economy to have such an offer, and despite the fact that it has been a grant scheme for several years, the number of places has increased very slowly. This shows that funding does not always work either. Since I was the head of the Health and Care Committee in the previous period, I have traveled around the country and the beach and gave lectures on health, care and care. I've always framed a bunch of grant schemes that we've put in place, and asked if they know them. Surprisingly, many municipalities do not know all the grant schemes. They seem to be demanding to find out all the schemes in place, to make applications and then to report on the use of the grant. These arrangements seem to be a little too bureaucratic, and are also not perceived as fair. The Labour Party points out that the main demographic challenge facing municipalities is the sharp increase in the number of older people, that this requires local authorities to be stimulated to expand the supply with sufficient coverage and that the finances of municipalities are strengthened. I'm really wondering what you mean by this. The Labour Party-led Oslo is running with record profits, and the state takes up to 70 pst. the cost of building the day care facilities of the lucky days. Still, you cut the offer. There's obviously not a lack of state intervention, but of municipal priorities and ideology. SV indicates that the difference between the parties is about how high priority one will be for welfare, and I fully agree with that. We demand that municipalities now offer various professions such as psychologist, midwife, physiotherapist and ergot therapist. The result of the removal of this requirement by the red-green government shows that in some cases the law is necessary. At the same time, I react to the claim that there is really no room for either the quality or the volume necessary to meet the needs of the citizens or the quality requirements of the legislation and other governance documents. Of course it is. The Progress Party has great faith in its local politicians. We know that our people are voting against tumultuous plans and unnecessary projects, for the sake of the important tasks. That's why we also invite private people to offer their services, as we have seen that the quality goes up and costs go down when different actors are measured against each other, but not least because it gives citizens diversity and freedom of choice. At the same time as the municipal bill, the government presented the revised national budget for 2019. It shows that the municipal sector’s tax revenue in 2018 was 2.3 billion. kr higher than the national budget estimated in 2019. In recent years, the government has underestimated the tax growth of the municipal sector. Despite the fact that the government is constantly cutting the tax for the most people, payments are increasing more than expected. This shows that our country is doing well and that the policy is working. Some county councils have been adopted together, and these are now in an important and demanding phase of merger work. For the tasks to be transferred from 2020, the government will come back with this in the draft budget for 2020. It is important that there is now maximum predictability for county municipalities, both in terms of organisation and funding. The increase in the framework transfers to county councils shall enable them to carry out their tasks properly. The transfer of tasks to county municipalities will initially be followed by framework transfers within an unchanged expenditure side of the state budget, where current use of resources in the state is transferred to county municipalities. For each task, it is also considered whether there is a need for adjustments in the income system of county councils. The government has changed the cost key for the counties to make the income system unbundling neutral. This will result in the aggregations in 2020 not in themselves resulting in distribution effects between county municipalities. Too many parties resort to increased taxes every time they want to do something. Without considering that many people are put in a hopeless situation, property taxes are introduced rather than looked at how the municipality operates. The introduction of property taxes is the simplest way out, and once introduced it tends to increase more and more. For me, property taxes are about laxity. Very many municipalities operate equally good or better services without property taxes. These municipalities have a conscious relationship with driving efficiently and thinking outside the box. Residents who live in a municipality without property taxes have local politicians who work hard to protect their inhabitants from an unsocial tax on people's homes, and they run their municipality well. The property tax was 3.1 pst. of the revenues of the municipalities in 2018 and is thus a small part of the large picture. Today, 288 out of 422 municipalities have property taxes on housing. Fortunately, the growth has now begun to flatten out. Then I find that the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre are still fighting against the trial project with state funding of the care services. It's interesting that these parties at Stortinget say and believe the opposite of what you say in the municipalities that participate. These municipalities are very satisfied, they have all received better services and have all asked for the attempt to be extended. The poverty of families with children is a challenge today, as under the previous government. The municipalities are taking different measures, so is the government. We have increased child welfare, increased housing support, introduced free kindergarten, free holiday services, free leisure, and these are schemes that mean a lot to many families. The fact is that this represents a lot of money, the amount that other families do not receive, as they are listed with a slightly higher income. But this also means that many people who are on paper with low income actually have more to walk with than others who are not in this category. This is a very under-communicated issue that I miss a political debate around. You have a tendency to look at income blindly without looking at the extra benefits. The level of social assistance is a recurring debate. It is important to remember that here the municipalities are free to have liberal arrangements if they want to. They may choose not to include child benefits, and they are free to refrain from making any exceptional payments made by the State. – Here the representative has miscalculated the time, violently.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e527	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e532	Norway is built on the following social foundations: No matter where you live in the country, and the size of your wallet, you should have access to a good welfare society. And regardless of where you live in the country, you need access to local services to ensure the security of the population, such as police and preparedness. Both of these areas are challenged by today's government. The progress party promised that there would be no toll when they came into government. The party of progress is now the king of tolls. They promised that there would be no property tax if they joined the government. In today's Newspaper we can read that the Advance Party is the king of property taxes. We must also note that the Progress Party is the king of centralisation. For while there have been 4,000 more state jobs here in Oslo, there have been fewer government jobs in very many districts. And it's wrong that the red-greens didn't move out state jobs. We also have a government that says that you want to change the income system to force the municipalities to merge. Why?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e539	I think the representative has been in politics for so long that he is aware that all parties go to elections on his own party program. That means that the Progress Party is going to choose to remove the property tax, and that we are going to choose to remove the bombs. After taking over local government and big business, that's what we're working for. In the case of tolls, the Progress Party votes against all urban packages throughout the country. I also believe that most people have found that these are locally agreed tolls and that no progress has been made. We promised to build a lot more way. We do that, and we increase it by 75 pst. So that's where we've fulfilled. But we haven't been able to satisfy to remove all the bombs. As far as property taxes are concerned, we see that we are unable to stop the municipalities, so we have proposed changes to the law in Stortinget to reduce property taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e551	Although the representative felt that she was running out of speaking time, it is at least enough to take off. I noticed that you have a slightly special calculation – that fewer municipalities automatically provide several municipalities with the same number of psychologists. It was supposed to be missing, but the big question that the representative did not answer was really: Is there any more offer? We're talking about one bag of money for Norway, and so we're going to develop the whole country within the possibilities that it offers. I noticed that the representative believes that the Progress Party knows best how to do so in the different municipalities. It is contrary to the otherwise agreed position of the representative, namely that the local authority should be governed by framework management. I want the representative to say something more about how you think you should be able to make sure that the municipalities and the counties are able to deliver the services they need, and not least invest in the future with the financial arrangement that the government is putting up with.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e562	The municipalities are very different. They've been very different. Some people have very upgraded offers, i.e. new schools, new kindergartens and good waterworks. They need less money for investments and may not have a lot of money on the book because they have invested that money. Other municipalities have a lot of money on their books, but they also have many things to clean up. The point is that overall the municipalities are doing well. Municipalities are able to provide the services to them, but they have different priorities. If you go in and look at individual municipalities that cut very high in the care of the elderly, they might cut worse in school. But then they have focused on care for the elderly. That's how the municipalities operate. They run differently. But they are also built up by different political ideologies. Some municipalities are governed by the Right and Advance Party and use a lot of competitive outsourcing and competitive advantage, while others do not.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e567	There was quite a lot in glass houses of the post of the Progress Party now, especially when the representative eventually points to municipalities run by the Right Party and the Advance Party. Yes, they choose – they top off on property taxes. This shows that the Progress Party will not do so. And the Progress Party is in favour of all these tolls, including the Stortinget. You even suggest it, so pretending you're not for it – to say it like that: Everyone but the Progress Party sees it. But the Progress Party invites people to join and pay taxes to, for example, those who run kindergartens, childcare and care for the elderly shall be able to make money in it. That's SV against. We believe that people pay enough taxes, and that the money we give to kindergarten, child protection and elderly care should go to the services and not to the profits of anyone who owns a limited liability company. What is the reason why the Progress Party believes that people have to pay taxes?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e574	Only quickly into the property tax. The party to the progress has not voted in favour of the introduction of property taxes. But when you are a rapporteur, you have to drive a municipality according to what the majority has decided. The city packages are localized, and we don't overrun the local majority decision here in Stortingen, we don't do that now. To care providers. When you are able to offer a good service, many times better than the municipal -- it gives freedom of choice and they run cheaper -- and also manages to make dividends, it's an institution that I have a great admiration for. But the point is that even if they take dividends, it's cheaper for the municipality. We have seen that when the Swedish Labour Party and the Swedish Labour Party recommunerate in the municipalities, they need to spend a lot more money, and they get a worse service.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e581	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e586	For SV, local economy is one of the most important issues, for it concerns everyone. It's about good school and safe care for the elderly, it's about child protection, and it's about all the important things in everyday life, both for people and for business. Therefore, we propose to increase the local government framework by between 5 and 5.5 billion. kr more than the government. That doesn't mean that all the sorrows are off, but it will mean a much better chance for the municipalities to realize good quality. Speaking of the last line change here: yes, SV is actually concerned that those who do the job, those who work at school, those who work in the protection of children, those who work in the care of the elderly, have a real wage and a real pension. I record that it doesn't matter, among other things. It's about the progress party. But it does, because we believe it is absolutely essential to ensure that we have high quality and good stability in this, and that people should be able to live on their jobs. And more people are needed. The Nursing Association has said that we need 6,000 nurses today. We know that a lot of skilled teachers are missing in school. Child protection needs more investment, and we need a greater investment in low-threshold psychiatric services in municipalities, because it works. SV is occupied by people and not markets. Therefore, we are profit-making in welfare. We are also for the future and not for pollution. That is why we believe that municipalities need to be able to take climate responsibility, i.e. reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and also to take responsibility for preventing extreme weather, because we know that. The last thing is to take better care of the natural qualities we have, because we know they're threatened now, that shows our latest reports. Studies also show that these are interests that fall under the municipal planning processes. Soil protection and nature protection are falling through. We have to take responsibility that it no longer happens. Then we have to make sure that the municipalities have finances for it and that they have competence for it. Therefore, the Swedish authorities also promote proposals that municipalities should have finances for this and that they should have competence in these areas. We also strengthen decentralised higher education across the country and do not lay down places of study, as there is a risk of happening now under this government. For county municipalities, the situation is quite serious now. It may not be so strange, for the government, which is implementing this coercion reform, has also said openly, several times, that this is the first step in bringing down the county municipalities. Now you get new tasks that are not funded. The second is that the county councils, which operate public transport, are among those who have the opportunity to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in Norway strongly by requiring zero emissions in new contracts, both for boat and ferry and other public transport. Many county councils have gone ahead and done a great job here, but the costs of a transitional phase will be large. It would be worthwhile for the government to put that money on the table, so that no new contracts are entered into without this requirement being made. At the same time, we will develop a competitive business that we can live from in the future. Why the government doesn't agree with that is hard to understand. In addition to this, it is intended to include the development funds of the county councils in the framework, at the same time as halving them. This means that the county councils have no opportunity to fill the role they are told to have. It's serious. SV promotes many suggestions in this setting, and I address those we are behind alone. Finally, I would like to mention that the situation for the local government sector is very serious in order to achieve a better cushioning and social policy. The government's cut in the AAP scheme and the fact that housing support has been severely weakened in recent years – there are many fewer who get, and those who get are getting less of their expenditures covered, and very many have fallen out of the scheme – means that the local government sector has received a large increase in expenditure. So they're going to take care of these people and, in the government's view, they're also going to make arrangements for them to get to work when the government's apparatus hasn't done it. They also have to make sure that they have a roof over their heads and food on the table. These are large costs for the local government sector that the government has not compensated for at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e605	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e612	The representative claimed that, for example: The AAP scheme was underfunded. Now, the KOSTRA figures are the basis for the government and the Storting's priorities in the revised budget, so one has not been up-to-date and gave the correct figures in the municipalities. But what I want to address is a remark that the municipalities were unable to take environmental protection and take good care of the natural disaster. There are a lot of municipalities in the research we've had that point to just these challenges. And that's not money it's on. They're missing people. In your own organisation, one has not received this. They can't get these people by cooperation, and they can't do it by buying services externally. Then there is one left without being able to solve the tasks that are required by the law. My question is: Will SV contribute to the municipal reform being put on the agenda in Kommune-Noreg?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e621	There is nothing to suggest that there will be more of these professionals by merging municipalities. SV is for a cooperation, we don't have the least against it, but we've pointed this out as a serious problem for a very long time. This is why we also point out that there is a need to educate more people in these very important disciplines that the municipalities and local authorities need in the future. But the serious problem is that this government has also said that the municipalities and the county should place less emphasis on objections to these plans, by placing less emphasis on the protection of the climate, the protection of nature, the protection of soil, of food soils, ahead of what has been done before. So we see the result of that. This policy then weakens. So here's a dangerous mix of lack of municipal competence and government governance that makes climate, environment and nature lose.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e626	When the Municipality of Oslo demanded a huge increase in the rent in municipal dwellings, SV suggested that it should not do so. When Nittedal municipality wanted to significantly restrict the BPA scheme, SV suggested that the State should take over the financing of BPA. The examples are many in detail management, but have one thing in common: this happens after cases in municipalities controlled by SV. Has SV’s ageing group considered talking to its municipal politicians rather than transferring all governance to the state?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e633	Yes, we're talking to them all the time, and I'm also saying my heart's opinion on these matters. I believe – I hope at least – that the representative of Kønaas Kjos and I agree that the BPA system needs stronger government governance, because as it is now, there are completely unreasonable differences between municipalities. So there's no doubt that it should change. In terms of rent, SV believes that there is no good arrangement for municipalities, and that, on the contrary, there should be social housing, precisely because very many of those who live in them have a given income, namely disability benefit. It is then known that they have no opportunity to pay high rent – precisely because this government has also severely weakened housing support and voted against SV’s proposal that those who have disability benefits, including young people who are disabled, should be given the opportunity to receive housing support. Then you can get a funding that allows these people to live safely as well. That's what SV is working for.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e641	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e646	I would like to take the introduction to my post last year about the municipal proposition for the current year: it's going well in Municipality-Norway, better and better, actually. Once again we see that there will be fewer and fewer ROBEK municipalities, and again we see that the economic governance of the municipalities is good. I would like to undertake the task of being generous to our red-green friends in the opposition and say that this has been the trend in recent years, even under the red-green regime. The growth in free income of municipalities has been as strong under bourgeois rule as it was under the red-green. That's because we give the municipalities room to provide good services to their inhabitants. It is a coherent policy for it: economic conditions that govern the municipalities to solve their tasks, provide their services and the small extra to create good arenas for well-being and cohesion in the community. There is a great deal of political consensus in Norway about funds and support for our municipalities. What separates us from the opposition, in my opinion, is a greater degree of long-term thinking. Municipal Report offered 15 January this year for a joyful reading. In the newspaper’s local policy survey one found that almost half of the local politicians in Norway who do not merge from 2020 believe that their municipality should do so in the foreseeable future. Not unexpectedly, the bourgeois parties had a majority to believe this. Representatives from the bourgeois parties were also the ones who were most pleased with the regional reform in their country. 20 pst. by the politicians of the Central Party want to join forces in the foreseeable future. 74 pst. by the municipal politicians of the Central Party were dissatisfied with the regional reform in their counties. I mentioned instead long-term thinking. For years we've heard arguments from the Center Party that can make us think that small municipalities have better conditions to rule than the big ones. When we talk about large municipalities, it's going to be no more than a population of 5,000 until local and national centre parties steal and it doesn't think it's how alienated a citizen will feel in such a municipality. You're in love with the word centralization. For several years we have seen arguments that the regional reform is heading downwards on our local peoples, and that misery will never end. That's why I meet gently in 2020, because I believe in a more satisfactory municipality of Norway. Several municipalities will be equipped to address the major challenges ahead of them. Several municipalities are going to offer skills that have not been available in the past, simply because they have lacked people. The Minister for Digitalisation presented Norway’s new digitalisation strategy last Tuesday. Those who still buy the argument about the value of proximity to town hall should read it with great interest. It has been shown that for some centralisation is a centralization in their own living room, with PC or mobile. Several tasks can now be solved digitally. It provides seamless services with more cross-public sharing of data. In order to develop and operate this locally, more heads with the right competence are needed in each municipality. Or as the project leader for the digitisation of new solutions in Sandefjord expressed it: ‘Setting on digitisation in Sandefjord will not be possible without a community merger’. Here we're talking about a municipality that was initially significantly larger than the minority municipalities in this room won't merge. I look forward to the good news from merged municipalities ticking in. So far, we've been debating, thinking and arguing about something that a person really doesn't know about, so for my part, I think 2020 will provide good municipal news with clear examples of winnings of mergers. Not least, I believe that this also leads to several municipalities following. The government promises good support to those who want to look at the possibilities of mergers, and to those who will eventually implement them. But now let's not get involved in the debate on Kommune-Norge – sometimes I have done it myself, and if I engage in powerful debates, I'd like to be moved by the opposition's absolutes. At the end of the seventh, municipal policy is about people. Most of us record national news with a random strip on our mobile phone or a newscast. What you really care about, actually moves locally, the challenges that meet us at home, where we actually live. Our communities are usually the hubs of the world – whether we protect what we have, or turn our backs on change. All scientific research on change processes shows that we know what we have, but not what we get. With good prospects in the municipal proposition, which has addressed what lies ahead of us, I also hope for a shift in the debate. I accept the short-term gain that lies in playing on people's fear of change. At the same time, I hope that someone will take over the realities ahead of us. All honours to the municipalities and counties who have worked hard with mergers by 2020. I look forward to how the Center Party will address the positive gain the municipalities will experience when the result comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e671	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e676	The regional reform is going down on people's heads, says the representative of Skjelstad. Yeah, it's hitting the nail right on the head. The left has been enthusiastic about the coercion of the states, which has resulted in a completely illogical and hopeless state geography with a gigantic fold, while, for example, More and Romesdal and Rogaland shall stand alone with their population. Then we see that now the Viking gets alerted cut in his transfers – call it morning gift – from the Left and the Government. Then I have to ask the representative of Skelstad: why does Left think that it is cutting the transfers to e.g. The Week will provide citizens with better services, e.g.: in secondary and dental education? Eastfold has free PCs for its students in high school, and that offer is now at risk of being cut out because of cuts in the economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e681	I have an approximate view of what I said, and I did not say that it was «standing down», as the representative Lauvås pointed out. But it's not going to come from that in his state, Eastfold, there were even shared views in his party; it was just a small majority who didn't want the Viking. The fold – and the Viking construction – is nothing larger than other states. There are several people living there, but geographically there is nothing bigger. I understand that the representative Lauvås believes that this is his hub, but I believe that instead of criticising, as Lauvås also did during the previous period, one should perhaps look at the room for opportunity – and not least the room for opportunity by moving out state jobs, something the representative Lauvås initially agrees with, but in this room he has shown something quite different.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e688	I expect that we agree that significant parts of the reduction in greenhouse gas emissions in the years ahead must be taken into account in the transport sector. Municipalities are responsible for public transport in the counties, and they are central to the work on more climate-friendly solutions. It is fully in line with the Storting decision, and it will be important for us to be able to achieve the climate objectives. County councils have made large investments in low- and zero-emission ferries, boats and buses, and they are left with a bill of hundreds of millions. However, the government chooses to cut transfers to the county councils – all the way to the leg. Does the representative believe that the counties will be less ambitious in reducing greenhouse gas emissions, or does the representative believe that the county councils will have to lay down secondary schools and centralise them in order to finance the green shift? Or does the representative believe that the county councils need to be guaranteed funding in the future that will enable them to continue the good work on the green conversion of public transport that the counties have done up to now?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e693	In view of what Mr. Greni says here, I would like to point out the following: Had the Central Party wanted more competence through the counties, i.e. larger municipalities and powerful counties – what we are doing now – it is part of the answer to this. Of course, we agree on the green transition, but then it is important that the county is dealt with, for example. together with road administration, which I had initially believed the Centre Party had applauded, that there was more power to make valuable contributions locally in view of the climate struggle. I thought the representative agreed. When you combine county municipalities, you have to expect some kind of contraction. You have to assume that you get an administrative gain by merging multiples.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e704	The last answer shows that the Left believes that efficiency gains should be taken out before they are realised – and everyone knows that conversion processes cost. So that's what I thought was to let the cats out of the bag. The left likes to call itself an environmental party. County municipalities have the opportunity to be some of those who contribute to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by providing a public service with zero-emission technology. Some states have started it, and it is very good, but they refer to figures that show that this costs significantly more during a transitional period, until these markets are developed. This applies to ferry and boat, but it also applies to bus traffic in the rest of the country. Therefore, SV has proposed that tenders for county ferry and boat operations should be based on zero emissions and that the income system for the counties should finance the necessary conversion to zero emission solutions for public transport. Why doesn't the Left agree with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e711	A little history of the county council and not least the roads: when the red-greens rushed – and we have to go back to their regional reform – the old highways were placed on the county councils, including some ferries. This meant that the cost of the county councils was 40 pst. higher, especially for ferry and boat. This has led to some challenges in thinking modern and environmentally correct. Then I agree with Andersen's representative that, of course, we're going to make such demands, and we're not least looking at the West that you're at the height of getting into it. In my own country, too, you are. I believe that precisely by giving the states more power, they will also have their hands on the wheel in terms of thinking environmentally correctly – what SV has opposed in terms of municipal aggregation, earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e716	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e722	This is an important debate. In this debate, about any topic can be addressed because it is the municipal sector that is responsible for it. But the debate is highly predictable. The opposition has a great deal of money and resources every time, and the position should sit and hold back. When the opposition and the position change places, the roles are exactly the same. It's an exciting dynamic. It is going well in the Norwegian municipal sector, but we have to cover ourselves in a bit tighter times. In fact, it is important to communicate this out, because if this room creates unrealistic expectations about what local politicians can solve, the key is political contempt and longer distance between those who decide and those who accept the services. There is an increase in the local authorities' room for action on free income next year, for both municipalities and county municipalities, but there are certainly many tasks to be filled in. And there's a great eagerness among us at Stortinget to tell us how to use the money. Then we can discuss the extent to which the space for action becomes, because it is in the municipalities that well-being is created, and the municipalities must have a framework to deliver. So we're going to have to discuss here what's a sufficient framework, but we don't have to control the detail in the least detail. Many municipalities have adopted aggregates during this large-scale period. We are concerned that merged municipalities should not experience accidental loss of income. It's important that we deliver what's prerequisite, so that no one loses on it. Community reform does not go through, but it is voluntary during this period. The carrots must continue, but the municipalities that then choose not to join must not be penalised unnecessarily. The challenge in small municipalities, as well as competence, is that they are good at operating, but there is not much money left to develop municipalities further. I'm impressed by the local authorities' ability to change. The good result in recent years – and that is a fact that historically few municipalities are on the ROBEK list – may be that we state politicians can take some credit for it. But there are resilient local politicians with a spinal cord reflex that what can be done better is done better, which should have the greatest credit. The county council comes roughly into the status quo, much because of the flare in the number of high school students over a few years. It is important for us to stress that there should be a bag of money with the new tasks of the county councils to be transferred from the new year. There's expressed concern about this, and if we're going to make this reform work, there has to be a toolbox that you can work on outside. Of course, I see that the discussion about the size of the toolbox is important. The inclusion of ear-marked grants is incredibly important. We have had problems with one of the grants, but we include it anyway – the veterinary guard, which we now believe should be calculated according to the agricultural criterion instead. It will ensure this as a good and real alternative. We have local elections this year, and I want to take this opportunity to encourage everyone in this room to value and back up the efforts of local politicians. It is in the municipalities that life is lived, and we have, as also said from the Workers' Party, a special responsibility to look at the frames in terms of bullying and harassment, so that it can be minimised. Property tax is a municipal tax that municipal politicians have to dispose of. In this case, municipal politicians will also be able to do so, but it is also an increase in local self-government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e743	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e748	It is not true that the opposition prioritised more money to the municipalities during the previous government. The Labour Party is committed to stronger communities and has, in the last year, prioritised more money to municipalities in its alternative budget. In addition, we have had a number of bets in addition to the growth of the free revenues, which would either expand the services or strengthen the economy of the municipalities. The Christian People's Party supports a zero growth economic approach to the municipal sector. Is the Christian People's Party satisfied now? Is it that they support that we should not have a real growth in the free income?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e755	It just depends on what you're going to be saturated at. No, Christian People's Party is never saturated. As long as the Christian People's Party sits in this room, we want politics to move forward in defined areas. I want to repeat that this is not just about the financial framework, it is about the needs of the different municipalities – to look at what can be resolved jointly. The Christian People's Party wants more money, but it's not certain that the services will get better.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e762	The representative was in his contribution to a clinical veterinary watch grant other than normal working hours. That inclusion is a change that neither agriculture nor the veterinarians nor the municipalities have requested. We've been struggling for decades to get a good and predictable funding of this scheme. Finally, we have found something that works, finally all the regions are satisfied – and now it has to be removed. Today's system is cost-effective, is predictable and operates around all districts. A removal would pose a major risk that the response time would not be met and that we would not be prepared throughout the country. The representative proposes that the agricultural criterion be taken into account for this distribution. Then the area and number of agricultural holdings are crucial. In other words, a district with a lot of cereals, many vegetable producers – many such businesses – will have a lot, and a district with a lot of livestock will have little. Do you really want to be sure that this is accurate?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e769	It is at least much more accurate than what was in the original proposal. Then the population was supposed to be the starting point. One gets a test, and then you see how it hits. If this does not happen, then it is possible – the train has not been driven forever – to take the scheme back and see if there are other ways to solve it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e774	When SV prioritises the municipal sector so high, it is in respect of people and local people – that they should have the opportunity to do their job. We may have greater ambitions than the Christian People's Party in terms of well-being, climate and justice. Some of the local authorities are struggling with the effects that housing support is so badly weakened, that the government has cut off the AAP, and that there is a rather hard-handed hospital outsourcing policy, which means that municipalities have to accept patients in the middle of the night – we have, among other things. read about 90-year-old patients. This is one of the reasons why the SV is repeatedly promoting the proposal that the government must ensure that all relevant costs of resource-intensive services are included as part of the municipal component. This I had expected the Christian People's Party to agree with SV in, for these are patients who require competence and equipment as if it were a hospital, and it is very expensive for the municipalities. Why does the Christian People's Party not want the municipalities to be compensated for all the expenses they actually have?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e779	I am convinced that all parties in this room have genuine and sincere care for the services that occur in the municipalities, but there may be some parties that have a greater realism in what can be accomplished. Resource-intensive services were not at my disposal for the reason that there is a work going on in the government to see how we should make this system better and more accurate. There is a system of Christian People's Party that will follow and watch – that the municipalities can then cover as much of the expenses as possible, because the services are directly applicable to everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e784	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e789	The government likes to say that the local economy is good. That's a description Red doesn't sign. Like many local peoples around the country, we are concerned that the government does not see the pressure on municipal welfare from the fact that more and more tasks are being transferred to municipalities without adequate funding. Just think of the interaction reform, uncompensated cuts in property taxes on works and uses, and not least the increased need for community social assistance as a result of the government's headless cuts in redundancy money, which push people into the social sphere. The government's description of reality is also based on cheese terms, where they assume a savings far higher than what's realistically available, from one year to another. Over time, these skills will go significantly beyond the quality of welfare services in municipalities. At the beginning of the year, there were figures showing that child poverty has grown every year in Norway since 2011. It is about a lack of basic economic security in everyday life for more and more families with children. And even though child welfare in the future is slightly increased for the vast majority, paradoxically it does not increase too many of those who need it the most, because many municipalities shorten child welfare against social assistance. We believe that municipalities should not have the opportunity to take child welfare from those who need it the most. There is something we at Stortinget have proposed to change, in order to prevent these cuts being carried out in municipalities around the country. We also want to ensure that those who go on the AAP are not thrown out of the scheme and are at risk of economic ruin if they have not gone to work or have a disability within the deadline. Here the government must correct the injustice they have inflicted on many people and not push the bill for this to the municipalities in the form of increasing needs for just social assistance. We also agree with the SV's proposal here today to reintroduce the state designation of funding for the municipal crisis centres. This is money that we – as the only party, as far as I know – put into our alternative budget for the current year, and this money creates vital security for very many vulnerable people in Norway. What we propose – that of course costs money – we finance by shifting some resources from private abundance to the community, and by doing so we also meet basic human needs. We are proposing today to increase the framework for municipalities by between 8 billion in 2020. kr and 9 brd. In addition to what the government itself proposes. It is significantly more than the others in the opposition propose. But we can do that because we secured the municipalities a significantly larger space of action in our alternative budget before Christmas, and we plan to do the same for next year. We will subsidiaryly support the SV's proposal for an increase. Then we see that many of the government's centralization reforms have much in common. They are not based on professional knowledge, they have no local popular anchoring, and they are often poorly investigated. The same applies to the transfer of the road administration of the county roads to the counties. What is certain is that there will not be enough employees from the State Road Administration, and the counties cannot plan the start of the work until they know how much money they have. This has to be clarified before the budget, which will only be adopted in December. How many people do they think you can hire in Rome? It's probably relatively few. Red therefore suggests that the counties now have to know that they have enough money for the tasks and for the conversion process when they take over the administration of the county roads from the State Road Administration. With that, I take up Red's proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e814	The representative Bears Moxnes has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e820	The government's goal is strong, living communities all over the country. People and communities must control their own lives and influence their own social development. Here, municipalities play a key role from cradle to grave – from safe kindergartens through a good school to a worthy care for the elderly. Municipalities also have a central role as social developers, executives and as the democratic arena for the inhabitants. In order to provide good services, municipalities need a stable economy. We're also adding up to that in 2020, with a growth in the free income of the local government sector between 1 billion. kr and 2 br. kr. The growth of free revenues is allocated mainly to the municipalities. It has to be seen in the context of the assumption that county councils are expected to reduce their demographic expenditure even in 2020, as a result of changes in population composition. The government has prioritised good municipal economy, and this has produced good results. During the period 2015-2018, the municipal sector had a net operating surplus each year well above the recommendations of the Technical Calculation Committee for Municipal Economics. The number of municipalities on the ROBEK list fell from 47 to 15 from 2013 to 2016, and we expect the number to decrease further, to about 10 in the next year. There have never been fewer municipalities in the register. The public sector has to rely on tighter economic frameworks in the coming years. Oil revenues will flatten out and fall gradually. At the same time, additional expenditure on municipalities related to population development will increase in the coming years. Municipalities must therefore work to find new, innovative solutions to the needs of the future. There's also room to streamline. We know that if the municipalities streamline the business by half a percent, it equals 1.3 billion. kr that can be used in better schools, more care or other services. The government provides framework management for the municipal sector, because we believe that municipalities themselves can give priority to their own citizens. Framework funding through free revenues strengthens local self-government and provides less bureaucracy. The government is therefore proposing to include a number of earmarked grants in the framework grant in 2020, and I am pleased that a broad majority of the Committee supports reduced earmarking. But life and learning do not always go hand in hand. Indeed, the opposition is opposed to a number of government proposals, including the inclusion of grants that finance statutory tasks. The opposition parties have so little confidence in local populace that they want to control the municipalities twice, both by law and by earmarking. It doesn't provide better services – it gives more bureaucracy. In just over six months, the major changes in the municipal structure will take place over 50 years. One in three people will live in a new municipality, and by 2020 we will have 356 municipalities in Norway. However, the municipal structure as a whole has not fundamentally changed. Furthermore, half of the 356 municipalities will have fewer than 5000 inhabitants, and over 120 municipalities will have fewer than 3000 inhabitants. Urban areas are experiencing strong population growth, while many small municipalities experience population decline and ageing. Many municipalities struggle to attract sufficient labour in important areas. Greater municipalities are therefore needed to achieve sustainable social development. There are already good and long-term economic instruments for municipalities that merge. We are now introducing a new grant to municipalities that will update the knowledge base to start a new merger dialogue in the next municipal government period. The government is implementing the regional reform and the municipalities are growing and getting more tasks. Work is well under way for the transfer of tasks to the new county municipalities from 2020. It is now in progress, for example: extensive processes between the State Road Administration and the county municipalities to clarify a clean transfer of the county road administration from the State Road Administration to the county municipalities as soon as possible. The government's municipal policy facilitates municipal space for action, also next year. But it is that municipalities still have to make demanding priorities. I trust that local priorities will continue to be the most important, which are good services for the citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e848	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e853	It has been central to the government's and the Council's argument for municipal mergers, both compulsory and voluntary, that several of the municipalities, as they are organized today, are unable to fulfil the tasks they have. The Council of State has a list of which municipalities do not meet the requirements of the law, because it would be interesting for Stortinget to get.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e858	We don't. What we have is a recent study from Telemark Research that shows something about the condition. I have listened with interest to some of the posts. It is said that larger municipalities do not provide more employees. Well, it does. It's said that larger municipalities don't make it easier to hire. Well, it does. I recently visited Volda, where I met the rapporteur in Hornindal, and the rapporteur in Hornindal told me that they had been searching for an engineer for the Hornindal municipality. They didn't get one applicant. When they applied for new Volda municipality, they got many applicants. It was the same call, it was the same job assignment, but so the call was on behalf of a larger municipality. I believe that larger municipalities provide better opportunities for capacity and competence, and so we have studies to document how difficult it is for small municipalities to deal with alone. They don't have their own bodyguard or fire service, they don't have psychologists, they don't have doctors, they lack teachers, they lack nurses – it's not sustainable.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e869	I record that the Council of State, when challenged by which municipalities do not meet the requirements for tasks they have by law, which she has strongly asserted in the media that there are several of them, backs and shows that there are studies that there are challenges for the local government sector. There's hardly any news for Stortinget, we've been busy for a long time. Besides, she's justifying her answer with anecdotal knowledge. We all have anecdotes from Kommune-Norway, it's not a problem to find, both on good municipalities and on less good municipalities. But let me come up with something else that the Council of State was concerned with in its article, namely earmarked grants. For the Council of State, in its proposal to the Grand Council, it has proposed to remove some of the earmarked grants and is now criticising the opposition for not accepting all of them. Is it so to understand that the Council of State believes that all the earmarked grants that exist today should be removed? Or does the Council acknowledge that there can be a basis for maintaining someone, even though we are all broadly in agreement that framework funding has its obvious advantages, both economic and political?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e876	Our starting point is that framework funding is the main rule, and then over the years, and – I admit it – under changing governments, there have been more and more earmarked grants. We're clearing that up now, and we're bringing all the grants we can, into the framework. Yes, there will still be some that for different reasons still have to be earmarked, but then that's because it's the only way to govern these grants. But essentially, it has to be as much as possible within the framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e881	The proposal refers to the report of the Institute for Social Research on the survey on referendums in the context of community mergers. They point out that this has been an important basis for community involvement, and that the greatest weakness was the lack of no alternatives in some of these. The proposal announces that in the autumn of 2019 a national guide for the implementation of local referendums will be set up. It must mean that the government now agrees with the Central Party that these referendums are important – in stark contrast to the letter sent out by the Right in 2015, where they warn against referendums. They believe that this leads to vision, ineffectiveness and fragmentation in the community, and to decisions not being knowledge-based, and call it disclaimer of responsibility to lean on referenda when deciding on such an important topic. So my question to the Council of State is, can the Council of State now clearly distance itself from this letter that has gone out to all local politicians?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e890	It is up to the municipalities to decide whether they want a referendum, but if the representative asks me if I think it is a good tool, the answer is still no. There is a lot I can disagree with municipal decisions, but I also trust that there are municipal decisions, and as long as some municipalities choose to make referendums, they should have the best possible basis for making them. It's e.g. so that the central party repeatedly uses referenda as an argument against community reunification – people are happy that the municipality is alone. But that is not what the citizens voted for; they have voted against municipalities that have thirty, forty, fifty or hundreds of cooperation agreements with other municipalities. That's what you voted on, not a local government that makes all the decisions for itself. So I don't think this is a very good tool, but I recognize that we have it, and I acknowledge that local populace can have different perceptions of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e899	The President asks the replicants to stick to speaking time, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e904	Dissemination of residence and activity across the country is one of the success factors for Norwegian welfare and Norwegian business. A strong local democracy with a short distance between the inhabitants and those who govern is among the small business benefits we have in a country like Norway. Norway’s wealth is historically built on our natural resources, and there is nothing to suggest that the need to use natural resources will be reduced in the future. Nutrient resources are spread throughout the country, and then we are actually dependent on people living in the whole country – who see the opportunities, who want to make use of it, and who have welfare services they can rely on. It is interesting to note that the Council of State draws a challenge picture for the Norwegian municipal sector. At the same time, one does not want to recognise the need to have the presence throughout the country of welfare services that provide the support we need to increase value creation. Does the Council of State consider that administrative breakdown does not affect what Norway looks like?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e920	On the contrary. It's precisely because I think administrative division is important for what Norway looks like, I think we have to do something about the administrative division, not the geographical division. The zero-point analyses show that, after the municipal mergers that have taken place, of course you still have a decentralised structure. It burns all over the country, but we don't have 422 fire services. There are children who suffer from care failure throughout the country, but we do not have 422 child protection services. We need schools, kindergartens and nurses, and then we need municipalities to attract that competence. We see challenges in that today, and it challenges settlement across the country. People have to live somewhere they get services. People have to live somewhere they get a job. When we know that planning, strategic work and industrial development are something we don't have the capacity to do in the smallest municipalities – you say the opposite, that there is hard work to do on vacations if you have time: it's not going to be sustainable, and then you don't get to live in the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e927	If the municipal sector is to cope with what the Council of State is now saying, priority must be given to the municipal sector above what this government is doing. The regions that have now been cut in the first year – for example: a very underfunded and unbiased transfer of co-road administration — is responsible for some of the most important tasks, such as public transport and secondary education. In the case of public transport, they also have opportunities to reduce greenhouse gas emissions — perhaps one of the sectors that can do the most. Therefore, SV once again promotes proposals that zero-emission technologies should be the basis for future financing. In addition, the Storting decided that this would be implemented, but the government is paying off. What is the reason why the government does not see that these requirements need to be made clear, and that it needs to be financed, so that we get to the climate and the economic development that comes with this?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e934	I have repeatedly heard the representative claim that the county councils have been cut. It's proven to be wrong. In the current year, the counties have a demographic decline of 600 million. kr. Next year, the demographic decline is estimated to be 400 million. kr. That's 1 billion. kr, which the State, if followed the scheme, could take in because there is less expenditure for the municipalities. It means greater space for action, greater possibility of prioritising what the county authorities consider to be important. Many municipalities believe that environmental and zero emissions are important. And they're doing a phenomenal job, so why you're doing that in this room to charge state politicians with a job they're already doing, I don't know. So the counties have economic muscles through the scheme that they have put forward to give priority to the areas that they think are important.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e939	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e944	The working party will have a community with strong communities and small differences. It's only possible if our municipalities can afford to improve the services for people. A good local economy is essential for us as a community to be able to fight growing differences. We've seen that and experienced it year after year. A good community economy is essential for building more kindergartens, employing more teachers, making SFOs available to everyone, providing good and healthy food for our elderly, building out the T-Bahn in the cities, making buses more frequent in the districts, and facilitating jobs and local value creation throughout the country. Yes, a good community economy is important in order to make it possible to live a good life, regardless of the thickness of your wallet, wherever you live in Norway. Our municipalities handle so much of what really counts in people’s lives – that kids thrive and learn at school, that employees have time for our older people when they need care, and that all children and young people can participate in leisure activities. Against this background, the setup of the Stortinget is debating for local economy today, weak. The government's own figures show that the average annual real growth in the free revenues of the municipal sector for the years 2018, 2019 and 2020 is 0 pst. - zero! In other words, the government suggests that the sector will not have any real growth in its free revenues in the period 2018-2020. It says a lot about the level of ambition of right-wing government for people's common well-being. The economic environment The Stortinget is debating today, proving that school, care for the elderly and other important welfare services in the municipalities are less important than the large tax cuts carried out with the Progress Party, the Right, the Left and the Christian People's Party. Against this background, the weak structure of the local economy is part of a larger picture of increasing disparities and low ambitions for what the community can achieve together. In recent years, as a community, we have made less of an effort for people. Three out of ten have received less advice since the right-wing government joined in 2013. Cut in and centralize the public offer has given us a police that is more distant from people, a serious lack of firmers, ambulance services that fail in the most, and an elderly care where commercial actors take over more and more because as a community we do not care for our common care and our shared responsibility for our elderly. Then it is disappointing, but not surprising, that in the last 15 years there has not been a weaker economic situation for the local government than the government is now presenting to the Stortinget in 2020. The Labour Party wants a different course, a different policy, for other values. Instead of extensive commercialisation, we focus on shared care for the elderly – several domestic workers, organised housing for several older people, day-to-day care for the elderly, and more. Instead of cash benefits for poor people, we invest in welfare services that benefit everyone – cheaper kindergarten, a meal at school for all children, free SFO and AKS in the first class, as the first step. Instead of centralisation and coercion, we focus on what enables people to live and thrive and feel safe throughout the country – more permanents, broadband throughout the country, a better ambulance service and community health service. As much of what we can do, what we want to do, requires the municipalities to afford to bet and, of course, operate effectively, with the will to invest in what we can solve together. We want a society with stronger communities and smaller differences. It requires our municipalities to afford to do their part of that Community job. The term ‘municipal economy’ is perhaps one of the grayest and saddest words in the political vocabulary, but it actually covers the warmest and closest of what is important in human life. Therefore, the Workers' Party prioritises improving the local economy. This will not mean that it is free from irresponsible use of money in the municipalities. I think everyone who works out there as rapporteurs and municipal politicians knows that. But today we are promoting proposals for an income growth for the municipal sector in 2020, which is 2.5 to 3 billion. kr higher than the right-hand government adds.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e983	If we read the chapters of the municipal proposition on demographic developments in our country, we are reminded of something we know, namely that the proportion of the elderly in the population will increase significantly, and that the number of over 80 years in the year 2040 will probably be twice that of today. We also read that we are moving out of a period that has been relatively favourable in terms of age composition economically, but that the wave of old age will seriously begin to overwhelm us in 2023, with the resource challenges that this entails. We know all this – and more. The question we have to ask ourselves is what we do to meet these challenges, whether we, as elected representatives, are able to do the necessary grips – even when they are unpopular – or whether we are going to school for the next election, become short-term and push the snowball forward in front of us for the next generation. Societal shoots are hard to maneuver. Public structures are demanding to change, and the effect of today's political grips is likely to be well ahead of time. So the direction towards 2040 is largely on us. These are our choices, and the goal must be for future generations to live in a welfare society at least as well as ours. When we read the opposition's comments on the municipal proposition of the year and listen to them here, at the latest Gahr Støre in the previous post, it is with respect to report little help to get. It is a one-sided focus on money and an idea-drier in terms of system organisation. Of course, the wave of old age is also about money, but it will be far from enough. The challenges we are now facing are not something we can afford out with very good results. It is by changing structures and framework conditions that we can over time find the solutions that safeguard the welfare of the future. In short, we need to organise ourselves better, work smarter and use more resources – including private ones. On these issues, it is the government that has the political initiative and initiates the necessary reform processes – and well, because it is high time. At the entrance to a municipal election, it may also be appropriate to recognise the efforts of local government and to underline the importance of local selfgovernment. It's the municipalities themselves who know where the shoe prints. It's by giving them the space we anchor the policy, and finding the solutions that fit best locally. There are great differences in Municipality-Norway. Local adjustment is also usually an effective use of funds if only the necessary skills and manpower resources are available. What we need now is to equip the municipalities themselves to be offensive and find the best possible local solutions. This means that we need municipalities with a large formal space for action, a high level of competence and great ability to change. It means a greater proportion of free resources, fewer earrings, fewer legal regulations and, for large parts of the country, significantly larger municipalities with the necessary impact to take the tasks – i.e. continued community reform, not least in districts, where the proportion of older people will also increase most. Municipalities will have to make significant changes in many areas. The volume of budget and the availability of high skills are crucial factors for success. We're going to need a stronger business effort and a good framework for innovation. It means competent and effective planetats in the municipalities. Many municipalities are critically small in this context. And with the address of care for the elderly, we're going to wish for the best possible accommodation for the elderly, so that as much as possible can stay at home, including at home. through increased use of health technologies. It also requires specialised professional competence, and it requires a diversity of service providers that provide competition at quality and cost. I could also mention digitisation, and there are also many other disciplines that have been mentioned in previous articles. Demographic development requires a lot of us, and it will require a lot in several policy areas. In health policy, we will face this with emphasis, and we need a labour market policy that provides more real opportunities for longer work. But it's the municipalities that are the hub of welfare production in our country. Their capacity, competence and adaptability are crucial to the well-being of our daily lives. This means that we need to continue the transition – it is still in local reform or in other areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e1015	There was no cheering or trampling when the government presented its proposal to the local economy for 2020. I guess it wasn't expected either. The proposal has received a rather cool reception from most of the people sitting in the middle of it, in the city and municipal governments around the country. The rapporteurs, municipal councillors, city councillors and not to talk about county councillors did not get any enthusiasm for this proposal. We talk about those who sit and govern our communities, about those who govern our regional communities. We are talking about those who have to decide every day how the service offered to their citizens is to be organised and, not least, paid. That with payment is an important point. As you know, money is not everything, but it is necessary, at least so that if you do not have the money, something has to be removed, done less by or not introduced or started up at all – or you can try to increase income while cutting costs. Operation needs to be made more efficient, because it is on the operating side of the large costs of a municipality. The welfare services we want to provide from our municipalities are not free of charge. They've never been, and there's nothing new. Those here who have been a member of a city or local government, either as rapporteur – there are some in the Chamber who have been – or as an ordinary member, know very well that municipal services cost money. The school shall have lighting, heating, teachers and administrative staff. Hospitals shall have nurses, nurses, doctors, cleaning staff, kitchen staff and activists. kindergartens shall have pre-school teachers, assistants, toys, outdoor areas, fences, lights and heat. Then comes municipal green areas and free areas, sports halls and sports facilities, all of which need a janitor or two for necessary supervision and maintenance. Although volunteering, especially in sport, takes a lot of that job, one needs a technical establishment – not to forget what this technical operational department does in a municipality, with water pipes and sewerage pipes, with waterworks, sewage treatment plants, road maintenance and much more. In addition, some municipalities stay with youth clubs that need an adult person or two to be present. Some tasks have been mentioned, not all. The point is that all of this comes with a cost. It costs money to keep all of this in operation. Some of the tasks are also performed 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. After a few years as a local government member, I got some insight into what it means to operate a municipality, what a big task it really is. There are many good people out there in the municipalities – politicians, councillors, employees, residents with volunteering as evening jobs. They get it, they think constructively and pull at the same end of the rope. Then it's important to give these people prerequisites in order to do what we require of them, namely to provide welfare services. I really do not know any rapporteurs, either from one party or the other, who are wasting their money. But there is a limit to how much a municipality can streamline and rationalise, and those rapporteurs know that too. That's why many of them have to resort to extra income. They must resort to property taxes because the government does not prioritise the local economy to a high degree. The Workers' Party will build strong community solutions in our welfare services, but then we must give our local politicians the real opportunity to provide quality services in nursing homes, in nursing homes, in schools, in kindergartens and otherwise in the services that we as citizens expect to operate every day of the year. I hear here that it's a strong local economy and there's huge profits, etc. These profits come at the end of the year as additional income, tax revenue that no one has expected. Even the Minister of Finance and the Ministry of Finance have not been able to figure out, year after year, that there will be such a surplus. You put it here as if the municipalities were able to hire and invest. No, they can't. In that case, it would be a terrible financial management, because you don't know if you get that money back in six or eight months, and then you have to start saying up and going down. Keeping this up is not a long-term and good economic governance. In fact, I do not believe that those who have experience from the local government room as a member or rapporteur – as I know many have – would agree that it is a good idea to play those kinds of pingpong games with the local economy. As I said, it's not unreasonable to spend three billion dollars. kr more on the municipalities, as proposed by the Workers' Party. It's a reasonable use of money. It's about prioritizing.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e1032	I'm happy in my municipality, Kristiansand. I'm actually proud of my municipality. In 1964, my municipality was one of four that was merged, and now we're going to merge again, with two of the neighbouring municipalities. I come from a very large municipality, which could handle itself. But I also come from a municipality that has ambitions to provide good services to its inhabitants even in the future, a municipality that will have good kindergartens and a good school offer, a municipality that will provide good health and care services, a municipality that will provide a social security network if I need it. I come from a municipality that is concerned that it is the good professional environments and competent employees who operate the service offer. It is ambitious, competent teachers, nurses and health professionals who ensure the quality of the service provision. In order to continue to provide good welfare services, my municipality must be an attractive job, also for those entering the labour market in five, ten, fifteen and twenty years. Then my municipality must be able to offer jobs that allow for the development of employees and innovation in the service offer, otherwise competent employees – and without people, no service offer. I am proud that my municipality saw that by joining the neighbouring municipalities, we are able to live up to the ambitions we had in a better way. It's going well in the Norwegian economy. Employment is rising, unemployment is falling, and more jobs are created. Growth in the economy is also expected to be higher than normal both this year and next year. Then it's important that we use the good times well. Our municipalities have improved their finances for years. The government has given priority to the local economy. Politicians around the country have worked well, and extraordinary tax revenue has done its own. The ROBEK list has become shorter, and municipalities are constantly experiencing good operating results. It seems quite strange to me that not even the large opposition parties, the Workers' Party and the Centre, are more willing to contribute actively to the further municipal reform, while there are still quite good times and opportunities to carry out such reforms in a planned way. I'm afraid it's getting harder in time. Telemark Research Report No 473 from 2019 shows with all clarity that small municipalities have not been able to participate in population growth on a national basis. The small municipalities have become smaller, the largest have become larger, and it is independent of who has run the country and has been responsible for district policy. The study also shows that the relationship between working and retired people is changing in negative favour. Several municipalities come under two working people per pensioner, and it's not sustainable. It also means that the economy is becoming more vulnerable due to fewer citizens, that competition for labour, access to skills and specialised services is strengthened, and that the challenges faced by many municipalities in recruiting are only growing. In addition, the majority of small municipalities signal an increasing need for inter-municipal cooperation in the coming years. With this backstop, I think the opposition should also put away the anxiety of touch and become more active in developing the next stage of the municipal reform. We're not going to use force, even though the Center Party is trying to scare it around, but we're going to contribute what we can, to help the municipalities that want it, to make the clarification they need. That is why I am pleased that the government is continuing the investigation support for the next few years as well. Cooperation is well and good, but we have seen a widespread use of inter-municipal cooperation, and that it affects democratic governance. We know that better municipal services will require digitisation and common infrastructure. It will not be easier to do when it comes to cooperating on different services with different partners. The only way to meet the future is by being proactive. Then the municipal boundaries, set at a certain time, cannot be sacred for all future. Therefore, it is timely that this proposition also provides a basis for the continuation of the reform and makes instruments available.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e1049	Norway is a long-distance country. We live in the inner valley and on the outer section, but most of us live somewhere in the middle. Over 80 pst. of us live in cities and towns. Here we have our homes and create our lives. Cities and cities also face many of the major challenges we need to find good policy solutions for the future, such as infrastructure, innovation, business development, housing, exclusion, integration and sustainability related to climate and environment. We have faith in stronger communities. Creating and further developing a good living environment throughout the country is about municipal economy. A strong and robust local economy, as we put it, is helping to equip municipalities to pursue a good housing policy and a forward-looking urban and urban development. An important part of creating good lives is creating good homes and stronger communities. For the Workers' Party, there are brighter, warmer and greener cities and towns; there is a safe and good local environment with schools, bike paths and collective services, with access to work and leisure and cultural services, which allow older people to be the head of their own lives, including: by allowing them to live longer at home and to have good institutions for those who need it. Housing policy reflects what we in society are concerned about, the key to everything we are concerned about in social democracy: well-being, equality, care for the elderly and the inclusion of mentally ill and others who have good work to do. We have to have a more inclusive society, we have to have stronger communities, and it has to be easier to get into the housing market, whether you own it or you rent it. The increasing level of debt in Norway is worrying, and we can counteract this. But it is equally about creating a social housing policy that contributes to a good offer to everyone, wherever you live, about well-being, equality and care for the elderly, and about school and leisure activities that are important growing-up conditions for our children. Growing cities challenge the environment, whether through housing, infrastructure or air pollution. One in four children is diagnosed with asthma before the age of 16. Pollution is a contributing cause. Only in Oslo did it live in 2014, when the Right crashed the city, 200,000 people in the so-called red zone, where air pollution was too high. One of those who marked it was Martin in twelve years. "It's like breathing through a pipe thinner than a suction pipe," was his word. With the green shift in Oslo, the Labour Party in the City Council has led a policy that leads to people in Oslo breathing in fresher air than before. The number of people living in the red zone has now fallen from 200,000 in 2014 to 10,000 in 2018. This shows that courageous politicians who dare to change their course and take the environmental challenges seriously are achieving results. Cities that grow rapidly, build a lot – but who builds, and on what conditions? Every year, private entrepreneurs build kindergartens, schools and hospitals for billions of dollars in the Municipality of Oslo. It has to be really happening. The Oslo City Council, together with the social partners, has therefore developed the Oslo model of decent working life. Fixed employees are the clear rule. At least 10 pst. by working time, work is to be carried out by apprentices and an extended tax certificate is required. No one is allowed to pay with cash. Remuneration shall be provided between assignments and key project personnel shall be able to understand Norwegian. It's working. The construction industry in Oslo is now building again. Not since the mid-1990s have so many applied for apprenticeships in Oslo. This is how Oslo, with the Labour Party at its head, is leading the fight against the crime of working life and social dumping. In order to drive urban and urban development properly, we need municipalities to be strong and secure and have a robust local economy. I am pleased that the Workers' Party has just this as a taboo, and that we are strengthening the municipal budgets year after year and setting stronger communities first.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e1068	It's going well in Norway. More jobs are created, and more people come to work. We have not seen a lower unemployment rate of more than ten years, and unemployment is particularly low in the districts. Not only is it going well in the Norwegian economy, but the service we get from the public is good. For the sixth consecutive year, the government provides a proposal for municipal planning that gives municipalities good conditions to provide good services to us who live around the municipalities. During 2019 we are likely to go down to record 10 ROBEK municipalities. The main reason why there are so few municipalities on the ROBEK list is the strong income development that municipalities have had in recent years, and good work in municipalities. The greatest possible power should be closest to people. Larger and stronger municipalities provide better conditions for municipalities to undertake new tasks. We're going to need the municipalities to do more for the population in the years to come, not less. There will be a greater focus and quality requirements for the future schoolchildren, children and the elderly. These challenges are going to be different in different municipalities, and there will be different solutions to the challenges. But common to many of them is that they can be solved using new technology – not because new technology is an end in itself, but because new technology is a tool to provide us all with better services. The co-financing mechanism for digitisation projects ensures the implementation of profitable small and medium-sized digitisation projects. That scheme has been a success. From 2016 to 2018, the scheme has committed a total of 336 million. SEK to 40 projects. The 336 million. kr that has been used means a potential savings for the public of a total of 7 billion. DKK over 10 years. The government just launched a new digitalisation strategy for the public sector. It shows us that there's an incredible amount of exciting happening, and that even more is on the way. People can now get an overview of the Internet when home help has been at their homes, even if they do not even live in the same place. It provides enormous security for everyone in everyday life. Public services and benefits that previously required meeting in an office and completing a form can now be semi-automatically online. When it comes to the simplest things, you can also get them automated. It makes the individual save time, and it does of course also allow employees to spend their time on more important things than collecting paper, stamping them and punching in numbers. There are still many places in Norway where this digitisation work is not going well enough. There are many services where it has not come far enough. We see that you are hanging out in many municipalities and with many services. The need for digitisation is enormous around the municipality of Norway. I'm concerned that we can get a digital class distinction between municipalities that choose to make use of the possibilities that exist, and those that don't. Nor is it to conceal that there will also be many of the smallest municipalities that face the biggest challenges of putting these solutions into practice. New technology alone can never replace warm hands in the care of the elderly or wise teachers in school. But new technology will release time and resources in the municipalities to prioritise just more warm hands and more wise heads, which will still provide us with a good municipal service. It deserves all the inhabitants of the country. It is therefore also essential that municipalities cooperate on services and, where appropriate, apply together for larger and more powerful municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e1085	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e1091	What is the legacy of the right government? Yes, it is a huge centralisation and a poorer district policy. The income system is being modified to force municipalities in the districts to merge. It should therefore no longer be such that, irrespective of where in the country a resident lives, a person must have access to a good welfare society. There are 4 000 more government jobs in Oslo, while there are fewer jobs in many district municipalities, i.e. poorer areas of competence, which will not prevent them from moving out of the districts, and local services to ensure security for the inhabitants, such as the police in the districts, are getting worse. The list of centralisation measures is clear – one by one they appear. So it's a little weird that the right-hand government thinks it's a little weird that we're going to discuss money in this room. It is not that Norway has no money; it is about how we prioritise and distribute this money. After all, the right-hand government has prioritised the 10 pst. all, the richest and given less to the municipalities – there is zero growth. So what else is the legacy of the right-hand government? Well, it's privatisation, privatisation, privatisation. Now we're going to have Swedish conditions in the care service. Look to Sweden, say it. How's Sweden? Well, look to Stockholm, where in some parts of the city there are hundreds of different private actors providing care services. There, care services have become equal to who is the best person to market and shop services — a huge bureaucracy. And what do we see? Well, one of the big players in private care in Sweden is taking out 2 billion. kr in profit and pays a cheap NOK 22000 back to the community. What does Bent Höie say about launching such privatisation measures in Norway? He says that for him, it doesn't matter if this money goes abroad. To Bent Höie, I would say it's not his money; it's the Norwegian people's money. The reality is that the way these commercial companies make money is to give employees poorer pay and working conditions. It's just to look at Oslo, where a newly-trained health professional earns 80,000 kroner less a year in private care than in public care. In Norway, it is possible to provide a good welfare offer, where we take care of employees, where we offer a good offer to the inhabitants, where we ensure that we have a good district policy so that people can live throughout the country. But then it's about prioritizing, and the Workers' Party's priorities are right. It's about strong communities.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e1104	There's a meager framework the government proposes to grant to the county municipalities next year. The revenue development proposal from minus 200 million. NOK plus 100 million. will make it particularly difficult to meet people's demands, expectations and wishes. Its demands and intentions for better provision in key services such as higher education, public transport, road, business development, dentistry, culture and cultural heritage, to name one, become more difficult to fulfil. There are only some of the areas for which the county authorities are responsible. The Storting has said that the county councils will exist in the future, and it would be in their place that they were given a framework to meet the tasks they are already assigned to, and not least those they will receive from the turn of the year. In 2010, responsibility for a large part of the national roads was transferred to the county municipalities, and that responsibility is not clear to the counties, it was claimed. That's wrong. Because the numbers show something completely different. This has been clear to the county councils, despite the poor framework of this government. But if the county councils are to reduce the proportion of bad county roads, the important infrastructure across the country, they need money. It cannot affect other services. They must be given transfers enabling them to assume the responsibilities assigned to them by the State. A short-term decline in 16- to 18-year-olds – or as the Council of State calls it: lower demographic costs – cannot be returned in crowns and moved into other measures, because if you have to do so, you have to tell teachers, you have to make offers, and you have to put schools down. It is worrying when we know that for the vast majority of people aged 16 to 18 years, those who are going to be the workers of the future and have a good education, they are going up in a short time. So the government doesn't follow its own level of ambition. The centre party, for example, played. in 1 billion kr in its alternative budget for 2019 for the maintenance of the county roads. Our arrangement would provide a significantly larger room for action to maintain and build more roads where there is a need, and faster, while solving the other services. It will continue to follow up the Center Party in the future. Within the framework proposed by the Central Party for the municipal sector, we intend to set aside a minimum of 1 billion. kr to continue our proposal to start up a major maintenance programme for the county roads. Infrastructure in Norway is crucial. You don't get to school, to a dentist or to work if you don't have good roads. It's on the county roads a lot of the transport is going on. Government parties have proposed that those who voluntarily apply from the Road Administration to the counties after the end of today's solution for the administration of our roads should be the measure of how much money the counties will receive. That's special. Not only does it violate the principle that the money should follow the tasks, but we risk having a significant underfinancing and lack of people in a number of counties and great persuasion in the state road system. The centre party believes that the county councils must have the means to follow up the tasks assigned to them by Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e1123	The transport sector accounts for a large proportion of all emissions in areas not covered by climate quotas. We're already doing a lot on both electric car bets, on collectives, and on creating a better name that ensures good and efficient transport. We've also done a lot to get ferries on electricity, and every month there's new ferries going on renewable electricity. But in one area, we still have a job ahead of us. It's in the speedboat sector. In this area, we emit more times more CO2 per passenger-kilometre than each air passenger does. This has long been a desire to do something about it. Technically, the pieces now begin to fall into place, and so this government, through the stimulation of the climate, wants to establish an ear-marked bet on low- and release-free speedboats. Our ambition is to halve emissions from shipping by 2030, and then all ship categories have to participate in the rigging. This will also be made clear in the Green Shipping Action Plan, which will soon be presented. That's in this round of $25 million. kr to the system, ear-marked speedboats. Public procurement processes shall go ahead and show way. The county authorities are responsible for the purchase of fast boat services. Through this bet, they are now ready to set requirements for the bids that are under seal. This applies along our entire coastline, from Finnmark in the north to Agder in the south. The initiative also provides the basis for producing technologies with, for example, hydrogen as an energy source, which may be the basis for nutrient development for hydrogen production and distribution and for technical solutions. Regardless of the technology being chosen, Norway will demonstrate its superior maritime competence, where our innovation environment can demonstrate that we are on the verge of zero and low emission solutions within the maritime sector. The county councils have an important responsibility here, and we now give them the opportunity to come into a position to exercise this responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e1136	Last week it was the 2nd anniversary of the merger of the counties. It was 8 June 2017 that we had the discussion about county mergers. Then the main figure for the government parties said that this is a solution that really no parties want, and was proud of it. When we celebrated the 2nd birthday last week, there was really no celebration. It was a mess. That was dissatisfaction. There were reports from around Norway that this reform only costs money and makes things worse, not better. When you saw that regional reform, it was politics at its worst. Four-five pieces from the Christian People's Party, Left, Right, Advance Party and one from the government, Jan Tore Sanner, were placed in a meeting room here in Stortinget, partly in the government quarter, drawing new maps. It wasn't figured out. It wasn't knowledge based. It was just some kind of action. It's not conservative politics, it was just a way to show action. We then got a solution that no parties would have. Then we see in this communicative debate that there is no self-conception about the irresponsibility shown by the government in the debate on regions and municipalities in Norway. No, here it's just going to go on. Although all Norwegian municipalities were challenged to have heavy processes in the last period – it was people's meetings, referendums and polls that were the government's preferred instrument – and in the municipality by municipality said no, we want to continue ourselves, we want to further develop the municipality, we want services close to people, we want to have schools, nursing homes, yes the basic services, in our own community, the government says no, we don't listen to that. Monica Mæland has said on behalf of the government that all municipalities under 5000 are too small, they have to go away. They don't have the right of life. Half of the country's municipalities are too small. With Trine Skei Grande, the same government has referred to these municipalities as koseclubs, that the 50,000 employees who work in these municipalities work in a cos club. There's not much cos club to be in home disease when you're driving on an island in North Norway, and you see the harsh climate we have. It's hard everyday work to make sure there's good services close to people. It's so random what the government is doing. When Monica Meland is, for example, in the municipality of Rauma, with 7,400 inhabitants, or in the west, which has well over 5,000 inhabitants, she says that these municipalities are too small. What's big enough for the government? It seems that the goal is change without any knowledge at all. Because as long as it's a municipal merger, it's by definition the good, even if people don't. Then, Malta has expressed the need for local government representatives to take a debate after the elections. This reform was called a democratic reform of the government at the outset. Of course, you have to discuss it before the elections, and discuss it in the various municipalities in Norway, what the local candidates think, what the candidate from the Right, the Labour Party, the Centre Party, the SV, the Progress Party, yes, everyone, thinks, so that it becomes a real democracy and people can decide in the elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e1151	We all live in a municipality, and most people are proud of their municipality and busy marketing their municipality as the best municipality to live in. Right is the bustle of living communities, where the inhabitants build communities together. When we now face a municipal and county election, there is reason to thank all those who have agreed to be on a list to develop their municipality or region and to be local democracy. Municipalities shall provide their citizens with their good services. We expect it, no matter where we live, and whether the municipality is large or small. It is often the case that smaller municipalities face challenges of recruitment and of retaining skills and capabilities in order to deliver good services. It's vulnerable to small trade unions. Young workers will often refuse to stand alone for a responsibilities such as: child protection. The municipal reform has led us to go down to 356 municipalities from 1 January 2020. In the view of the Right, it is a completely necessary reform to meet tomorrow's challenges and not least to strengthen local democracy. This reform must continue. It is still the case that half of the inhabitants of the country live in a municipality with fewer than 5,000 inhabitants, and more than 120 municipalities will have fewer than 3,000 inhabitants. Many communities today face demographic changes, with strong increases in the older population, and that is perhaps the biggest challenge when it comes to sustaining the good welfare arrangements we have in the country. The regional reform, with fewer municipalities, is a decentralised reform that gives municipalities greater responsibility for competence and integration, public health, climate and the environment, economic development, agriculture, research, culture, and culture. For those who are very interested in transport and infrastructure, it is expected that the county council will now be given full responsibility for the county roads in the country. The county authorities already have the legal, economic and political responsibility for the county roads. Now one also transfers the administration of the roads from the State Road Administration to the county municipalities. Right-wing meaning this is a completely right-wing decision that allows the county councils to see the whole thing from planning to building and maintaining the road network for which they are responsible. Finally, I would like to wish municipal and county politicians the best of luck with important work.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e1166	The centre party will strengthen the local economy in order to improve the quality of welfare services such as kindergarten, school, child protection, school-based health care providers and other key child-rearing services for which municipalities and county municipalities are responsible. It does not help that the government has great promises written in large words in large letters if the municipalities are not able to fulfill them. A lot goes well in the municipalities, and it's an impressive commitment to solving all the regulatory tasks locally. We must not destroy this commitment with too heavy a burden to bear. In fact, the requirements and the need for change increase far more than the government will grant to municipalities. The centre party considers it unfortunate that the local authority's scope for action is being reduced by increasing standards and requirements, especially when the increased requirements are not financed. Storing and government has given municipalities more and more obligations over the last few years. For example, we have received the framework plan, the standard of education and the standard of staffing in kindergartens. In addition, there has been a standard of teaching, and with the ongoing innovations in school and new curricula, everything is thrown over. Changes in special education, practical pedagogical service, Statped etc. ensure that local authorities and administrative and school leaders are constantly up-to-date and changing their school development plans. It seizes time, resources and work capacity. All the practical things in school, the everyday lives of teachers and students, are being changed with new curricula. The government claims that this is fully funded and is taken over by the individual population grants. But they should really take a walk into the municipalities. The working day is demanding to make it go around. People just run faster and faster. This affects the work and activity of municipalities. The county councils are reduced in grants due to a drop in the number of students in the coming school years, but there is equally little funding for teachers, line offers and high school operations. This goes beyond the offer of schools to provide on a long-term basis, including candidate numbers and future operations. This is an evil circle we have to turn around. When the Center Party was last in government, the municipal sector was given a significant economic boost. The Centre Party has continued this effort – for schools, for students – in our alternative budgets, and will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e1179	The centre party is pleased with all the decentralisation of power and authority and wants municipalities and county councils to have more tasks. For us, it is important that there is money when the problems are moved. In this way, we ensure that municipalities and county councils are able to do the best they can, regardless of whether they are small or large. The size has previously addressed the legislative proposal for changes in the road sector related to the implementation of the part of the regional reform relating to the transfer of the county road administration from the State Road Administration to the county municipalities. The division of tasks will result in the redistribution of resources, both human, economic and technical. There is an extensive operation in the counties during these days. It will be essential for the states to have resources transferred from the state's road system that are proportionate to the tasks they are now given, and it is now the battle for the resources, both the money and the people. The majority of the Municipal and Administrative Committee noted that the tasks should follow when the new county municipalities are established from 1 January 2020, understood – of course – also the means. It is worth noting that a joint municipal and management committee was behind the transfer decision, which is also well outlined here in the Chamber today. In the municipal bill for 2020, the government announces a maximum real growth of 100 million. kr and, in the worst case, a real reduction in county income of 200 million. kr. At the same time, the government states that, in the case of one of the largest transfers of tasks from the state to the county municipalities, administration of the county roads, the county councils will only receive money for those employees who actually move from the state road authority to the county councils, not for the annual works that currently run this administration at the state road authority. It's a strange way to start a really big operation out in the counties. It is serious and may result in significant under-financing of the reform and it is not in line with the principles for the transfer of tasks between administrative levels. The proposal states that the Ministry of Transport will make proposals for the transfer of funds into the State budget for the following year ‘given that the transfer can take place from 2020’ — given that the transfer can take place from 2020. The fact that the date of the transfer has not yet been fixed gives rise to significant uncertainty both for the county councils and the employees concerned. This is in line with several other tasks of the county councils set up in search or waiting mode. The centre party will underline the importance of strengthening county municipalities with new tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e1194	Local democracy is a fine thing. It's important. The local populace make a fantastic effort for their local communities whether they work in small or large municipalities. That is the very foundation of our democracy. It must be strengthened, not weakened. People should know and have contact with their local people. It's a value in itself. But instead of discussing how we can strengthen local democracy, the Right is as usual most concerned with structure and organisation – more that than content, more that than participation. They're taking the time in the debate today to talk the little municipalities down. Among other things, they say that we still need to have municipal reform, not least in the districts, where the number of older people is increasing. But the demography isn't changed by the fact that one merges municipalities. And then they say that we're at risk for a digital class division, and it's the smallest municipalities that get the biggest challenges. Yeah, are we sure about that? There is better broadband coverage at higher speed in the Lierne than there is in Stjørdal – there are 1,400 inhabitants in the Lierne, and there are 24 000 to 25,000 in Stjørdal. But talking down the municipalities is kind of the tone of Right's new crusades. So to this with recruiting in the small municipalities. The councils mentioned both teachers and nurses, which are the largest groups in both small and large municipalities. However, it is clear that when the government helps to reduce the provision of university and university education abroad, they make it actively more difficult to recruit labour to the small municipalities. In the namdal municipalities is 78 pst. by the nurses educated at the Nord universitet campus Namsos, which the government is now proposing to lay down. Then it is not the fault of the municipalities that they have trouble recruiting. Then the government is making it harder for them. It is clear that community mergers do not make it easier to recruit specialised labour as psychologists and lawyers in their own seas, but it may only be possible to say that a person must centralise the provision of well-being. I really think that's the right attempt to say without being willing to say it. Obviously, a new round of community mergers will never happen on a voluntary basis. It will have to happen either by actual coercion or by economic coercion. It is an absolute question that we should discuss – not after the municipal elections, to which the municipal minister refers, but definitely before the municipal elections, so that people in the election campaign can actively decide whether they want the government's coercion of new municipalities in the way that Malta has proposed, that all municipalities under 5,000 inhabitants have too few inhabitants and by definition should have been merged.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e1207	There has been a lot of talk in this debate about the different challenges our municipalities face. I want to take this opportunity to focus on one of these challenges, which affects local self-government and local democracy. As the representative Sivertsen mentioned in his speech earlier in the debate, there has been a lot of feedback from rapporteurs and other elected representatives around the country in the last year. They clearly say that they are now considering not taking re-elections – due to hotness, sheikhness and hateful opinions on the web. The large amount of heat experienced by some of our elected representatives can therefore have a consequence on our democracy, either because they are unable to stand in position, or because potential candidates are scared away from taking a position. KS has carried out a thorough study on this issue and has made several good proposals for action. Other organisations that are concerned with freedom of expression and expression have also worked on this topic. Last week, Amnesty issued 21 policy actions against online access. The Labour Party, on its side, has done a thorough job. We have strengthened our procedures so that we can best prevent and detect both onlineness. We will ensure good management when someone is exposed to onlineness, and not least follow up on our elected and trusted elected representatives who are exposed to heat. It is a shared responsibility to provide safe arenas for debate and speech for our peoples all over the country. If we do not take this responsibility together, it may be at the expense of our people's government. We have to take responsibility for our elected forces to stand in the debates and for new ones to come to. If we're going to do this, we need concrete tools. The local authorities must be guaranteed a good framework, and the police must have the opportunity to follow up on this topic as well. Our schools must be in the forefront and provide the children with good tools to handle digital communications, and we need to discuss the responsibilities of the facilitator online. The Council of State has taken an initiative for joint cooperation on this issue. From the Labour Party we look forward to making more good proposals that we hope we can gather around – to the best of the social debate, the social exposure and our democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e1226	As well-being producers, municipalities are central and a solid local economy is important to ensure school knowledge, quality of health services and the strengthening of the social security network. The starting point for delivery is better than long. It is necessary to go back to the 1990s to find the same good economic results as we had in 2015–2018. At the same time, there is a record low number of municipalities in ROBEK. This gives a good starting point for focusing on nuclear activity, and I want to highlight the school effort in particular. Early efforts, efforts on the teacher and the strengthening of the professions are important for the Right. That is exactly why we have strengthened these efforts, so that the municipalities have a good basis. It's about giving our kids the best starting point in life and helping everyone have equal opportunities. Free core time in kindergartens and reduced parental pay for low-income families contribute to it. Early efforts start in kindergarten and can help counteract social differences, so we have high ambitions for content. We have put in place a framework plan for the kindergarten sector, we have set up a recruitment standard and a strengthened educational standard. It's about starting early to stimulate our little hopeful, because there's a lot of learning through smart and good play. But early effort is so much more. Now we have given extra funds and statutory obligations to ensure good transitions between kindergarten and kindergarten. The first meeting of young and young people with the school should and must be positive. Something as simple as knowing where the toilet is or greeting new adults contributes to a softer meeting and a better transition. The most important thing is to feel mastering, especially professional. It gives learning joys and increases self-confidence, and increases self-confidence contributes to lifelong learning. Early success, therefore, is at the heart of our policies. We need to ensure that all children acquire adequate skills in reading, writing and billing at the nursery. Since the government change, we have had a solid change of course, from late to early work in the school as well. However, studies show that we still have a different school in Norway. It has too much to say which school you go to, where in the country you live, and who your parents are. The right will fight the differential school, because the fight against the differential school is the fight for the knowledge school. Norway has among the best starting points in the world to create a school with opportunities for everyone, and we have to use that. There is then a misguided policy from the red-greens when they do not want to use surveys and withdraw Norway from the PISA, eliminate skills requirements, cut further education, have no requirement for a lower school-quality threshold or legal early intervention. [[President clubs]] Then we don't need a red-green policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e1240	The representatives have 3 minutes speaking time – not one second left or two.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e1245	The government says that local reform should continue. The Council of State has repeatedly stated that the aim of cleaning up as many municipalities as possible has not been achieved and that municipalities of less than 5000 inhabitants should be removed. In the article, the Council of State said that the municipalities should manage their own daily lives as much as possible. It is followed by instructions to the county councillors to continue the work of forcing the municipalities into new merger discussions. Kommune-Norge loyally followed up the government's orders to uncover mergers with the neighbor, to involve the inhabitants and to make their decisions, but most concluded that there was little to win and much to lose on a municipal merger. This testifies to zero respect for local democracy. The centre party believes that the income system should provide the basis for equivalent services across the country and that scattered settlement and activity across the country is a success factor for Norwegian welfare and business and a prerequisite for maintaining value creation and exploitation of resources across the country. A strong local democracy with a short distance between the inhabitants and those who govern, and the small operating benefits of the smaller municipalities, are advantages it is worth fighting for. We feel that the government does not share our goal that we should have value creation throughout the country. The municipalities are tired of new seminars, new investigations and new discussions about what they know neither the local politicians nor the people will be involved in. So many have made it clear that this is now going to be voluntary. That's all right, but the definition of volunteer can be so often; there's something we also call voluntary coercion. It is now assumed that the municipalities themselves realize that standing by themselves is too difficult, said Kjönnaas Kjos in his post. Yes, the government is constantly finding new creative approaches to strangling the small municipalities. It punishes the voluntary small municipalities, it requires self-reliance on the part of municipalities rather than being able to do so through inter-municipal cooperation. It increases growth grants, big city grants, etc., and it is deducted from the framework, so it becomes less to the rest of the municipalities. It continues the regional centre grant, which is a mere act of centralisation. It removes district industries, refuses the settlement of refugees, etc. A varied municipal structure adapted to the geography in close proximity to services is a prerequisite for maintaining value creation in Norway — and fortunately, it is a choice for the autumn. The Committee welcomes the fact that in the local elections of the harvest the population can express its opinion. So does the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e1260	That's good, because now speaking time is out.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e1265	I'll take up a field where there's little connection between goals and means, and also between life and learning, to say it like that. It is about giving content to all these celebrations that we have heard about bringing down the greenhouse gas emissions from the transport sector. We know that the transport sector accounts for about one third of greenhouse gas emissions. Now it's starting to be primary school, I think. Then the county has a central role to play. It has been shown that setting a zero-emission requirement in the event of a postponement of tenders is a very important tool. It's working. This applies not least to ferries and speedboats. But it has also been shown, in the case of the offer of coastal routes, for example, that they comply with the frameworks, according to the conditions. It has been shown that operators comply with the requirements, and maritime industries, which also build boats, are simply drivers of such development. It is Norwegian shipyards that are largely commissioned for the construction of zero-emission boats and, at any rate, for the construction of high-tech shipyards. We know this. This is a new common knowledge. So we have to think in two steps: Firstly, we must demand zero emissions, as we do in proposal No. 14, or a bonus solution for future zero emissions if the technology is not there entirely. This applies, for example: speedboats. It is gratifying that 70-80 elf ferries are on their way in the next three years – and then we have come to the next point: Municipalities must receive support to pay for the slightly increased costs when zero emissions are required, for example. on ferries. It is simply unreasonable that the Storting will decide on a claim and not allow it to follow the money. That's the whole point. Therefore, SV has earmarked additional grants to the county councils just for this. First, we did it as a sort of reward scheme within the transport budget, with 200 million. kr, but the current year we did it through earmarked grants to the local council, and we keep doing it. We also see that KS says that they actually need half a billion dollars to bring in zero emissions, as far as possible, over the entire mountain range, i.e. in all transport sectors. Well, that's at least 200 million. kr, as SV suggests, a bit on the road. I ask the representatives to be aware of the need there is. If you mean something with these party numbers, and if we actually claim zero emissions here in the hall, it has to go with money. It's simply not real, to use that expression, that we claim, but we won't pay for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e1280	That's where the municipalities value creation in our country happens. This is where the basis for the national economy, the State budget and the municipal proposition are laid. Then the question is, how do we apply locally to the value creation that is taking place in order for the municipalities and the community to develop? Because it's often not just about money, it's also about how we move power and authority down and out to the municipalities and enable the municipalities to master their own house and influence their own development. As far as regional reform is concerned, I perceive that all parties across the board agree on the intentions, but when matters come to consideration, often the red-green parties disagree, and it often becomes a hula choir. I have been rapporteur both under red-green and civil regimes. I notice that many here in the Chamber comment on this with unfunded reforms. I can promise everyone in the room that there were probably similar words that fell when the red-greens sat in government. In any case, reforms must be followed up locally, and then it is important for this regional reform to follow up the decisions taken locally. Transport and communication are an incredibly important part of local and regional reform. Responsibility is transferred locally in the case of fishing ports. In aviation, the responsibility for the FOT grant is transferred, and we also have the matter of road administration. It is precisely because it is important to see planning in context, to see it in context locally, and to facilitate the creation of value, income, housing and industrial development locally. This isn't centralization, it's not what the government adds up to, but it's amazing what is being characterised as centralization today. The right and government's intention with the community reform is precisely to facilitate more power and authority and development locally, thus creating better communities.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e1289	The term ‘hylechore’ has been invoked by a former President as being unparliamentary. I'm just paying attention to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e1294	It has been interesting to follow the debate in the Chamber today. Property taxes, recruitment, centralisation, resource-requiring users and what municipalities are going to do. I also noticed that there is a lot of talk on the part of the government about the municipal reform and the continuation of it, and that municipalities are small and too small. Then I just want to remind you that Norway is a common country with great distances – no doubt so – and I think most people are familiar with that. Then it's important that you have access to the services, and that you understand how important it is to access the services close to where people live, both on the outer island and in central areas. Property taxes have been discussed very much. That's true of many of the municipalities in my region. I'm at the usual vocabulary – when I'm not at Stortinget. During the budgetary procedure of the local government, I was not present as a spokesman. Then, in fact, there was a Right Spokesman running the local government, and there was no change in the property tax in that budget. The neighbourhood municipality, Rauma municipality, is in 8th place when it relates to the height of the property tax. It is also a Right- Controlled municipality. I don't think any spokespersons or local politicians want to raise the property tax or to have property tax, but sometimes one comes in situations where development is involved, and one is forced to use such an instrument. We've been lucky for the last few years with a high tax income. We are also lucky to have received a marine fund, which has brought the local economy along the coast evenly. It's been very good. But we see some dark clouds ahead. There are now several resource-requiring user services, it's coercion and power from the State, we see the interaction reform, we see health professionals as tired. Services in the specialist services that healthcare professionals are unable to deliver will be third down the municipalities. That's a big concern. It doesn't come with money in that context. It has also been said that small municipalities do not deliver. At the end, I would like to mention a municipality, Midsund, which has 2,000 inhabitants, who have been in line for this year's boat municipality. It has been important for that municipality. We also see that there are several municipalities. What little emerges in the debate on local reform is what the planning and development services do. Their closeness to the needs for investment and for doing things close to the inhabitants is underestimated in the discussion on local reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e1305	First of all, SV has nothing against it if the municipalities want it seam. But it's not that if you combine two poor municipalities with many old people, there'll suddenly be many younger ones or the distance will be shorter. Unfortunately, there is no simsalabim solution. Then it is not better for the government to both twist the income system so that these municipalities get less, and talk these municipalities down systematically, as if it were always better in the big municipalities and always worse in the small ones. That's not true. It's simply not true, what's being said about these municipalities. Then there's been a discussion about ringing. Yes, SV wants more earring than the government does. We do, because when we promise that child protection will improve, child protection will be improved, and when we say that there will be a commitment to low-threshold mental health services in municipalities, it will be. Then it should also be that those who sit on municipal boards should know just how much money the state has put on the table to realise this, and then they can put the state in charge if that money does not reach. Now it's just a black player game. You're asked to use the heads on both sides and later that, from the state side, it's possible to get everything you ask for. It's not, because the money doesn't go into it. My soul is very committed to services for people with developmental disabilities. I can promise you that around the country there are many who do not get what they are entitled to, sailing if the service is legal – it is a reality. There are groups that are not at the forefront when they are protesting for more money. It is not an economically strong force behind it, which threatens neither the bulk of the population nor the local government figures around it. That's why there's got to be a bigger strain on this. Many of the municipalities that have come out of ROBEK have just cut off some of the services of these people, but it seems that the majority is quite fine. You haven't looked at what this has gone through. SV believes that people with disabilities, people with developmental disabilities — and older people for that part — should have the same rights as us others to live a seagoing life. This is why we are promoting proposals that we now need to impose regulations on municipalities, including: at user-led personal assistance, so that municipalities stop scalding and choosing with that scheme. It costs money, and therefore SV prioritises money for these tasks – as opposed to the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e1318	So far in the debate today, the Labour Party has focused on the local economy, and they are trying to make an impression that the Labour Party is giving priority to it. But for me, it's kind of like playing with numbers when Sivertsen claims here that there's zero growth in free income in the period 2018-2020. We have very uncertain figures up to 2020. It's just budget numbers, so of course it's very uncertain. But if you look at the math from the period when they were red-green, and from the period until 2018 with the Solberg government and measuring it per capita, you get a completely different number. The reason why the Labour Party did well, and that there was a growth in the free income, was the way a funded nursery was until 2011. From 2011 onwards, free revenues were introduced, thus increasing free revenues. This government has tied up free incomes into very different norms — teacher norms, educational norms, recruitment standards — and of course it is helping to unify income in another way. So it might be nice to see this over a little bit of time. If you look over time at the red-green period and the current period – and play a little bit with numbers, as the Labour Party does, and calculates the percentage – it's 20 pst. higher free revenues from the government of Solberg than during the period of Stoltenberg. That's impressive. We see from the Workers' Party's alternative proposal that they increase the budget, which is 170 billion. NOK 1,4 pst. Bigger was in his post about what he was going to cover with the 1.4 percent: he was going to solve the challenges with collective, demente would get better, the schools would get better, it would be cheaper kindergartens and more added to the municipality, free school food and free SFO, and it would be more fun. There is no way you can cope with 1.4 pst. It's really fun to play with numbers. But it's okay to measure the output instead of the input -- I totally agree with that. The representative of the Zenterpartiet, Greni, used words such as "reorganization" of municipalities and "reclamation" of municipalities. I think the use of words is terrible to the local authorities who today claim that they are exhausting. They cannot meet their need for competence through cooperation. They can't add people or buy the services either. The question to the centre party is, how do you solve this? It is not about deleting or erasing municipalities. It's about creating services for the inhabitants.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e1329	At the right of the government party, small municipalities are hopeless to bow in. A few weeks ago, I was in the municipality of Solund. It is one of the smallest municipalities in this country. They have good services for their inhabitants, they have good growth in business, they have good coverage of teachers, preschool teachers and nurses. They no longer have the police, because it's the government that's gone, and everything that can taste of state jobs, whether it's Nav or there's other things, is erased by this government. But what they can create themselves, it works. Leikanger municipality in my county has had county administration, has had regional road office, has had diffi – with long search lists. I have visited all the institutions, and no one is taking it up with recruitment, that it is difficult – in a municipality with 2,000 inhabitants. Now it is just enough Sogndal municipality from the New Year, and then there will be several more, but I don't think the amount of the application will be much larger or smaller. It is terrible to sit in the office and to the right of this debate. It's terrible to hear the fury and disparaging that the government is doing to the inhabitants and the people in the smaller municipalities. It is shameful that representatives who know better stand on the platform, just to create a platform so that one can combine additional municipalities. We know – and I know it very well as I did in the past – that the merged municipalities are losing these services and boasting that they are kept. Go and travel to Moscow, which conspired with India. What's left in that municipality? What have they lost? They wouldn't lose a stroke. Indeed, schooling and care for the elderly – go count the workplaces and count the service units that are left. Then one can take the merged municipalities, one can only take them and see what is left of them in the former municipalities. And here's one and pretend it doesn't happen. It's so provocative. One thing was if they didn't know better, but they do. Now I should have at least five more minutes. I should have talked about Sogn and Fjordane County, I should have talked about the new Westland, which is going to start with minus 400 million. kr and cut into lots of projects, because they don't get the economy they should have had by this government. No, it's not much to boast about, what this government is asking for for us who are residents of districts and district municipalities in this country. But we have also heard clearly today that we are not water worth.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e1342	It should be noted that the term ‘disgusting’ has previously been cited by the Presidents as a non-parliamentary use of words.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e1348	The central party is the foremost counter-power of this centralization that the government stands for. We're accused of blackmailing, but what the Center Party is doing is pointing to the consequences of government policy. The consequences of centralisation sometimes become obvious also to representatives of government parties, when they see it in their own community environment. The government is now trying to put the red tape down traffic stations, for example: at Leknes, and then the local representatives wake up and – let's call it – start a complaint this time. Then it is wrong, then it is not possible to shut down. This is also the case in our home municipality when the representatives from the Right and the Advance Party – the Left and Christian People's Party have been wiped out long ago from our local government – look at what is important for our municipality in the future. Then they are quite clear that they do not want a municipal merger. They are totally opposed to the reform. Nevertheless, what's happening in the Storting through this government is. The government has reduced revenue to, for example: Northland with 460 million. kr annually from 2022. It is of concern that the representatives of the government parties do not see that such a reduction directly affects the services of the county municipalities. It's direct centralization. The centre party wishes to welcome transfers to the county councils, but the transfers of income must also accompany the tasks. There must be predictability in the county budgets to be provided. State Council Dale says, for example: in the transfer of the county road administration to the county municipalities, it is completely unclear which transfers they receive. If they accept an employee who is currently working in the State Road Administration and offers the employee a job, they will receive the funded salary of the one person. Then it becomes that if the county takes over, for example. 50 out of 250 who work with county road administration today, they get paid for the pay for 50 employees, while they need to hire 200 more to carry out the tasks that are present.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e1357	A number of representatives from the government parties go up and defend the local economy with the need to streamline it. Yes, but what do they think, in the Right Party, the Christian Party and the Left? Do they think that the municipalities out there are not doing more effectively? They do that every day. There's no way how much money you're going to go in by streamlining. But don't they see from the government parties that there are some limits to how small the administration can be, how few nurses it can be, how few nursery assistants it can be, and how fast these people can run? Are there no limits? Don't they see any limits to how much efficiency you can make? I would like to ask the previous rapporteurs, the representatives of Bransdal and Trellevik: do they know any municipalities and rapporteurs that are directly wasteful and do not do their job? If so, who is it? It may seem as if that's what they're saying and saying, there are many municipalities that are wasting their money. Then we're dealing with tax income and whether it makes sense to apply it to operations. It has not been answered here, but it has been answered in the comments of the Committee, because it explains the good results: ‘The Committee considers that it is a central aspect that these are non-recurring receipts or unforeseeable transfers that do not provide a stable basis for the economic performance of municipalities over time.’ In other words, the municipalities should have given more money over the frame, so that it became more predictable. So I just want to go a little bit back to the property tax, considering that whales, with a Progress Party-Right-driven policy, tops the list of taxing property. The rapporteur in Eidsberg, from the Right, said some time ago that the property tax is absolutely necessary, if not there will be a standstill in the municipality. – Yes, standstill, because the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People’s Party are unable to prioritize the municipal economy. They give priority to tax cuts for those who already have the most. Finally, on the regional reform and the municipal merger: the representative of Skjelstad and several others have argued that one of the sales arguments to merge the counties and municipalities was to facilitate access to state jobs. In Inner Eastfold we have one of Norway's largest municipal groupings: five municipalities merge. What is now being served? Yes, there is a need to remove, reduce, move and remove public employment. It is the result of the regional reform and the municipal merger — it did not improve the provision of services, as it appears.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e1377	The centre party wants a pledge of trust for municipalities and counties. We have developed and promoted our whole proposal in a separate document, and we will work to implement it at the end of the fall in each municipality and in each state. Last year we also presented several concrete proposals for a trust reform in the school here in Stortinget, because we believe that the main development work in the school takes place at each school, that the involvement of pupils and teachers improves decisions regarding the school, and that trust management must be the basis for school management. And below that, we believe that these principles must be based on: fewer and clearer targets objectives must reflect the broad social mandate of the school; participation and trust; Community and responsibilities of the professional We are promoting this in order to ensure students' prerequisites for a good life – with creative, committed and explored. The objective paragraph of the Training Act states that students have the right to participate. Working to promote this should not be controversial, but the government parties made this seem fairly controversial when we discussed this proposal last year. The central party believes that this promise of trust is needed in all sectors of the public sector. The political parties perceive differently what is good governance and what frameworks must be in place. The Centre Party believes that good administrative, political and professional management assumes that it is clear who has authority and responsibility in different situations. The big thing, like the government, must also be conscious of its roles. Digitalization opens new doors into an opportunity room we don't know the size of. Digital solutions can provide services close to people, given that you have internet and mobile coverage. At the same time, the warm hands, the clear minds and the beating hearts can spend their time on health, school and care for the elderly, to mention something. When the lack of nurses and teachers is spreading in the whole country, it is more important than ever that their working time is spent where it is most needed. The government parties have rejected the proposal of the Centre Party, but still claim to be in favour of trust and less bureaucracy. The Minister of Knowledge will take charge of time thieves. The Minister of Local Affairs will make it more effective. The government claims that they work against red tape, but the municipalities experience the opposite. The trustlift of the Centre Party is the solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e1405	When we are on the Transport Committee – and we hear that here in the house that we are often – we are told in all counties about the situation on the county road network. I think it's raised beyond any doubt that there's an enormous need for our county road network. I've seen numbers on our 60, 70, and No matter how big it is, it's very, very big. I learned that myself when I was visiting Ibestad in Troms some time back. I was taken to drive the county road out to Årbostad, on the north side of Antürja, and saw where the razed parts of the road were, and what fear the inhabitants who depended on using that road had. This is just one of many, many, many examples of what parts of our county road network look like. The county councils own the largest part of our road network, and they have proved to be good vegetarians. After they had been transferred even more of the road network for some years back, some road sections have actually happened more than before, when the state owned the same roads. So the county councils are good vegetarians, but they have to be able to manage and make sure that the roads are in a good constitution. The county councils will assume full responsibility for the administration of the county roads from next year. Several speakers have come up with that. So-called road management ceases. That reform is underfunded. There's not going to be any money with the problems, so it's going to be in addition to a name that needs big, big resources. Even more transport-related tasks will be transferred to county municipalities next year. I have mentioned the County Road Administration, but in addition, what is today the state fishing ports is transferred to the county municipalities. The contribution to the non-state aerodromes is transferred, as is the flight routes, i.e. the so-called FOT routes, which operate primarily on the short-haul network. The responsibility for the State broadband subsidy is transferred to the county municipalities and more of the TT transport is transferred to the county municipalities. I think the county councils in many of these areas can do a very good job, but they need money. Thus, counties who are already underfunded and who are struggling to provide good services today are getting a number of new tasks from the government, with no money. It's too bad.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e1420	Six out of ten Nordics think that Norway has a two-part healthcare system, and that the economy decides what treatment you get. This means that one perceives a clear distinction between private treatment for purchasers and a public health service that cannot always offer the best treatment. This is a serious state report on our public health system and the objective of equal supply, regardless of background. The best medicine to counteract these developments is to strengthen the public health supply, both in hospitals and in all our municipalities, where despite all the brothers of all health services and local emergency services are being carried out. In order to be able to do that, a priority must be given. We must give priority to the public quality services in our municipalities. That's one of the reasons why the Center Party prioritizes more than 4 billion. kr to the local government sector in the municipal proposition for next year. It is a fact that today's government has not followed up on the Interaction Reform. According to the National Audit Office's report of 2016, it was warned that the key reforms were not in place. Local authorities warn against patients being prematurely expelled from hospitals, and that the cooperation on patients requiring both primary and specialist services was not good enough. But the government rejected our proposals for an evaluation of the reform. In VG this weekend, there were night transports where 90-year-olds are moved home from hospital in the middle of the night. I think it's a symptom of a weak health service, which occurs when hospitals are pressed and have blown up capacity. It is a symptom of the consequences of the government's hospital policy, where the municipalities get the bill. This is an important reason for the crisis, because the local authorities are constantly getting new tasks and responsibilities without money. There is an important reason for the lack of midwifery in municipalities, because they get more tasks when hospitals cut during postnatal periods. This is why many municipalities feel that health services are becoming challenging, because healthcare professionals centralise the ambulance service, and then the municipal ‘first responder’ service remains responsible. Clearly, the cooperation reform should have been evaluated. It's a shame the government party is going against this. Now we have to close this gap, otherwise we won't get a proper health care. We need to strengthen the foundation wall of health services, and he's in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e1431	I would like to address a little of the same issue as the representative of Myrli – that the county councils are responsible for a huge road network: 44 000 km by road. It has been found that the county councils have been well-weighed after taking over large parts of the state road network, and analyses have been carried out from several bodies showing that the counties mainly spend more money on the new county roads than the state did before the administrative reform in 2010. Within its framework, the counties have high priority road construction and maintenance, and much of the road network taken over by the counties was in poor condition, with a large maintenance run. The centre batch has previously proposed a stepping-up plan to reduce the maintenance run on the county roads, and the county roads have been subject to such extensive delays over the year that it is difficult to see that it can be sufficiently repaired without a major State contribution. A maintenance programme could outline a follow-up plan for road maintenance with proposals for funding models and organisation for increased maintenance and network back-up. The economic structure of the county councils in this municipal proposal reduces the scope for action of the county councils and is likely to increase the maintenance run on the county roads. The struggle we see about the funds for the major projects where four-field motorways are built, versus getting money for the very important county roads, becomes – especially for the industries, and not least for the locals who live there, but I also want to hit a blow for the industries around this country – a challenge if you can't follow it up and it doesn't happen at the same time. In several alternative state budgets, the central party has set up an increased framework for county municipalities. It could make the counties better able to maintain the county road network. We also see that the government has changed the income system, so that some counties with many kilometers of highway have come out very badly. The basic document of the NTP for 2018-2029 clearly states: ‘There is a significant maturity on the county road network. The cost of repairing critical infrastructure such as tunnels, bridges and ferries is such that transport modes consider that a separate programme for renewal of county roads should be considered.’;» That's what we want to follow up. We will also have it as a matter of our own in Stortinget later this week.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e1449	First to Trellevik, who could not understand that I accused the government of wanting to delete municipalities: I just have to regret if I have misunderstood the many newspaper essays in which the Council of State has said that municipalities with less than 5000 inhabitants are not viable and have to be deleted from the map. We have other state councils that have called the small municipalities koseclubs and said we have to stop staying with such cos clubs, because the Norwegian state cannot afford it. But if I have misunderstood it, it would have been amazing if the Council of State could confirm that they are not endangered. I have a couple of challenges for the Council of State, of which I would like to have a clarification, and that concerns the financing of co-road administration. It is stated in the proposition that the state is transferred budgetary resources to the number of employees actually transferred from the State Road Administration. It's quite impossible to understand, because now employees have replied whether they want to join us or not. So it's entirely voluntary and completely random how much of the work force is going to be transferred to the county. Is it like a county municipality there 50 pst. says yes to be on top, gets funded 50 pst. of the costs they will bear with this task, and that there 100 pst. say yes to be above, they get funded 100 pst.? It would have been very good to clarify. The second concerns the inclusion of the veterinary watch system in the framework. It is not stated in the proposition whether this should be included in the usual framework according to population. Government batches have submitted a note stating that they are to be included in the framework of agricultural criteria. Both parts will be wrong. The last one is going to be a little bit less error than the first one. The agricultural criterion is based on the number of agricultural holdings and the area. In other words, a region with a lot of cereals and a lot of cereals, a lot of vegetable producers, etc. will have a large share of the subsidy, while districts that actually have animal husbandry can have a much smaller share. We know that the Great Oslo district, which includes most municipalities around Oslo – Bærum, Asker etc. – has as much in grants as the veterinary district of Røro. They believe that this is a very sensible distribution, because the need for a veterinary watch is equally great in the two districts because there are very few livestock in the Great Oslo veterinary district. Can the Council of State clarify how this is actually intended to be distributed between these municipalities? I am very concerned that this preparedness will be weakened by such a scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e1460	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e1465	I will address the proposal to have more voting rights for 16-year-olds. I have to say, I am very sorry that the government has completed those attempts. The SV and the Left promote basic legislative proposals on the voting rights of 16-year-olds in the event of a roll-call vote, and this is absolutely necessary, because the future of these young people is at stake. They've now struck all over the world and told us that we need to take more into account their future and opportunities than we've done before. I've seen the commitment, the knowledge and the responsibility shown by these young people – not just to themselves, but to society and the future – and it's time to give 16-year-olds the right to vote. The tests that have been carried out have been good, and therefore we propose to have more of these tests in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e1472	The representative of the Kjönaas Kjos of the Party of Advancement, a party which, besides that post, has been rather absent from the debate, has opened up a number of questions about what the Progress Party really believes. On the one hand, the Progress Party in the Committee wants to be involved in the framework management as a model for Norwegian municipalities, and on the other hand they want more to be under state control. It was even said that Norwegian municipalities are built up of different ideologies, but Norwegian municipalities are built up by the laws and frameworks laid down by this hall. In this context, it is interesting to note that the Progress Party, which is otherwise very concerned with, among other things. infrastructure, failed to mention one of the major areas in the infrastructure sector, which is crucial for how to get to work, how to manage to get more value creation, and how to manage to be safe in everyday life. So the relationship with the county roads, which is a significant part of the road network, was not recorded. Yes, large parts of the road network in this country are county roads. We have also been in the debate on how we can finance their administration, operation and maintenance. But I'm not going to go into that. When the Progress Party raises the highways high, they at the same time fail to tell us that the highways have been down-prioritized. It would have been interesting to hear if the Progress Party has any intention of how to enable the states to take care of the many transport years that are out there. Once again, it's the same bag of money that is going to finance this overall, whether it's county roads or national roads. At the same time, we know that, after the 2010 reform, the county councils have been better off – despite the lack of resources – than they were in the past. It would have been useful to get an answer to that. The county councils are central to the work on, inter alia: the development of public transport. In many cases it requires a path to go on or a berth to attach. In particular, with regard to public investment in low- and zero-emission technologies on ferries, boats and buses, county municipalities have taken the responsibility that this room has placed on them, without wishing to finance it. It is also believed that the short-term decline of 16-18-year-olds will be able to pay for this figure. The contribution of county municipalities to reducing CO2 emissions in the transport sector is significant, but the funding mechanism is not in line with the objectives set by this room. The Central Party believes that the county councils should have been better able to achieve the objectives set by the State and the Stortinget for them, especially now that the decisions taken by the county council are being followed up, without having been chosen to provide sufficient funding. It creates great uncertainty. Finally, our approach to the municipal sector would have provided a significant boost and opportunity for the development of services throughout the country. It's a shame you can't discuss this more than you've chosen to do here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e1487	The representative of Ove Trellevik has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e1493	Then I will answer the question from Lauvås. He wondered if they were sloppy spokesmen. I don't want to owe them for being wasteful, but I have our spokesmen myself, and it may be demanding to get multiples. In the period before I was elected spokesman, the Right cooperated with the Labour Party and the Center Party, and it was completely impossible to prioritize. It was very demanding. When I was elected spokesman, we cooperated with the Left and Christian People's Party, and we prioritised. We made a big priority. We put down seven children's schools and built three new ones. Teachers are happy, students are happy, and the sitters are happy. If one goes into municipal data.no and reads how one prioritizes in the municipalities, and who introduces property tax and not, one could subtract from the statistics that the red-green parties tend to choose property tax versus being willing to prioritize in their own municipalities. Our experience of prioritizing is very good. We broke up, all three parties. Right got almost 50 pst. The inhabitants were very happy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e1498	This debate could perhaps have been accompanied by the song of D.D.E., it's going on, because it has been refuted in this debate, where the representatives of the government parties have been busy telling us that everything is going so well now. There should be a lack of success in a country as good as Norway. It's not like things have been out of control, but we have some political dividing lines and we disagree on some priorities. Through the debate, I have reflected on the fact that when the representatives of the government parties talk about the good results in the municipalities, they have actually talked about two things. They have talked about the ROBEK list, which is a register of municipalities that have not had control of their accounts and that have had too much expenditure in relation to their incomes, and then they have talked about financial results. I have to say that when I talk about results in the municipalities, I think I am more concerned about what all the residents get again. What services do they receive? Do they get the services they actually require? Do they get that quality, and is there room to offer even better services? It may be a more important result of municipal activity. Then I have to pay a little visit to the representative Trellevik. After his last speech, I understand that in the light of his own excellence, he should have been rapporteur in most of the municipalities in this country, because then things had changed. In the Labour Party, on the other hand, we believe in more rapporteurs than just Trellevik. We actually think it's those people who live in the municipality who know best how to solve the challenges you're facing if we give them assumptions. The representative Trellevik was also very concerned about our game of numbers and that there were so insecure numbers we had based on. We don't play with numbers. We're based on the numbers that come from the government, we're based on those assumptions. It's not our numbers, it's the government's number, so that criticism gets the representative to direct his own government – if he thinks it's irresponsible the government presents. The representative should be. This is indicated by the setting. But what does this mean? The difference in average real growth between the red-green government and the Solberg government is 0.6 percentage points per year. What does that mean? Well, during the government period of the government of Solberg, it means a loss of income for the municipal sector of 14 billion. kr. And even in 2019 and 2020 is 14 billion. kr money. You get some schools for that, you get some nurse jobs, you get more employees in kindergartens. I'm going to end by saying that the Council of State earlier today was very concerned that in the opposition we were not completely consistent when it came to earmarked grants. When I challenged her if you wanted to go in to get rid of everyone, she was very clear that it was important. But I have noticed that several of the government parties' representatives have been up and running all the new earmarked schemes they have put in place, and that they provide better quality services around the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e1515	If it goes ‘like no’, as the previous representative said, you can look at the eyes that look at it. I began to think of a song that says, "You'll get a day in a row that's clean and unused". The framework we put here should give us some opportunities in the municipalities and county municipalities. It is quite clear that there are some limitations, because this is not black and white, the purse is not infinite. Some believe that the money bag is strangled too much, and that the only rewarding answer to this is money. Everything's going to be so good. I was challenged to know if it was wasteful municipalities – not rapporteurs. No, it's a term I don't want to take in my mouth, but I know quite clearly that an organization or part of an organization that is allowed to stay in peace for too long, and that has enough money, it's getting bigger. There's not much development at all. There is such an incredibly good development in the municipal sector, with a lot of dynamism and great curiosity to develop further. It's our job to facilitate that, and we'll have to take the discussions that come, whether there's sufficient or insufficient tools. Yes, the Christian People's Party belongs to a government constellation. No, the Christian People's Party has not got what we want on every point. But show me that party in this room that's been in a government coalition that's got it – so keep it in mind when we're going to move on. Otherwise, I wish all of us good luck and good luck to all local politicians.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e1528	In recent times there has been a big toll debate in Norway, and tomorrow we will have a toll debate in Stortinget. The government has proposed – and a large majority on the Stortinget have joined – three new road projects. And only on the three road projects will between 15 and 16 billion be required. kr in tolls. The recent toll debates have been mainly held in our major cities, which have urban packages, urban environment agreements, urban growth agreements – they have a slightly different name – and where tolls have two purposes. One is to finance transport measures; the other is to regulate car traffic. The government – and both the current and the previous Minister of Transport – says that they do not require our big cities to impose tolls. However, the state’s negotiators – the government’s representatives – who participate in the negotiation meetings on urban packages and urban growth agreements in major cities require cities to introduce tolls as a tool to achieve the overall objective of zero growth in car traffic. The Minister of Transport and the Government then say that instead of taking in tolls, municipalities can count on their own budgets to give priority to strengthening, for example, funds. public transport – heavy, large billion-dollar investments in Oslo, Akershus, Trondheim, Bergen and Nord-Jären in collective projects, which, of course, it is unrealistic for county municipalities to spend large, large amounts of money to finance. Are they going to take money from the county roads? Are they to take money from the fishing ports for which they are responsible, from routes, from non-state airports, or from broadband or TT transport for which they are now also responsible? Or are they going to take money from high school? It is not realistic for county councils to take large amounts of their own budgets to finance collective development. But where are the speakers from the government parties who link the toll debate to what we are discussing today – the municipal economy of the future? It's nobody. We hear none of the representatives of the government parties talk about the county councils now, in order to avoid tolls, in addition to everything else they have to do, spending a lot of their own money on financing public transport. It's not going to happen. Government parties also know that. That's why they're not saying it in this debate, and I don't think they're going to say it in the toll debate tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e1545	Thank you for a good debate so far. Let me comment on some of the business I have received from different representatives. The representative, Mr. Schlagsvold Vedum, and, in particular, the representative, Arnstad, gave the impression that I had banned discussing the municipal reform in the election campaign. I certainly don't. I would strongly encourage discussing the municipal reform in the election campaign. My only point has been that new municipal governments should sit down and discuss their local authorities, their prospects, their ability to gain sufficient competence, their inter-municipal cooperation, and in what areas. I encourage new municipalities to – and I would also like to take my neighbor’s talk. But of course there is no prohibition on discussing this in the election campaign. On the contrary, I think there are good debates that will make the election campaign even better. The representative Sivertsen uses figures based on estimates in 2019 and 2020. He could have chosen to base himself on knowledge-based numbers and the latest figures we have from 2018. Of course, the figures would not have been in relation to the debate and the conclusion he has drawn, but they are estimates, and they are uncertain. To the representative of Greni: in the case of the veterinary guard: Medical care for human beings is required by law. We don't drive and we don't label it. In the case of a bodyguard for animals, it's also mandatory, but that's what we have to label. We do not think that is necessary. The municipalities that have these expenses have a legal obligation to have the service available, and we distribute it according to the agricultural criterion because it is the best assessment we can find. The alternative is to keep ear marking, but it's not necessary. This is a task the municipalities have, and which I have full confidence – as opposed to the Center Party – in taking them seriously. Let me conclude by thanking those who have taken up bullying and the shivers of politicians, and especially local politicians. I just have to say, I'm seriously worried. We need people who do good, whether it's sports, culture or politics. We know that we need a lot of people who set up every week, doing a job in addition to work and family, to carry on local democracy. They should not be found in bullying and harassment – and should not dry out what they think. I'm very happy with the recordings. I hope we have a good meeting, and I hope we will get some action so that we can actually get up and say that this will not have, so we will not have it in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e1558	First, I want to join the last of what the Council of State said. It's a growing problem. We think there's cross-political agreement that this is what we have to do with, and we have to do something with it fast. So to the veterinary watch system: I don't understand the government's argument that this can be compared with medical care, because animal production around the country has a significantly different structure than the population. This will mean that the areas with a lot of livestock will have to finance it from their own budgets. The areas that have large agricultural areas where there are no livestock will have this as a plus and can use it for completely different purposes. This arrangement I'm afraid will collapse. The Veterinary Association has warned against this, it has warned agriculture, and it is quite serious if this preparedness is not maintained. So the Council of State was at all not within the scope of my second challenge, which was on the same road administration and how it should be financed. Is it that one should only fund the posts of those who happen to agree to be employed in the county council? Are they the ones to be financed? Or should a similar number of jobs be funded as those who have actually worked on these tasks in the State Road Administration? This is extremely important for the county councils, which are now going to be involved in budgetary processes. I would like to inform you that the Central Party will support proposal No. 20, from Red, because this is so unclear that it is necessary to clarify here that the task that we are transferring to the county councils, which we agreed would be transferred to the county councils through the regional reform, is to be fully financed.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e1569	Willfred Nordlund has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e1574	I'm going to do something different than I did instead, I'm going to praise the Progress Party for having now agreed that there are specific reasons for the North Norway grant, and that this is important to provide a level of revenue for the Northern Norwegian states that enable them to meet the specific challenges and opportunities of the continent. It is a new tone, it pleases me, and the Progress Party will have to pay tribute to the fact that they now agree with the committee. Norway’s wealth is built on natural resources, we have a long-term country, and the administrative division — that is, the structure of the municipality — will have an impact on the development of this country. I registered that the Council of State came with a partial recognition that how you administratively choose to build this country will have an impact on development, not only for recruitment, etc., but also on what it looks like. Then I wish everyone the best of luck in the election campaign. I note that we in this Chamber want a different Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e1583	Stein Erik Lauvås has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e1588	The government's reference to the municipalities inspired by Bransdal: "You will get a day at a time when there is a cut and fall, and beg your pardon if you don't merge." The facts remain: the municipalities do not receive enough funds from the government to develop their services. It's a shame, and the Workers' Party's proposal for three billion. kr more to the municipalities for 2020 appears to be even more sensible now than when the debate started.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e1596	There has been an interesting debate, and I thank you for many contributions, but there has been a debate that only affects the top of the iceberg in relation to what we are facing, and what we are facing in the years to come. There has been a debate on the Workers' Party's 3rd billion. kr, and someone else has a few other billions. It's fine, I see they're proud of it; it's probably nice things you can do for that money. But it is not the money that provides solutions that the next generation in our country can live with in a good way and continue the welfare society we have today. I feel that this hall – and the opposition in particular – really refuses to enter into the big, important discussion, which is about system. The government says that the combination of municipalities is important for the small municipalities. I cannot say that I feel that we have managed to conduct some good, factual debate on it. There has been massive criticism, and good examples from small municipalities have been found of how things have been solved. Of course, there are many good examples in small municipalities, but I haven't had an alternative from the Central Party on how they intend to solve this, except that they point out that they will do as they have done before. You want to do what you've done before, but that's because we've done what we've done, that we're there. It's because we haven't made any changes before, that we see a trend that's been going on for decades and that's about centralisation. Of course it's about centralization. It is an international trend that has hit all societies almost earth wide: modern living, public supply expectations, welfare expectations, service quality expectations, have made people move to cities. That also applies in our country. If you want to stop what is such a strong underlying trend, you have to come up with something more than slogans. Then it demands that you have a real counterpower, a political counterpower, to solve it, and the Center Party has, of course, not demonstrated to be any counterpower in this. This is so thin that it's greedy as to what the next generation is facing. Here the bill is sent on, without any reservations. I hope we can move forward on later occasions and discuss what are real challenges related to tomorrow's well-being in tomorrow's Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e1607	It's out in Municipality-Norway people both live and live their lives. It's where the welfare community's offerings evolve every single day by local elected representatives who are happy in their municipality, who are happy in their inhabitants, and who live close to where people live their lives. I come from Orkdal, who from New Year becomes part of Orkland. There are four municipalities that merge – not because of the government, but despite the government. These are four municipalities that have worked together for a long time to see what opportunities they have to improve the provision of services for their citizens, to employ more kindergarten teachers, to the best of those in kindergarten, to employ more teachers and to have more early schooling, so that children and young people both learn more and thrive better. They have done this in order to build more hospitals and provide better elderly care for our elderly and to expand the cultural offer in the municipalities, so that it is not just about going to work or being at an institution, whether it is kindergarten, school or hospital, but also about having good offers that give good experiences, good identity and pride over your own municipality. When the Workers' Party proposes 3 billion. kr extra to Kommune-Norge, it's just about that. It provides better welfare for those living in Municipality-Norway. When this regional reform and the municipal reform were presented, it was in order to create stronger municipalities, larger municipalities with greater power of action, robust municipalities that could provide a wider range of services. In my own municipality, Orkdal, which has 12,000 inhabitants, and in the new municipality, Orkland, which will have almost 20,000 inhabitants, the traffic station is shut down to centralize and send students and local businesses from the district to the city, which means that students get longer travel time and more absence. It does not harmonize with what was the starting point of this municipal reform. We have to create jobs and take care of them so that people can live in the municipalities and live their lives and have a good offer where they live.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e1620	I would like to thank the representative Thommes for letting cats out of the bag: for the right, this is about system – today's debate has been too little about system. For me, the community proposition is about people, it's about services to the inhabitants of the municipality, it's about having good growing-up conditions for children and young people in the municipality. But for the right, this is obviously about system. We have suspected this for a long time, because the municipal reform is necessary for one thing: it is necessary for the decommunisation of services and the privatisation of municipal services. That is all this community reform is necessary for. It was said that we can't do what we've done, that's why we're there. Yes, of course it is. This is why Norway is a much more decentralised country than neighbouring Sweden. It's because until 2013, we had an effective offensive district policy that aimed to have jobs, housing and living communities across the country. That is the policy that the government is now in the process of destroying. And the representative Thommessen is completely wrong when he says that people have moved to cities because they want quality in services. Numerous studies show why centralisation is taking place: it is because the workplaces are there. People don't want to move to cities – they have to move to cities because they don't find work for themselves and their partner in a district municipality. The government is also doing its best to make it worse to find work in a district municipality. I can mention fur animal nutrition, I can mention traffic stations, I can mention police services, I can mention tax offices – I can keep for an hour to frame up what has moved. Of course, it gets worse to live in a district municipality. What the representative forgets to mention is that if you were to move according to the quality of the service, we would think it was a huge relocation from the big cities, because the inhabitants of the big cities are much less satisfied with the primary services than the inhabitants of the small municipalities. With the exception of public transport, which is not present in the district municipalities, residents are consistently much more satisfied in the smallest municipalities than they are in the large urban municipalities. So all of that reasoning doesn't hold water at all. If we agree to bet on facilitating jobs in the district, we will solve the challenges for these small municipalities. And as I said, intermunicipal cooperation is a strength, not a weakness.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e1637	The representative, Eirik Sivertsen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e1642	I took the floor to inform you that the Labour Party will also vote in favour of proposal No. 20, which has been promoted today. Since I'm here today, I have to comment on the claim that I should take historical figures as my starting point. With all due respect to report, what we are debating today is the municipal proposition for 2020. The financial envelope to be provided by municipalities for their work next year is based on the estimates made by the government. But then the Council of State says that I can't make what the consequences of government policy are, based on the government's own figures. It doesn't have a goal. I understand that the government doesn't like it, but the fact is that seeing a 2018, 2019 and 2020 in conjunction with the estimates that the government is basing itself on in its own policy is zero growth in the real income of the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e1649	The representative Olemic Thommess has the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e1654	The post that Mr. Greni just made could have been held 30 years ago. She's talking like centralization is something that started in 2013. It's not. Centralisation is a trend that has gone on for many, many decades – from the 1960s onward, perhaps ever since the war. We've spent money, we, to bet on nourishment in the districts, bet in the districts. I have not heard anything else since I started in the Young Right when I was 14, but that we were going to bet on the districts – exactly what we have said all the way. Nevertheless, progress has been slow, but probably the same way – maybe a little slower in Sweden, I agree with that, it has helped a little, but it has not solved the challenge. Now we're facing a demographic development that will make it accelerate. Then it might be time to look for other tools than the ones we've seen that haven't worked, and try to figure out something that actually works. We owe it to the next generation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e1661	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e1677	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e1686	I would like to thank the Committee for a good work, and I am also pleased that there is a great deal of consensus on the main elements of this message. On 22 July 2011, Norway was hit by the most serious and shocking terrorist act since World War II. In the government quarter, eight people were killed and at least 200 injured. The material damage was great. The task of repatriating the government quarter following the terrorist attack is both demanding and extensive and will extend over several major periods. Investments are growing, and the project obviously has a lot of public interest. There is a lot of emotion and perceptions about the history of the quarter and how a new government quarter will work in Oslo City. The Committee has therefore been concerned that the government quarter should perform several functions. First of all, the Government Quartet must be a place of work for more than 4000 employees in central government and for political direction in government. They shall have a functional and flexible job which provides room for new forms of work, technological development and greater inter-ministerial interaction. There must be a good place to work, while ensuring the necessary safety. Since the concept selection investigation, the size has been greatly reduced. The draft project on which this Storing Message is based was in place in December 2018. The project is now in a pre-project phase, with details of the solutions. Under this, environmental solutions and, in particular, cost estimates shall be specified. It is clear from the Committee that the Government Quartet should have ambitious environmental requirements and that it should express Norwegian construction practices in a good way. At the same time, I would like to add that in such a large construction project, it is very important to have good cost control. It is essential that the story of what happened on 22 July 2011 continues to be told in the new government quarter. The 22nd of July centre was opened as a temporary centre, but it has been shown to meet an important need for the population. The 22nd of July is a learning center, but it's also an important memory for many, and I have a great understanding of the input we've got into the process that some of the strength in today's center is in its position. I am therefore particularly pleased that the Committee jointly makes the following proposals: ‘The government asks that as far as possible of the 22nd of July centre as it stands today should be preserved and become an important element of the new government quarter.’ With this I would recommend the setting of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e1706	Thank you to the Committee for good cooperation on the matter. As the Committee refers to in its summary, this is described as the most serious and shocking terrorist incident since World War II in this country, and the reconstruction of the government quarter is of great national importance. Then it turns out that there's a lot of public interest, and that there's a lot of feelings and perceptions related to the memories after the events on July 22, 2011, to the government quarter and the history behind it. It also highlights the important function of the government quarter as a symbol of Norway as a democracy, and in the light of the acts of terrorism on 22 July, the symbol function becomes particularly important. Then it is necessary to highlight the 22nd of July and the unique importance of the Centre for the future. The Committee is essentially united on the importance of the 22nd of July and, as it also says, in a single comitology: ‘The Committee further points out that the Centre has become an important place that has met the needs of the population to remember the victims of terrorism and the actions that have shaken our country on 22 July 2011. The Centre is a learning centre, but also has an important function as a memory place for many.» The Committee also points out that the 22nd of July Centre tells the story of what happened, where it happened. It was in the government quarter the attacks started, and it's in the entrance party to the 22nd of July and inside the 22nd of July, i.e. the eastern pavilion, that the wounds are most visible. Therefore, the Workers' Party believes that moving the 22nd of July centre away from the scene will remove the traces of terror and the terrorist, and we fear that it will facilitate conspiracy theories associated with who was behind it, why the attacks happened, and whether there was at all. In addition, the Committee agrees that moving the centre away from the High Block will be a strong symbol action in itself, so it must be understood that it is not appropriate to do so. We also point out that after 22 July and the AUF during the consultation in Stortinget, the National Support Group expressed a wish that the 22nd July centre be preserved in the new government quarter. The Committee has shown an understanding of the desire to preserve the authentic remains of the buildings most affected by the attack and believes that the government should preserve as much as possible of the centre as it currently stands. That's why we also have our own comment, along with the Center Party, where we share the AUF and the support group's views that the eastern pavilion and the area that extends from there to the entrance of the day are the most central parts to preserve the centre's narrative power. There's a lot of consensus about that, and I hope the government will follow suit. I take up the proposal that the Workers' Party, together with SV, is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e1722	The representative Stein Erik Lauvås then mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e1727	It's almost eight years since the terrorist attack on the government quarter and Utøya. Terror shook the whole nation and created permanent wounds. Work on a new government quarter has been carried out through a comprehensive planning phase where different considerations have been taken into account to the best of their ability. The country needs a government quarter to ensure both functionality and job design, security, urban environment and the environment. The government quarter is an important building project in which the buildings both have an important symbolic value and will last for generations to come. Building up the government quarter is extensive work. There are many cross-cutting considerations to take, and it will be impossible to fulfill everyone's wishes. In the process of this big business message, however, I am sure that we have had a sound process, in which most parties can reconcile themselves with the new building and the new solutions. How we, as a nation, should deal with the cruel acts of terror that struck us on July 22, is something very many, including myself, have thought a lot about in the years that have gone by. There are many considerations that need to be assessed against each other, both human, cultural, legal and practical. This is not a matter of marking the major political disagreements, but a matter where it has been important for us to find solutions that everyone can be satisfied with. The Y-block and the H-block have been, and will also be in the future, important buildings for the country's history. The solution of placing the «Måken» and «Fiskers» in the A-building believes the Progress Party is good. Landsbygg will continue to work, in cooperation with KORO, on the location of the ‘Måken’ in the public entrance of the A-building, and the ‘Fischers’ over the VIP entrance in the same building, towards Einar Gerhardsen’s place. This is based on unique technical advice from KORO and State Building. For the Progress Party, it has been important to listen to those who have strong opinions about design, accessibility and architecture. We have also found it absolutely necessary to listen to the experts in the field of construction, as we believe that their competence must weigh heavily on the matter. The Progress Party would have preferred to have seen that we had avoided planning for an open landscape model, but we also see that it would be difficult to land a construction project with significantly higher costs than planned. Finally, I would like to express the great understanding of the Advance Party for the support group of the survivors, the AUF and the Labour Party's views on the matter around July 22nd. I am very pleased that the Committee has arrived at a proposal that will take their views on the matter very seriously. We have to take seriously that there are conspiratory forces in society that will so doubt history. That's why it's important that we stand together and take action to ensure a true story story in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e1744	On 22 July 2011, Norway was hit by the most serious and shocking terrorist incident since World War II. The size has now been addressed by the EEAS, which is about the reconstruction of the major material damage caused by the terrorist attack. Nevertheless, it is the human injuries and wounds that are often hidden, but we will see the result of the attempt to restore the government quarter in Oslo. That's how the government quarter has to stand over time. It's a symbol building. It matters both to how we perceive ourselves, and also to how we commit ourselves to being able to have a work ahead of us in this country, how the political environment will work, and how to prevent such attacks from happening in the future. The buildings set the framework for the conditions under which employees can meet these conditions. The issue is therefore of major national importance, and the big picture points to a number of elements in this respect. The 22nd of July centre is very important to a lot of people. It is therefore a great pleasure that we are able to reach an agreement where we keep as much as possible of the tracks that the terrorist attack set, and not least maintain the means of communication that the Centre has both given and will provide in the future. The possibilities that also arise now when we are building a new government quarter must be taken care of. That's why Stortinget has had the matter under consideration both through other propositions and also Document 8 proposals, because it's about building in a future perspective both when it comes to security, when it comes to climate and environment, and when it's going to create a good urban space, to mention some of the elements. So at the same time, we're going to take care of the story. It's interesting to notice that you add up to a tightening in terms of, among other things. how employees are allowed to expand in the government quarter and how they are allowed to do their work. I record that the government says that the employees and the employees' representatives have participated in the process. It is those who are going to have their place of work in the government quarter in the future, and I find reason to stress that participation is something other than participation, after the main agreement in the state. Finally, I would like to say that this is a construction project that is going to go in several steps and over a long time. The size is likely to require continuous information from the government, and that you are kept constantly informed. With that, I'd like to address the proposal of the Center Party is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e1761	The representative of Willfred Nordlund has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e1766	This matter I think we all wish we had never had to have. I believe that we should rebuild everything the way it was, with the exception of the memory center, because I believe terrorists should not be city planners. Now it's not going to be like this. Now, when we're going to build, we have some comments on what's being presented. SV believes that the premise that all departments, with the exception of the Ministry of Defence, should be brought together, places some unfortunate constraints both on the workplace concept, on urban planning and on the specific status of the area. Security is important. That is why we believe that – with all probability – you still have to rent premises elsewhere in the foreseeable future, and that should have been the case. The land standard used is too small, and the message says very little about good employment and inclusive working even in the state sector. These are several houses that are supposed to last 100 years, and 70 pst. of the operating costs are personnel costs. The workplace concept places too much emphasis on activity-based movement during the working day, while the need for good ordinary jobs is not given much attention. I would like to refer to the professional assessments carried out by the Labour Inspectorate, which the government has only ignored. It is well that the government believes, as they do otherwise, that people should go to work both when they are poor, when they have long-term health problems and preferably also until they are far beyond retirement age, and then one should better put the working conditions for it also in state activity and in the government quarter. This is an important labour force for which the government needs to take good care, and it is not done by making these job concepts to which they now refer, and the research to which they also refer does not at all show the result they are saying. This is also a very important project in which we can test out that we are able to get emission-free both plant, operating and demolition phases and use it as a development project for business. Therefore, it is also important that the government return to the Storting with the emission targets that are and are found along the way, so that it is possible for the Stortinget to correct the price, if necessary. So we have to use this big project to make sure that it's a model project for other developments in the future, because we have to cut climate emissions everywhere. I would then like to address the suggestions that SV is promoting in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e1783	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e1788	The reconstruction of the government quarter following the terrorist attack on 22 July 2011 is of national importance and the quarter is an important democratic symbol. Of course, when we are about to build for the future, we must not forget the past. We must not forget why we are building a new government quarter. To this end, the 22nd July centre should have a central location in the government quarter. The government quarter will be more open, green and accessible, with new urban spaces, park and green pockets. There will be multiple times and cycles between east and west, and easier to move. The Government Quartet shall be built to facilitate an efficient and efficient state apparatus for a very long time perspective. The collection of all departments except the Ministry of Defence will provide a better framework for cross-ministerial interaction. The land standard and the work concept provide great flexibility in changing the structure, division of tasks and forms of work. The solution is well adapted to the different needs of working life. The land standard is more liberal than for private sector office buildings and new state buildings in other countries. I am sure that the quarter will facilitate a productive and good working environment. In the reconstruction of the government quarter following the terrorist incident in 2011, security is central and provides a clear framework for the development of the project, for example: for choice of materials and costs. At the same time, the safeguards allow us to plan and build a much more open, safe and green quarter than the quarter we had before the terrorist incident. We have high environmental objectives and a high focus on the environment and greenhouse gas emissions throughout the life cycle of the project. State buildings have been commissioned to provide certification at the level of BREEAM Excellent. The environmental programme contains 58 environmental objectives divided into eight main chapters. Another aspect of the construction phase is ensuring good working conditions and combating the crime of working life, and State Building has serious demands in the Norway summit. It's almost eight years since the bomb exploded. We have been through a thorough process to plan a safe, open, dignified and sustainable government quarter. We're a lot of people who are looking to make the spade stick in the ground, so that we can apply a new and better government quarter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e1810	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e1815	A central dilemma we face in this matter is security considerations regarding public access to important national cultural monuments. Practical solutions must be in place if one is to be able to meet the proposal that a — probably — unanimous increase is to be voted on today. I wonder: can the Council of State say anything about when the window of the practical solution to try to meet the intentions of the decision of the Storting is closing?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e1822	It closes when we make a decision. But we must not take that decision with it all, first of all. I'm busy that we're going to spend the time that is necessary. The plans are going, and some facilities are actually being built right now. But it is not that we come to a point where we have come too far to make the right decision, and that is the right decision I am concerned with. It has been shown that it is demanding to place the 22nd of July centre right where it is today, together with the SMK, for safety reasons. It makes it difficult, but it also means that we have to go all the way, we have to try to find good solutions, and I am primarily concerned with a very good dialogue with the support group and the AUF to get it done. That's what we're working on.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e1829	Then I thank you for that answer and would also like to take the opportunity to thank the Council of State for the attendance in this process that has been taking place. If I have then understood this correctly, it means that the Council of State will also be open to recording practical, concrete solutions – which are, of course, within the area of safety – and that solutions presented beyond the harvest will be relevant for an assessment in the final solution. Then I have a new question, and it is linked to a project as large as this – indicated in the order of 15-20 billion. kr over a long time. There are some of the most important buildings in Norway, both symbolically and in practical terms. Can the Council of State be specific in what way she will involve the Stortinge in the work – also because the Stortinge has been concerned with extending the objectives, both related to climate, environment, labour-life crime and some other conditions?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e1836	First, of course, we are very responsive to good input into good solutions. I do not understand that there is any political disagreement that we want both to get to a 22nd July centre that meets the wishes of the support group and the AUF, and to have a government quarter and a Prime Minister's office with all this involved. Then we have to try to work as best we can to get it done, and I can simply say in faith and honour that that's what we're working for. When it comes to involving the Storing, it has to be done in the way that the Storing considers appropriate, and in the way that we can do it. Until today, we are involved in informing the state budget. There might be other ways to do it, but we just have to get back to that. We have now been busy delivering a big message as quickly as possible, based on the fact that we are not even finished with the project, but to involve Stortinget. We think that's important, and we think that'll be important in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e1845	The Council of State said in its statement that the solution facilitates a good working environment. Employee organisations strongly disagree with the hearings we have received. It is added to very few cell offices, and unfortunately it is also added that no one should have a permanent job. It worries me a lot. Research compiled by researchers from the Labour Inspectorate, the Institute for Public Health, the University of Oslo and the National Institute for Safety and Health at Work, etc. states that this has very negative health consequences, and that the lower cost of building less can be lost quickly, in lower production, higher sick leave, etc. In other words, what we save on investment can quickly come back, so that we can double the cost of operating. Are we now in the process of being so space-efficient that we're saving ourselves?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e1854	This is not a question with one phase and two lines under the answer. That's how we have to know what to build. We need to know how much we're going to build, we need to know where we're going to build, and we need to know how much it's going to cost. Then we have to make a choice, and we've spent a lot of time figuring out which area norm is the right one. So I just have to correct: that's not how no one should know what place they're going to have. It'll be up to the business to find out if they want fixed places or not. It's built up into a concept that gives flexibility. I'm sure that's good flexibility. It's a larger land standard than the very many private and very many departments abroad have, but it's less than what many people have today. We need to find good solutions, but we need to know just how much we're going to build and how much it's going to cost. So for every square meter we increase by, we increase the cost by 300 to 400 million. kr in investments on a giant project. We're going to build in the rest of the country also through this period.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e1863	I have noticed the summary of the message and in so far the detailed content when it comes to leaving the climate footprint etc. I hope the Council of State has seen that the Committee has unanimously submitted comments referring to the previous decision on that subject. What is really the main question here is that when employee organisations in the government quarter have provided highly critical consultation opinions both on the process and on the decision, how does the Council of State feel that coverage is available to say that the employees and employees' representatives have participated in the process? Does the Council of State see that there may be discussions about participation, participation, under the Main Agreement, entered into by the employees with the government as an employer?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e1870	I am well aware of the employees' views on the matter, and we are because we have worked closely on them. There have been many meetings. It's been dialogue. It's been working on these questions for years, but we haven't agreed, and there's something else. The fact that you don't agree is something other than not having influence and involvement. I can see they've had that. I'm sure this is going to be a good result, but we have to make a decision. It has to be taken. We've fallen down on what we think is the right thing to do to provide a good working environment. I was in Bergen, I'm so stunned and still, since it's where I live. But I met Bergen Municipality last week, and there the City Council for Urban Development, which otherwise comes from the Workers' Party, told me that they had recently moved the Town Council Department into new premises, based on 23 m 2, and there were very good working conditions. This goes into the range of many other experiences we've done, but as I said, this isn't a phase with one line below. We have to make a decision, and that's what we've done.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e1880	As far as the working environment is concerned, many studies have been carried out on the evidence of significant loss of efficiency, increased sick leave and poor cooperation. So I think the Council of State is taking it very easy. If you add these terms, they're added, and then it's not that much to do with it. What is important is that the process is able to use this project to help achieve the climate goals that Norway has. We should have halved the emissions by 2030. Then the government quarter is a large and important project that is itself important because it is so large, and also because it can be used to develop both the construction process and the construction process in such a way that emissions are greatly reduced. Therefore, the majority have asked for these emission targets to be submitted to the Stortinget, so that it is possible to adjust the rate if the government is not ambitious enough. Will the Council of State do that?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e1887	Just to be clear: I don't take the job concept easily. I am very concerned that we should have good working conditions and good working conditions, and therefore there has been a lot of work on this. But it's not a simple decision, but a decision has to be made, and we've made it. Nor is it what the representative said in his introduction earlier today, that the Labour Inspectorate believes this concept is wrong. The Labour Inspectorate has not considered this concept at all. There is a representative of the Labour Inspectorate who has made his own statement, but there is something quite different. I can promise that we have been in contact with the supervision of this. In terms of climate targets, we have ambitious targets. Of course, we're going to keep Stortinget orientated in the way that Stortinget wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e1897	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e1902	I don't know. 15.25 Friday 22. July 2011 exploded a bomb in the government quarter. Eight people were killed instantly, and ten were hospitalized with life-threatening or serious injuries. In addition, many suffered injuries of a less serious nature as well as mental distress and stress of different kinds. The explosion caused massive destruction. The government quarter and the streets around it appeared like a war zone. The Gjørv Commission compared the attack on the political apparatus with the German attack on Norway on 9 April 1940. The fact that the Højblock was standing after the terrorist attack on 22 July 2011 has given the building an enhanced symbolic value. It is both a reminder of a national trauma and a symbol of positive common values. We can say that it represents a very important cultural memory. That's why I'm glad that it's a unanimous big deal that today is part of the significance of this cultural memory, and I'm in favour of keeping as much of it as possible for the future. It is also important for me to thank for the cooperation I have had with my colleagues in the committee that we can agree on this proposal, across the dividing lines between the parties. An important part of this cultural memory is related to the authenticity, that we can see where the bomb was triggered, that we can see the buildings that were hit, that there are traces of the event. Last year the municipal committee was given the opportunity to visit the newly excavated cellar where the heavy water action was carried out. There, said the guide, is the hole where the saboteurs came in. Here, at this staircase, the engineer stood during the explosion. I think those who were there share my opinion that it gave a completely different experience and an entirely different impression than if we had walked in a museum, seen pictures and models. It is quite in line with the reason the last saboteur had, when he insisted that the remains should be dug out after that cellar. This is also the opinion of the Family Support Group when it argues that cultural memories must be preserved after 22 July. The AUF, in its reconstruction of the island of Utja, has given priority to preserving authenticity by maintaining key places in the building mass on the island. In addition to the significance of these memories for Norway's history, they also have an impact on the fight against strong, extreme right-wing forces and their conspiracy theories. Just as some claim that the holocaust did not take place, some claim that the bomb in Oslo did not take place. Of course, the balance we're going to make against security must ensure both the functioning of the government quarter and the people who work there, but we also have to take care of this important part of Norway's history. The question we have to ask ourselves is: when one has cleared that wall on the wall with Downing Street 10 in London, we also have to be able to do it in Oslo – and what will Oslo and Norway be without trace of July 22 in the capital?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e1915	The discussion on security is crucial in the discussion on the new government quarter. We have to combine it to have an open and accessible government quarter for our entire city with the security of our employees and of Oslo. But the debate on security is about more than barriers and physical obstacles. It's also about how we fight hate, conspiracy theories and extremism. Also, that consideration has to come in when we discuss the new government quarter, for the very background for the discussion we have today, was the hatred that killed on July 22. We're already seeing how the story can be rewritten. Two years ago, Stockholm was struck by terror. Five people were killed. At that time, questions were asked whether the same could happen in Norway. Everything then had been forgotten that the Oslo Centre was blown up, and that it was the beginning of what became the greatest terrorist attack in northern Europe in modern times. For July 22, there was no natural disaster, there was nothing just happening, there was political terror against the Workers' Party and our democracy. There were 77 people who were killed because they were young people in summer camp, or because they were working for us all, in bureaucracy. We can never allow history to be rewritten. That's why the story has to be told over and over again, and there's no better place to tell the story than where it actually happened. That's why the work done, both on the 22nd of July here in Oslo and on Ut Island, is so incredibly nice and so important. On Utja, plans were changed and parts of the old café building were taken care of. You can go in there and see the bullet holes in the walls. You can see the piano that so many young people were killed by. You can go to the bathroom, where there were so many who managed to save their lives by hiding. You can see the same thing in the middle of town. Here you can stand right where the bomb exploded. You can see the physical damage in the old buildings. That's why moving the 22nd of July isn't going to be the same. It must therefore be a crucial part of the new government quarter. I am very pleased that the Stortinge today so clearly says – probably unanimously when we are going to vote tonight – that we believe it should be there today, and that therefore we have listened to the recordings that have come from the support group and the AUF. Taking care of the 22nd of July is remembering the dead. That's telling the story of what happened on that Friday eight years ago. And most importantly, it's one of our most important means of combating extremism for the future. In this way, a country makes it safer — by preventing something similar from happening again.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e1930	Thank you for your comments, especially about the 22nd of July and the importance it has. I hope we can remember that. I'd like to say several things about the government quarter. Others have mentioned it earlier, but it is about the employee's work premises. We have had a hearing on this, and there were, among other things, Norwegian civil servants, who said very clearly that you have to do everything you can to facilitate a good working environment in these rooms. The Norwegian Civil Service Team said in the hearing that: «the breakdown message was rushed through the departments in a way that did not open up to thorough treatment or employee involvement». So this is a little bit in conflict with what I hear from the Council of State saying that there have been many meetings and good participation. In the hearing, there were employee representatives and had a completely different opinion about this. I hope that the Council of State will note and take over, because neither of us – neither in the Grand Duchy, the government, nor the employees' and the employees' organisations – have earned two so far different entrances to the description of reality of it. I hope the Council of State will take the time again to sit down and have a thorough review of this with the employees' representatives. It would be wise to spend time on it, because it can save us too much anxiety and debate about this in the time to come, because we know that this is going to happen for many, many years. So I think it would be very reasonable to clear up such different realities. In the vote there are a number of proposals and comments on environmental considerations, choice of materials and energy use. Among other things, we point to the Oslo model with these serious requirements, which we believe should be taken into account when submitting tenders. This Oslo model deals with the demand for permanent staff, pay between contracts for hired personnel, authorisation for an extended tax certificate, prohibition of cash payments, i.e. a number of provisions and arrangements to ensure a serious working life when the government quarter is to be built. So it would make sense to use the Oslo model, and it would also make sense to make sure that we get real technology development and Norwegian jobs when this is going to happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e1954	First, I would like to say that SV joins all the posts that the Workers' Party has held in relation to the 22nd of July centre. In addition, SV has a proposal to maintain the Y block according to the model proposed by the municipality of Oslo. The reason I took the floor was the Council of State's response to the concept of work, because it is quite obvious that the Labour Inspectorate has not been involved in this. It's quite alarming, even if the Council of State shakes its head. But research compiled by researchers at the Swedish Labour Inspectorate, the Swedish Institute for Public Health, the University of Oslo and the National Institute for Safety and Health at Work thus shows negative health consequences of open landscapes, that they can be large, and that lower costs of smaller buildings can be lost by lower productivity, higher sick leave and the need for new investments over time – because it does not work. Then you have to go to other buildings, and then those buildings also have to have safety that meets the requirements that are. That's why SV says it should have been done right away. So that's where I mean the council answers badly. So it's not just about being heard, it's also about employee involvement, and it's always been a good idea when we've done it in Norway. Having a high level of sick leave and a high turnover is very expensive. I've been through part of the research on which this is based, and it's based on people almost not going to be at work; they're going to sit in a café and work. And then there's no longer much need to gather everyone in some building, if that's how you thought it would happen. I hope not. Then to the last question, where I challenged the Council of State to come back to Stortingen with emission targets for the construction and operating and demolition phase, before the project has come to the point where it is too late. Then the council says that it will be done when Stortinget asks for it. But the proposal that's on the table here to do that comes from the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the SV. Is it the case that the Council of State and the Government will do so on their own initiative, or does the Government have to have a majority decision in the Grand Duchy to come back so that it is possible to adjust the rate? We need to have a modern enough concept that allows us to use this new, difficult project to achieve the climate goals we have, and to put in place the good development opportunities that are associated with this in business. Because we've seen that where you set these requirements, you get it, and then you have a forward-looking diet, and then you've saved the climate as well. There are good solutions, and I really hope the government adds up to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e1967	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e1983	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e1992	Let me first thank the Committee for a good cooperation. It is representatives of the Centre Party who have promoted a proposal for a representative to increase the use of wood as construction material. In this setting, a number of proposals have been made such as: requires economic incentives for the use of wood or other low-carbon construction materials. I believe that the individual parties and the proposers will justify their proposals on their own. I would like to welcome the Central Party in its desire to build a strong wood industry in Norway. As late as March this year, the government promoted its own strategy to increase research, development and innovation activities in the forest and wood industries. They also promoted a strategy to stimulate demand for green and wood-based products. The strategy contains a number of measures that will contribute to the use of wood as building material, just as the representatives of the Central Party are asking for, but we have other measures. These include: on standardisation, industrialisation and division of competences. That strategy has not been mentioned by the Central Party in its proposal for a representative, although the proposal was promoted only a few months after the strategy was presented. I am pleased that in recent years several builders have seen that wood can be a good building material in large construction projects as well. There are several large buildings in the big cities and several bridges built of wood. All of this has been put in place without the need for state subsidies, as called for by the Central Party. A system of subsidies for the use of wood will not contribute to the creation of a competitive business in the face of international competition. On the contrary, it will work against its purpose. If we are to ensure that three are profitable on a large scale, we should use other instruments. It will also be followed up by the government in the context of the strategy. There is no doubt that the construction industry needs to take a large part of the responsibility for reducing greenhouse gas emissions. The use of more climate-friendly materials will help reduce emissions. It applies to wood, but also to other low-emission materials. For the Right-Part, it is not appropriate to control the details of the materials to be used. Rather, we need to stimulate more people to use materials with low climate footprints, and I look forward to the government coming back to Stortinget with how it can be followed up. I am also pleased that the public is at the forefront. The letter from the Council of State to the Committee made it clear that State Building has been entrusted with cooperating with the supplier industry to deploy more low-carbon materials in state projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2007	This is a good proposal for a representative, which contains good intentions and which the Labour Party initially supports. We also mentioned the increased use of wood as construction material on previous occasions here in Stortinget. The construction sector accounts for 40 pst. of material consumption in Norway, and the public stands for more than 40 pst. of purchases in a market of more than 1000 billion. kr, and it is also such that Aplan Viak claims that ‘wood construction can halve greenhouse gas emissions from materials use without increased costs’. So the Norwegian forest is important, and it can deliver a significant part of the contribution to reducing greenhouse gas emissions. I believe that we are gradually agreeing that the Norwegian forest industry is a more important and important part of Norwegian business, and that the Norwegian forest has a large potential for development and can contribute positively in many ways. Therefore, we should increase the use of wood as construction material. But it's not that you can always sit and watch the market. Sometimes we have to give the market a little puff in the right direction. That's why we have a proposal within the scope of expanding the possibilities, asking the government to come back to the Stortinget by the end of 2019 with proposals for economic incentives for the use of climate-friendly materials, such as wood, in larger construction projects. There is a slightly wider possibility, because there is a lot of research and development on climate-friendly materials, which are not necessarily just three alone. That is why I had almost hoped that the government parties could agree to that proposal, which is proposal No. 1 in the settings. And I'm probably a little surprised that the government parties have somehow refused to go in and discuss and participate in that proposal, because it has a slightly wider front than just three, and I think it would make sense to get an investigation of it. I'm dealing with what the Workers' Party proposal is behind with SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2020	Then the representative Stein Erik Lauvås has taken up what the Workers' Party proposal is behind with SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2025	Norway is in many contexts on the green branch. This is also the case in this context, because we have many positive experiences in stimulating changes in the climate-friendly direction. Now a proposal from the Central Party on the use of wood in construction is being raised. It will benefit the climate and Norwegian value creation, and not least it will contribute to a shift from a fossil-powered industry to a bio-powered industry. Norway needs that. The use of wood in supporting structures could be a good climate response at all stages of a construction process. Lower energy use during the construction period, cleaner work environment, and not least less dust, less waste and faster construction of buildings are some of the benefits of building in wood. In the process of transforming into a green, renewable and sustainable society, forests in Norway will play a key role. The big deal had a major debate on yesterday’s topic and, despite the warnings, chose to sign an agreement with the EU. The centre party voted against, precisely because the role of the forest was so unclear. Nevertheless, we know the significance of this. Increased use and better use of our forest resources will be crucial for Norwegian climate policy. Forestry therefore needs good framework conditions. The centre lot will continue to expand and improve infrastructure. We believe that it should include transport projects on both road and rail, and to the extent at sea, and we also want to continue efforts to remove bottlenecks on the transport network. We have proposed the creation of a state-owned green investment company to secure investments in companies that take a leading role in the development of new technologies and not least new green carbon-based solutions. The forest must be prioritised in several ways. The state and the public must use wood in their own constructions, e.g.: in large transport projects and public buildings. In addition, private incentives for increased use of wood should be encouraged. There are opportunities to create economic incentives that are also a zero-sum game for the state and that do not lead to major expenses. That's exactly what we want the government to make an assessment of. I would also like to refer to the representative proposal from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the SV and the Christian People's Party which we discussed last year, that three should be an important building material in the new government quarter, which was unanimously endorsed in the Stortinget. The situation today is that solutions based on the use of wood in larger construction projects are partially little known and present an increased risk to builders and contractors compared to traditional construction methods. It is therefore necessary to praise many of the county councils, who, despite the discussion we had earlier today, have chosen to take such risks and build more buildings, for example. school buildings, of solid wood or other wood-based materials. That should be commended. On that basis, I would like to address the proposals of which the Central Party is part.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2044	The representative Willfred Nordlund has taken up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2049	Norway needs to create hundreds of thousands of jobs to replace those currently in the oil industry if we are to be able to cut 60 pst. of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030. These new jobs must be climate-friendly, they must provide job opportunities for people, and we must make money on them. Many of these jobs can be based on wood to a much greater extent than we do today. I've been to a lot of business meetings about this, because Hedmark and Oppland are the big states in this area. There is no such thing as business is particularly pleased with the strategy put forward by the government. Yeah, there's a lot of nice words there, but there's no tools. The tools must be in place, because if we continue as we do now, these jobs will not come to us, then the wood we run out of our country will create jobs abroad. Then the value creation comes there, and we'll be left as a commodity supplier – if we're lucky. Now we've been at risk for many years for the oil industry, which has now created a lot of values, but major climate problems. Now we have to turn the effort on public funds so that the tax system twists from favoring property, petroleum and finance to favoring new green industry based on wood and sustainable forestry. You need a green new deal. That's what can give jobs and something we can live on in the future. Therefore, stronger instruments are needed than those of the government. Other building materials can also be used – of course – and if we press it well, they will eventually evolve in a climate-friendly direction. Therefore, SV has a proposal in this setting where we say that the government has to make demands for a reduction in the climate impact of building materials in future construction regulations. Because if we are to achieve the climate objectives, we must not only have objectives, we must also have instruments, positive instruments such as better grant schemes, risk relief for industry, for example, but we must also be clearer about prohibitions and injunctions on what we can allow for emissions related to materials and, among other things, to. construction projects. It turns out that when you do this, you set the time horizon right, so that the industries have the opportunity to adapt, these changes happen. But the industry is now asking for stronger instruments to do so, and that should be agreed by the Stortinget and the government. Then I would like to address the proposal that SV has in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2064	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2069	Although the direct greenhouse gas emissions from Norwegian construction are small, the construction sector, through purchases, has an impact on emissions in other sectors, such as industry, transport, energy and waste. To meet the green shift, we need to use more environmental and climate-friendly building materials. Three is such a material. Norway has a long tradition of using wood when building. It is a material with many good properties, and wood is increasingly used in new ways and in larger buildings and structures. The government announced on the Granavolden platform that we would stimulate the increased use of wood as construction material. Earlier this year, the government published a strategy for increasing research, development and innovation activities in the forest and wood industries. The strategy shall also stimulate demand for wood-based products. Trees as building materials can be climate friendly, but there are also other materials that can have good climate characteristics. The government will look at barriers to increased use of low-emission materials and investigate measures that may promote their use. Three will also be included, together with other materials. However, there are a number of factors, in addition to greenhouse gas emissions, to be addressed in the selection of building materials. Other environmental impacts, design and fire safety, indoor climate, durability, cost, etc. must be assessed. I have assigned State Buildings to cooperate with the supplier industry on the development of products and uses for wood and other low-carbon materials in state construction projects. There is not one building material that is right in any context. We should be careful to introduce instruments that promote one concrete material at the expense of others, especially if it can make us choose less environmentally friendly solutions. Environmental analysis, life-cycle assessment and greenhouse gas calculations for construction products include complex issues and many variables. This should be done for each construction project and must be assessed on the basis of assumptions underlying the specific project. So we need to be careful about leading which building materials are to be used in each project, but rather facilitate innovation and more climate-friendly solutions where three, like all other materials, are used where it is most beneficial.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2090	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2096	Proposal No. 1: ‘The government asks the Government to return to the Stortinget by the end of 2019 with proposals for economic incentives for the use of climate-friendly materials that are available in major construction projects.’ I record that the government itself in the pulpit says that there are other climate-friendly materials than three. There is something this proposal is trying to address, and then I want to ask the Council of State: what is the state council's heaviest argument that you can't go in and support such a proposal, which would give the government and the council the opportunity to investigate material choices?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2103	After many years as Minister of Industry, I know that the tools in this country are many. We spend billions of dollars on producing good and sensible solutions in business, through research and innovation, through Innovation Norway, Siva and a variety of instruments. I do not think it is new economic instruments that come to the state budget to solve this. I think this is a construction industry that thinks very innovative, that is going to be an important part of the green shift, and that wants to be it. I have sometimes compared taking new climate-friendly solutions to combating child labour and corruption. It's not long since it was a little bit allowed. Now it's completely unacceptable, and it's just part of it to run a reasonable store. That's the way it's going to be with new climate-friendly solutions, too. You're going to think that this makes sense, because this is a good store for us. So I think we're getting good solutions by working with business, and for my part, I'm responsible for state building, and they're encouraged to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2108	I will commend the government for at least launching a strategy, even though many of the measures are lacking. It also bears the State Council's response letter to the Committee when the government chooses to say that it is too early to address further measures. They say that, among other things. due to insufficient evidence of properties and environmental benefits, including: in the case of wood-based products. What's wrong with choosing to support just such a proposal, which would give the government the opportunity to launch a larger project to actually document the things that need to be in place, for example. to reduce the risk of major development projects using more wood? It would have been useful if the government decided to go into it. But I'm recording that the Council of State is not interested, or have I misunderstood?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2115	It's actually quite a number of years since I joined in presenting a strategy for the bioeconomy, where there were just economic incentives. So there are framework conditions in this area. But I just have to remind you that we're going into a time of much tighter action spaces. We must give priority to toughers. There is no answer to new financial support schemes. Cooperation with industry, innovation and research is the answer, and that is what we have put forward a strategy for now.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2122	Strategies are fine, but we need action plans, action and removal of obstacles, because there are real obstacles to increasing the use of wood. The government often argues with nutritional neutrality, but this poses a risk of tying its legs under other targets that the government platform is currently sketching, such as increased use of wood. There are also a number of instruments other than economic ones. How does the Council of State see that nutritional neutrality can hinder increased use of wood? How, if necessary, can the Council of States help us to remove obstacles that will enable us to implement this good climate tool?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2129	I think I have to allow myself to say that the representative is fundamentally wrong. The government never argues with business neutrality - never has. The last time that term was used, I think it was in 2001, and it was in a document that came from a red-green government led by Stoltenberg. On the contrary, this government has put forward many strategies in different economic areas — maritime, wood-based, bio-economy, oceans and in a number of areas — with an industrial message and a tourism message. You go in and support industries that you think have growth potential. The government has. This is no longer my responsibility, but therefore I also know that the word ‘nutritional neutrality’ has never stood in the way of this and has never been used by this government. But we have to promote solutions that we believe will produce results. There are enough of those who want to run symbol policies, who just spend money to do so, into new support schemes and new instruments, and who believe that the more thematically defined an instrument is, the more active it is. I don't think so. I think we have good framework conditions, so it's about getting research and innovation together with the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2136	I find it difficult to listen to the Council of State's argument, where it sounds like aiming to develop what is renewable and climate-friendly, is to throw money into the cabin and the weather and here and there. There are unpriority tax havens that are. What we're asking is that we get to the bet that the three industry is asking for, in order to develop these jobs in Norway, so that we can make the money here, and so that the workplaces can be here. It is sustainable in the future. But if the government and the Council of State say that now there is going to be tighter and fewer instruments, the government must at least be interested in using the market and prohibitions and injunctions. Therefore, SV proposes that the requirements for reducing the climate impact of construction materials should be laid down in future construction regulations. What's the problem with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2141	The problem is that the representative obviously cannot have followed. There have never been more instruments than under this government. There has never been more in contributions to new, climate-friendly solutions than during this government. Never! We've also increased them by billions of dollars. We've done that because we recognize the need for the green shift, and because we got an oil price drop. We had to meet it to contribute to activity, and we have. We have an environmental technology system, we have Enova, which has a historic opportunity to contribute to green solutions. So this we're for. I have not said that it will be smaller, but I have not said that it will be more of that either. That's what this question is about.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2146	The government has a record in oil money usage, so it was supposed to be missing that none of the money came to the right place. But now we are facing major climate challenges. We need to bring emissions down, and we have the opportunity to combine this with job creation in Norway, linked to the emergence of new products that can address climate change. That's the challenge we're facing. The government keeps saying that we're going to do everything just like before. But then there won't be a solution to climate change, and the industry in Hedmark and Oppland, which are the biggest wooden industry clusters we have, says that it doesn't work, it's not enough, because we don't get the risk relief that needs to be, and as the state and the government have been willing to provide the oil industry for many years. What is the reason why the government does not see that it has to invest in creating jobs, reducing greenhouse gas emissions and making money?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2153	This debate is probably very far from my constitutional responsibility. But now let me be very clear: we're not doing anything like before. On the contrary. One of the last things the red-green government did was symbolic enough to set aside a new 500 million. SEK for forestry investments in Investinor. There was no investment of one penny. What we have done is to facilitate an instrument use – through the Research Council, through the Investinor, with a modified mandate, through Innovation Norway, through the SIVA – so that we have never put more emphasis on green and environmentally friendly solutions than we do today. So there is no lack of instruments. It's just that we have a business that's in full transition. And if there's someone I'm impressed with, it's just a business that, in a very short time, has shown how they can switch from an oil-based business to other parts of business, creating jobs and creating values. But then we have to provide good framework conditions. These include: on competitive tax conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2160	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2167	The use of wood is important for value creation and climate accounting. By prioritizing people, innovation, sustainability and profitability, three can grow as building materials. In several of the UN’s sustainability targets, three are an important resource. Historically, Norway has taken the lead in innovation – with Lillehammer Olympiapark and OL in 1994, with Gardermoen, which was opened in 1998, with student housing in three at Ås, which was opened in 2013, and with Campus Evenstad at the College of the Inland, which opened its last new building in 2017. This year, the Mjøstårnet opened. Future projects may include wood in Mjøsbru, Mjøssykhus and not least government quarter. It was only in 1998 that the use of wood was allowed in buildings with more than three floors. Many trees have been cut down since then. The three-letter averager of 80 years to stand in a building or in a bridge for up to 100 years is a good climate account. Impregnated pine and other materials give a completely different experience of barley – with better light, sound and air. Unfortunately, the competence is too low and the risk of wood being used as much as it can and should be. The use of wood provides more short-term resources and local labour. By building with three in the government quarter, we improve technology, skills and the economy in the industry. At the same time, such projects must be signature projects which cannot set the standard for other projects. We have to be able to think of both specialisation and large-scale development for construction. The construction sector is among Norway’s largest industries. That construction materials may come from Norway offers potential. Raw materials and industry must be linked to market needs and political leadership. Research and education related to the use of wood must be prioritised. R & D efforts in industry need to be reflected by Innovation Norway and other food products. Master's degrees, Bachelor's degrees, Bachelor's degrees, Bachelor's degrees and Master's degrees – the whole line of work must be included. As a warning, other countries are struggling with foreign companies coming in, cutting and selling the forest without replanting. We must recognise our tradition of ownership and organisation, which assists in planting and processing to individual foresters and foresters. Our forest environments are important. State councils should spend time on the market and Norwegian companies to engage in dialogue on requirements, opportunities and implementation to meet the need for global and green competitiveness — using wood.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2179	We need better documentation and regulated requirements on characteristics and environmental benefits of wood-based products that are crucial for the economy, for the climate footprint and for the life cycle. We need financial incentives to get this done. How the calls are is crucial for who can offer what. We don't have to think one or two – we have to think three.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2182	Much has been said, and very well has been said by my red-green colleagues here in the hall. I want to commend those who have chosen to put this matter on the agenda. There is a need not just for parties; there is a need for political will; there is a need for public action. I almost have to take the word when I come from the forested area of Buskerud, how many of the communities we have, whether it's Drammen, Ringerijk or Hallingdal, are made around the wood industry and the story we have. This is good for the climate and for us to reach the commitments we have. It is important for business policy to create the jobs of the future, which Andersen's representative was also in. This is about showing the political will to just get to the green shift and think new and the opportunities we have. This is also about district policy. Let me use a good example from that county where everything happens, and that's Busherud, of course. Moelven Numedal is the largest private workplace in the whole of Numedal. They sell for hundreds of millions of dollars – many important jobs. At Trekling in Ring Kingdom, one of the largest biogas plants is now under planning. What may be very relevant about the issue we are discussing is massive wood production – today we are importing from Austria instead of both managing and creating the jobs in this country. Then we have something called Splitkon in Modum, which has built up Scandinavia's largest CLT production, and the orders are clear. Here Norway has the opportunity to create many important jobs, but then the public must take the road, precisely by thinking about the climate, thinking about district policy and thinking about the advantages Norway has.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2193	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2209	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2216	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2232	At the request of the Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2241	We now have a representative proposal that the target law should apply to student relations. Law on target use in public services states that book targets and new Norwegian are equivalent target forms and shall be uniform written language in all bodies of the State, county and municipality. Norway is a small language area, and the Norwegian language is under constant pressure. An offensive language policy is therefore necessary. The government has started work on a comprehensive language law and a new big message on language, and on behalf of the committee I would say that we are looking forward to these being presented next spring. It's a valuable diversity to have two Norwegian language cultures. Nynorsk and Bokmål are formally jamstilted, but in fact, new Norwegian has somewhat more difficult terms than book goals. The rules on linguistic equality must therefore be followed up with concrete measures. The Committee therefore supports the intention of the proposal for a representative and considers that the government in the preparation of the forthcoming proposal for a comprehensive language notification should address whether student relations should be covered by the target law. The big question in this case is whether it is natural for student relations to be subject to the target law as it is today. They shall not take decisions or impose orders on behalf of a State, county or municipality and may not be instructed by a department. Is it then natural to equate student relations with public bodies, all the time they are mainly funded by the students themselves? For SV, this matter is quite clear. There are currently only two of the fourteen student relationships that use neo-Norwegian. Student relationships are very visible in the everyday life of the study by running kindergartens, cafes and training centres and renting out student cabins. If student relations were obliged to comply with the target law, they would lead to more novelty in everyday life at the places of study and give students more language rights. For example, student relations would have to respond in a neo-Norwegian way if they were to be contacted in a neo-Norwegian way, that house rental contracts would have to be in both writing languages, and that student relations would have to use at least 25 pst. new Norwegian in signage, on the website and on social media. Student relationships are available for students from all over the country, both neo-Norwegian and book-keeping users. Therefore, it is a problem that most student relations only use book goals. SV therefore believes that student relations must follow the target law and that a change in the law will make it easier to be a young newcomer. On behalf of the Center Party and SV, I address our proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2262	The representative of Mona Fagerås has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2267	Many newcomers switch languages to book goals when they get to minorities. This happens, for example: when coming from a youth school where most people use new Norwegian, to a further school where the students use book goals. Language changes often occur in the transition from being a student in a secondary school to being a student in a new place of study. The reasons for the change of language are many and varied. The center party believes that if the newcomer was more visible in the study places, it would be easier for these students to continue with a newcomer. More and more take on higher education in Norway. I would like to point out that the student relationships exist for students from all over the country, regardless of where the student relationship and the place of study are, both those who use neuron, and those who use books. Therefore, it is a problem that student relationships mostly use book goals. The centre party suggested that the Student Cooperation Act should be amended, so that student relations also follow the goal. Such a law change will make it easier for young people looking for newcomers. There are only two of the fourteen interactions currently in use, and only one of them has a language usage plan. Law on student relations regulates student relationships, and they are not subject to target laws, cf. Section 11. Student relations are so-called special-law companies. The wine monopoly and the regional health professionals are examples of special-law companies that are subject to target laws, and I cannot understand why student relations should not be. Public educational institutions, to which student partnerships are linked, are considered as national governmental bodies and subject to target laws. There are obviously interactions and students falling between chairs, as they are a large part of the students' everyday lives. The majority of the committee points to the importance of facilitating neo-Norwegian, but does not want to impose this on student relations by law. This is bad and weak language policy. The central party wants the government to propose to amend Section 11 of the Student Co-operation Act, so that communications are subject to target laws, or otherwise ensure that student co-operation is an obligation to use both novel and book goals. We're not getting any plurals for this today. The holistic language message coming in 2020 raised high expectations. The centre party looks forward to a discussion on the specific legal regulation of the education sector and whether it fits in with superior legislation. The fact that special-law companies have to comply with the target law is policy. Here the central part's ambition level is higher.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2282	There was a lead by Knutsdatter Strand. Student relations have a very important role to play in caring for the well-being of students at individual universities. Interactions are not government bodies, but students at Norwegian universities and state colleges are daily in contact with student relations in connection with the student housing they rent, in the canteen in which they eat, in the dormitory of their child, in the healthcare service where they receive medical assistance, when they pursue sports on campus, when they receive career guidance, etc. Student relationships cover a large part of the student life, and the contact areas for communication are many. The Labour Party supports the intentions of the draft representative and considers that the government in the preparation of the forthcoming proposal for a comprehensive language law should consider whether student relations should be subject to the requirements of the target law. The Labour Party is looking forward to receiving a comprehensive language law because it will be important to achieve the objectives of language policy. We see the need for offensive language policy. Norwegian language is under constant pressure. I have e.g. repeatedly called for the strengthening and further development of Norwegian as a subject language, which is increasingly replaced by English, both in publication and in education. We also need to make political arrangements to maintain the balance between new Norwegian and bookkeeping. Although the target law establishes that these are equivalent target forms and equivalent writing languages in all the organs of the state, county and municipality, neo-Norwegian have slowly lost past terrain and are weaker than book targets. This suggests concrete measures to achieve real equality. We in the Workers' Party have high expectations that, after several years of waiting, Stortinget will be presented with the government's work on a comprehensive language law and a big message on language next spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2299	Bokmål and Nynorsk are equivalent target forms. At least they have to be. It is important for the Left, and it is actually enshrined in the target law. It means, in practical terms, that they are to be equivalent written languages in all the institutions of the State, county and municipality, and in the case of private legal entities which take decisions or take decisions on their behalf. Student relations are not such a body and do not take decisions on behalf of the State, county or municipality. This does not mean, however, that they should not use both target forms. The student mass uses both parts. At the same time, it is a fact that many new entrants switch to book targets in the transition to different levels of education. Figures from the University of Bergen indicate that the drop-out rate is particularly high at the time of transition to the university. This trend is a challenge all the time for bookkeeping and new Norwegian to be assimilated. There is a clear need for a more offensive language policy, and we must have it. The government’s forthcoming comprehensive language notification should investigate whether student relations and other actors are to be covered by the target law or one. Maybe the law of snow today. The left considers the Norwegian language diversity to be valuable and an important cultural carrier. It is a public task to facilitate the survival and development of both the page-by-page writing languages. At the same time, a language only lives as long as someone uses it. The language message can provide a good framework for new Norway, but the survival of the language is not limited to the target law. Newcomers, just like book users, need to be able to find their writing language in everyday life — in the media, in the studies, in the job and in the literature they read. I would strongly encourage the student relations and others who are in contact with people who are using both target forms to communicate in both book goals and neo-Norwegian even if it is not required by law. Nynorsk is a living goal form today. We're a lot of people who use neuron, but some of us are still struggling to keep up the language as we get older or start studying. This suggests that it's easier to choose one of the dimensions, the book measure, than the other. I've experienced that myself. In other words, languages are not equal today. That should be taken seriously by the message of language. The left has always been on in the fight for language in general and new Norwegian in particular. The left will not vote in favour of the proposal that has been promoted today, but we look forward to the government delivering on actions in the coming language message to ensure that both bookkeeping and neural are living target forms that are used daily.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2314	There is a valuable diversity in having two Norwegian font cultures. At the same time, it is important to recognise that there is a link between Norwegian language history and the two Norwegian writing languages that we have to take care of today. The Christian People's Party therefore supports the intention of the proposal and refers to the Granavolden platform and that a proposal should be made for a new, comprehensive language law that will further the principles of today's legislation relating to equalised forms of objectives, sign languages and minority languages. The Minister for Culture has announced that both a new, comprehensive language law and a big message on languages are planned to be submitted to the Stortinget in spring 2020. Work on this has begun, and this is a work we in the Christian People's Party have expectations of. We also believe that it is natural for student relations to be included in the assessment of this work. A goal form cannot be kept alive by law alone. Information is also required from users and from those producing different forms of Norwegian text. Therefore, I am pleased to hear that two student relations have already chosen to use something new in their business. The language is involved in determining how we experience the world around us. Yes, languages reveal the power of society, and languages are not least about social identity. Despite the fact that the word identity was never used by Ivar Aasen, there may be good reasons to claim that he often wrote about identity. In Norwegian grammar from 1864 he writes about how the suppression of an inherited tongue must be harmful, and he pointed out that it was not just about learning a foreign language: not only should you look at the new as a people must learn, but also at the old that it is not allowed to use. Ivar Aasen's wisdom also stands today. Two equalised target forms are important for maintaining a living language culture based on a traditional Norwegian language history. Two living target forms and dialectic knowledge are also important for identity and social belonging among us humans. This is what we expect to be taken care of in the forthcoming communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2327	Bokmål and Nynorsk are similar in the target law to written target forms. This equality is in itself a good — and valuable for Norway as a language area. It is important that people receive answers to their own objectives when they address the public sector. It is also valuable that students, recruited from all over the country, can be met by student relationships that in practice equate the two types of goals. It brings together linguistic diversity. The Objectives Act § 1 states that book targets and new Norwegian are equivalent target forms and must ensure equal written language in all bodies of state, county and municipality. The same applies to private legal entities which take decisions or lay down rules on behalf of such bodies. However, student relations do not take decisions on behalf of the department and fall outside the scope of the target law. It also follows from an explicit exception clause in the Student Co-operation Act. I stress that it will not solve the problem pointed out by the proposers, just to repeal the exemption clause in the Student Cooperation Act. Although it is done, student interactions fall outside the scope of the target law as specified in this law. The government has started work on a comprehensive language law such as: shall continue the principles set out in today's legislation on gendered target forms and facilitate more real equality between bookkeeping and neo-Norwegian. It is planned that a legislative proposal to this effect will be submitted to the Stortinget in spring 2020. At the same time, the government is planning to provide a message for the Storing of Languages. The work on these two issues is a follow-up to the point of the Granavolden platform to propose to the Stortinget a new, comprehensive language law that continues the principles of today’s legislation on equal opportunities. I see it as natural to assess the target forms of student relations in the context of the overall language policy and a comprehensive language law.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2340	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2345	Although Stortinget was agreed when the law on student relations was last signed, the Centerpartiet has received more input from frustrated students. It would be strange if the Council of States had not received the same input. When the proposal of the Central Party today does not get multiple numbers to improve the daily lives of newcomers, what will the Council of State say to them, the students who have to put their background, history and identity aside when they start higher education?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2351	Language policy is so important to the government that we have mentioned it on the Granavolden platform and raised it as a separate theme. It is the Minister for Culture and Gender Equality who is also responsible for our language policy, and together with her I had a seminar in the autumn on just languages in the university and higher education sectors. As the representative also points out, there are many issues, and there are different dimensions to the challenge in the university and higher education sectors. One thing is the use of book goals and new Norwegian as two target forms. Another, quite large, dimension in this is the use of English in the university and higher education sectors. We're taking this seriously, and we're also following up the universities in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2358	There is no doubt that the use of Norwegian in general, and neo-Norwegian in particular, in the academy has many challenges and great potential to develop Norwegian as an academic language. What we're wondering about is, of course, what expectations we can have of the new language law, which is going to take care of the principles we're applying, and which means that the students find a legal environment to meet their wishes and ambitions for the use of neuron today. What changes can we expect when the new language law comes?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2363	Just what will be included in the language law, the representative will have to ask the Minister for Culture and Gender Equality, but it will also appear when the new language law is presented and the matter will be dealt with in Stortinget. Our universities have an independent responsibility to take care of the Norwegian language and develop it as an academic language. It is a responsibility I as the Council of State are concerned that they take. It's a legal responsibility. It's a responsibility that we have to follow up on that they're conscious of at the universities and colleges, because they're in a cross-breed with many interests and many needs and wants. I'm glad that this has become a topic, and I'm glad that the government is lifting it up as a theme, for Norwegian as a language – both of which means something to whom we are, and the story and identity that we all carry.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2372	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2379	This is a matter that may not have had the great attention of the national vocabulary, but which is nevertheless very important to many. There is a need for co-operation membership, for all students to be members, and it is perceived unfairly for newcomers that newcomers are being excluded from an organisation they meet in everyday life in very many contexts. Student relationships are active – they run training centres, they organise many different types of sports activities and social activities. Many parts of a student life are characterized by interaction. It is then that interaction is not the end of the story, a very unfortunate exception that made the interaction forget and unseemly the newcomers in the study site. Language is identity, and when neuralism is kept away from everyday life, it is understandable that many young people experience it as inferior and thus switch to bookkeeping. We don't want it that way. Thus, through a forced membership, newcomers experience that their language is not used, with the exception of two interactions. I know that, among other things, on Stord have expressed great frustration, because in Sogn and Fjordane use a new Norwegian, which is called the interaction in the west "Saman", while one in Bergen and Stord uses the name "Sammen". Great is otherwise a large new municipality, one of the largest new Norse communities in the country, but it is not expressed through student relations and their language usage. A majority of people in the room today have expressed great expectations for the Council of State to work on a new growth report on a holistic language policy. I hope that the Council of State has listened carefully to those present in the Chamber today, who make up a plurality, who go up to the pulpit and ignore the parties who have overlooked the debate in the Chamber today – and thus come forward with suggestions in line with our proposal. She's going to get a lot of support for what we can promise. Even if we don't get multiple numbers today, I'm optimistic given that we have a council of states with legs in our noses that can get this through in government and make a positive proposal in 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2396	The President would also like to add that Stord is the largest new town in the world. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2414	At the request of the Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that – within the allocated speaking time – up to six rows of replies are given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2423	I would like to begin by thanking the Cooperation Committee. When we deal with the matter today, we can conclude that an overall committee believes that good teacher training is essential to creating a good and inclusive school for all students. So we agree to point out that good and qualified teachers are the key to helping more students leave school with good reading, writing and math skills, and that it is a strength that education has been raised to master level. I would also like to refer to the Council's reply to the Committee, which draws attention to the fact that, to a large extent, the proposals put forward in the proposal for a representative are in progress, or are part of an existing strategy, teacher training by 2025. The government’s introduction of master’s training was not without resistance. Stricter recording requirements and competence requirements were also met with resistance from some teams, including by those behind today's proposal for a representative. It was warned that these arrests would cause the school to lose many potential teachers. Then it is worth noting the record increase in teacher training for both 2018 and the current year. This is a positive trend, which may be related to the fact that in the last five years many measures have been taken that have raised teacher training – measures that have, in total, given increased quality, enhanced content, increased status and improved career opportunities, support schemes and follow-up for teachers and for those who will become teachers. Now, when we see that every 10 applicants want to be taught, while the admission requirements and content of the study have been strengthened, there is a lot of evidence that students, who now also have a better professional starting point, will be able to improve their performance and quality of study and thus also access to more teachers. Through the introduction of master’s training for primary school teachers, the government has contributed to raising the quality, content and status of education. Among other things, the master-educated teachers have a much higher starting salary. The requirements for further education and training, now offered to 34 000 teachers, also contribute to the promotion of strong professional environments in schools. In addition, continuous experience with teacher training is exchanged through teacher training schools and kindergartens, and this further contributes to the development of practice, relevance and professional updating. There are also several career paths and ways of deepening, including: start training and ability to take doctoral degrees as a teacher. This spring's $60 million call. kr to municipalities for better and more guidance of newly-trained teachers is another measure that contributes to a good meeting with the profession as a teacher. There is little doubt that the last years’ efforts on teachers and school contents have raised the teaching profession, teacher training and recruitment. I hope we can all enjoy that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2440	Norwegian school is facing a serious teaching shortage, and it is urgent to take active action. There are too few primary school teachers trained, and there are major challenges in recruiting and retaining new teachers around the country. Both the search for and the implementation of teacher training is too low. The proposals that the Labour Party is promoting here today will improve that situation. We want to improve teacher training by setting up and setting requirements for those who are going to be teachers. Study intensity is increased by having greater expectations, better follow-up of the teachers’ students and giving them more and better practice. The right-wing government is now a little off the chest by introducing master training and raising the recording requirements, but has it done the teacher training well enough? No, the study barometer shows that primary school teachers are at least satisfied. The students explain what is behind that statistics. Teacher students are dissatisfied with practice, want better study organisation, better education and more digital tools in use. On average, students spend five hours less on the week of the studies than the average student. Time spent studying, that is, studying intensity, says something about motivation and learning outcomes. In order to equip students better for the teaching role, higher quality of teaching, more education and more and better practices are important. At the same time, study intensity should be increased through better follow-up, several hours of organised learning activity and more self-employment for the studies. The Workers' Party has previously proposed to follow up the Storting decision on a guidance system for all newly trained teachers by clarifying the responsibilities of municipalities through regulations. That was the end of the government's party. We also believe it is important that teacher training institutions strengthen the digital competence of students and in the professional communities of the school through further training provision. In particular, teachers and trainers have much to say about the quality of teacher training. We want a national framework for practice. The Workers' Party has proposed the student budget of the times. We have proposed a reform of trust for the teachers. Now we are proposing a powerful force for better teacher training, for more teachers to thrive and master and get well equipped for the teaching profession. With this I take up the proposals Worker Party is behind alone and together with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2457	The representative Nina Sandberg has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2462	There is little doubt that good teachers are a prerequisite for a good school. Without good teachers, we can wave goodbye to all value creation and wealth growth. The teacher is also the factor that has the most to say for learning in classrooms. The teacher's lift is a clear and concrete commitment to increased quality in school. The major reform of continuing training and the level of skills of teachers continues. Master's training has been introduced, and further efforts are being made, inter alia: teachers' specialists and business hospitation for vocational teachers. Unfortunately, too many Norwegian students leave school without being able to read, write and calculate properly. Good qualified teachers are the key to turning this around. It is essential that teacher students experience the study as motivating and demanding. This year, the government has asked universities and state colleges to start a mentoring system, which has been in demand for a long time. The Progress Party will further emphasise that the «Teacher Training 2025, National Strategy for Quality and Cooperation in Teacher Education» clearly states: ‘Hospitation is also a more effective system, both of teacher training and of schools and kindergartens.’ The Progress Party also hopes that guidance from newly-trained, newly-trained teachers and the agreement on national guidance frameworks will be closely followed up, so that fresh teachers will avoid a practical shock. In the last five years, many measures have been taken to improve the quality, content, status, career opportunities, support schemes and follow-up of teachers and those who will become teachers. The latest figures for applying for higher education show very strong applicants — every 10 applicants now want to be taught. Developments in recent years have been positive, while the admission requirements and content of the study have been strengthened. The students have a better professional starting point and will be able to do so with a better quality of study. We in the Progress Party are also convinced that the requirements for depression in the teaching subjects Norwegian, math and English, as well as the strong commitment to continuing education – which nearly 34 000 teachers have so far been offered – help to promote quality both in teacher training and in school. An important factor the Progress Party will also highlight is partnership cooperation on high-quality practices, which are part of the Teacher Training Strategy 2025, which states that a national framework for partnership should be developed. I am recording that the Workers' Party believes that there is a need to communicate increased demands on the time spent by the students in the study. For the Progress Party, it is not an independent goal to see how much time students spend mastering the study. The progress party has helped to raise the teacher’s study to the master level, and we have increased the recording requirements. There is now more practice in the studies and demands for practical masterwork. It is the result of the education and the exercise of the teaching profession that is essential here, not how much time each student spends. Therefore, the Progress Party does not support the Workers' Party's proposal to introduce measures to force the students to spend more time on the study. I believe that the government has already delivered or is working on the other proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2486	Teacher training is perhaps the most important education of all, precisely because it ensures the education of teachers, who are once again training all the children and young people of the future, and of course the future politicians, the police, the defenses and the doctors. Teachers are enormously important, and it's not long since we've changed teacher training to be five years old, as one of the biggest changes in recent times. The change was made in 2014, and the start was in 2017. This means that the teachers who started the new education have not yet completed, have not yet gone through the great upheaval provided by the majority in the United Kingdom. The center party was critical, and we believe that when we added five years, we didn't free time for much new and expanded content, but ordered a master's task and all that results. Politically and professionally, we also wanted more practice for the teacher students, because there were feedbacks that it was difficult to start up a job as a newly educated person. Now the feedback is more focused on the need and the need for skills, the challenges of everyone wanting to get more involved in teacher training without going out. As we used to say when I and others went to teacher training: «We must be tired and feel some hardship, too, so that we know how the students can experience the school, and how our teaching can be for some.» The problem now is that we need – more than ever – more teachers to complete their education. At the same time, the teacher’s study has become tougher both to enter and to complete, as it is five years old, and that the reorganization of the loan – the conversion scheme – has made it tougher. This affects teachers' students or people who may want to take PPU as part of their education beyond the age of five. The government’s standard of teaching and separation, as well as the closure of study places and places by institutions, also reinforces teaching shortages. Unfortunately, the fact that municipalities and counties do not have increased financial space in line with increased demands means that the opportunities for better working conditions for teachers are low. The tough idealists who do the teaching job, who are longed for and often go to other industries, don't get the reward they deserve. New research suggests that the media’s production and angle of school has greatly influenced policy-making. I'm asking my coworkers to put their finger in the ground in front of the air. We have to follow the people on the first line, over where it's storming on top. The centre party today takes part in proposals on the role of pedagogics in teacher training, that we want a national framework for practice, and that, in terms of the category placement of teacher training, funding must be provided for a real lifting of teacher training. I am addressing the proposal that has not yet been taken up as the centre party is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2503	The representative Marit Knutsdatter Strand has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2508	The world's best profession deserves the best education in the world. The teacher, like many people, is the most important single factor in caring for and developing a good school. SV is concerned that the number of people who work in teaching positions in primary school without being qualified has increased by 40 pst. under the government of Solberg. We have made a number of proposals in Stortinget to recruit and retain qualified teachers. All these proposals have been defeated. Instead, the government chooses to dwell on a symbolic policy that refuses to allow applicants with high average characters to enter the teacher training because of the unfair four-digit requirement in mathematics. These applicants could have become excellent teachers in other subjects in which the school needs competence. Since this recording requirement was introduced, Norwegian school has missed out on many potential teachers. There is further concern that the number of applicants for teacher training fell to the year of admission. Good basic education is essential for schools to have access to the skills needed to fill the school's broad social mandate and to have enough qualified teachers to teach in all disciplines. Instead of constantly raising the threshold for access to teacher training, efforts must be directed primarily towards good quality of study and high standards of achievement, and the content of the training must be relevant to the responsibilities and tasks of the teacher. Pedagogical students have pointed out in their input the importance of good coherence between theoretical and practical practice, that education should be demanding, but also motivating, that teachers should have a background in the teaching profession, and that practical teachers should have further training in guidance. Furthermore, they point out that there is no correlation between the expectations of teacher training as professional training and the resources allocated to teacher training compared to other professional training courses. It is important to listen to the educational students. It's only been a few years since I was a schoolteacher myself. SV believes that this needs to be followed up quickly by government and institutions. At a time when Norway in general, and my part of the country in particular, desperately needs more teachers, the principal of the Nordic University now wants to drop teacher training at Nesna. If the proposal for a new structure at Nord universitet were to be given a majority, it would be a shot at the bow of the district councils' ability to acquire qualified teachers.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2521	Teachers do one of the most important jobs in society. They make sure our children can make dreams a reality. They give them opportunities. Knowledge and education are key to freeing oneself from their backgrounds and creating a better life. Research suggests that a good teacher is the single factor that has the most to say if the children learn and thrive at school. For us in the left hand side, the math is going to be simple. If we're going to bet on the kids and put the kids first, we have to bet on the school. That's why we're betting on the teachers. In recent years, teacher training has been through reform. The left’s vision of a five-year teacher training was realised in 2017. The aim is to increase the competence of teachers, but also their status. Teachers, who now receive five-year education, receive higher pay. That's important, because it makes the profession more attractive. The left has high ambitions for the Norwegian school. We want the best people to want to work as teachers. That is why we have also strengthened the character requirements of those applying for teacher training. They have to have at least 4 in the simplest maths of all the different maths that you can pick in high school, because mathematics is a basic skill that all students have to learn to master during school. Then the teachers should also do that. We have taken a great deal of action when it comes to teacher training, but I agree with one of the concerns of one of the proposers: there is no reason why the teacher students should be among those who spend the least time in the study. I doubt that these students are later than others. This is where the educational institutions have to get on the road. The left expects future teachers to meet with demanding and good-quality teaching arrangements. We must equip them as best we can for the career that meets them. Many report a practical shock when they go to work. At the same time, it is not Stortinget's job to go into the individual study programme and the arrangements for them, because I am sure that the teacher training itself knows best how to increase the study intensity and the learning outcomes for their students. In today's knowledge society, you can't count on being a student just once. Many of us will need to fill in once or twice in life. The left priority was given to teachers when, in the budget for the budget, we negotiated money into the gold-plated system of competence for quality. High-ranking teachers have received continuing training with us as a cooperation and government party. It's important for the students. Summaries: the left will not vote for what is here today, but I can promise that in the left we will take the teacher training seriously and will make sure that we also get the best teachers in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2536	The teacher is the school's most important resource. The Christian People's Party therefore agrees with the intention behind the proposals we are considering today on how to make teacher training the best possible way to equip teachers for the important job they are going into. Teacher recruitment is not only about effective teacher training, but also about having enough qualified teachers. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the first phase of the teaching norm has been introduced. Phase two, with 15 students per teacher from 1 to 4. steps and 20 pupils per teacher from 5 to 10. Steps shall be introduced at school level from 1 August 2019. This is a great victory for all Norwegian primary school students. We are pleased that figures from the Education Directorate for the 2018/2019 school year show that this school year is fewer pupils per teacher than at any time in the last ten years: 1,045 more year-olds from the 2017/2018 school year to the 2018/2019 school year, a decrease in the number of pupils per teacher from 16.2 in the 2014/2015 school year to 14.8 in the 2018/2019 school year. But even though these are good numbers, more qualified teachers are needed in the future. We need to ensure both the best possible teacher training and a high degree of implementation and that even more people choose to become teachers. There may be good reasons to investigate and implement measures that may increase the study intensity of teacher training, but I think it is even more important to focus on good guidance and follow-up of newly educated teachers, who experience the first year of learning overwhelmingly demanding. That is why it was important for the Christian People's Party to get an impact on new, fresh resources for guidance for new teachers in primary school in the budget for 2019. Good professional guidance, preferably provided by a teacher with supervisor training, creates professional security that can help keep more of the graduates than we see today. There may be good reasons why experience in different models should be established as a rule, but in the start-up phase we are currently in, experience should be gained by testing different models before taking the next step. What does it take to make today's teacher training better? For teacher training as for all other professional training courses, the relationship between theory and practice is important. It is about well-educated and motivated practitioners, but also about expectations of what practices should contain, through a clearly defined partnership work on practice. There is no doubt that there is a need for better consistency between theory and practice. Teacher training must focus on being practice-related, and there should also be a central requirement in master’s training. Experience in the field of practice and the ability to regularly update knowledge of the field of practice should also be an important requirement for those who are to teach in teacher training. The lack of clear links between theory and practice creates distances, while the opposite contributes to motivation and triggers engagement.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2550	There is a powerful force for even better teacher training. Two years ago, the government introduced new primary school teacher training, and the aim is to get more and even better teachers, who can use research and experience-based knowledge in the classroom. The first students are now completing second year of study, as was said, and it is too early to say whether master's education has worked according to the intentions. Universities and colleges now need calmness to create and implement education. Making big changes before we have seen the results of the effort is not a good resource use. The government is working intensively to prevent the notified teaching shortage. That's a total of $29 million. kr for recruitment and qualification measures. In addition, we're proposing $10 million. kr for recruitment to the revised national budget for 2019. The universities of North Norway are now implementing a transitional arrangement to allow those who are working in the field of education who have not completed their education as teachers to complete their education while they are at work. We make high demands for students' efforts. The government is governed by framework plans and letters of assignment, and we will not dictate how education is to be organised. Universities and higher education institutions must make professional choices and develop quality. Expectations are clear, and incentives are provided, but it takes time to get the new education in place. Our teacher training must be practical and the institutions must cooperate with the labour market. In 2017, the Teacher Training Strategy came in 2025, requiring partnerships for high-quality practices. So we're going to get $44 million. kr for this year. This year I have also started working on a major report on the relevance of working life in higher education. Newly trained teachers need a good transition from education to the profession, and together with the parties we have developed principles for good guidance and framework for continuing training for supervisors. School owners may receive grants for the guidance of new graduates in primary school. The measures of the scheme shall be evaluated and there will be no right to enter into discussions on regulatory fastening now. We've started good processes. We promise to continue working so that the teacher training will be the good and effective education that is already in our plans.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2571	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2576	This week, the Stortinget has taken decisions in at least two cases for which it was not really a majority in politics, but for which smaller parties had been put into effect against becoming part of the right-wing government. When the Workers' Party was in government, we introduced the provision of 60 credits in the teaching and learning subjects of the teacher training, but in 2014 the Christian People's Party Right received the blessing of replacing 15 of these credits with KRLE education for all teachers' students. It was not the professional environments that addressed this 15-point struggle of the pedagogical subject; it came because the Christian People's Party wanted more Christianity into teaching. As a result, the relative proportion of hours in pedagogy is too low. Why does the Council of State think it is more important to keep the Christian People's Party in government than to provide students with enough pedagogic and learning skills?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2583	Let me first say that I believe that the students who are now taking the teacher training courses GLU 1-7 and GLU 5-10 are getting a good education, they are getting an education that enables them to practice the teaching profession in a good way. The changes we have made have strengthened education and also strengthened the qualifications of those who take that education. There were major discussions that took place when we made these changes, and it is natural, of course, because there are major changes in teacher training, and teacher training is, as many people have been, one of our most important educations and professions. Different parties had different opinions about what was to be included. We didn't just have that discussion then; we now have that discussion, and that's what the representative is lifting up here, because the teacher training is an education that is all the way relevant, and all the way has to be discussed. Now we have a good teacher training, and now it has to sit down before we get to evaluate it and look at any changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2590	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I assume that the Council of State agrees that newly educated teachers need guidance. It took almost ten years to establish the national framework for a guidance system for newly-trained teachers in kindergarten, primary and secondary education. When this scheme was finally introduced, the Ministry itself pointed out that there was a weakness in the framework that they were only to be understood as recommendations on how to guide the newly educated teachers. Then there was an evaluation that showed great variation. 40 pst. by the newly trained teachers, no guidance is received at all and the quality of the guidance is fluctuating. When government parties today vote down the Workers' Party's proposal to enforce the obligation to provide guidance, shall these differences continue to develop, or does the Government have other measures to ensure that newly trained teachers receive sound guidance?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2597	As I said in my previous answer, I strongly believe that those who take the teacher training receive a good education, which enables them to pursue the profession for which they are trained, when they are finished. At the same time, we know that getting into the teaching profession is perceived as quite a lot too many, and that they benefit greatly from the guidance. What the government has done now is that we have started an evaluation to look at the scope and quality of guidance for graduates. We allocate approx. 60 million. DKK in grants for the guidance of newly-trained teachers in primary school. And through dialogue with the parties – in support of kindergartens and school owners – we have developed principles for good guidance and framework for continuing training for supervisors. There will be, in the autumn of 2020, an online guide on characteristics of a good school, local guidance schemes, so there's a lot going on here.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2604	It's going to be many years before we see the outcome of changing teacher training policies. Nevertheless, political ambitions and desire for change have much higher frequency. Now there's going to be big changes for the school. The two main framework elements will be changed, with new curricula and new training laws. The rate of change in society, for the rest, is going faster and faster at the same time, and the leader of the UHR said that the rate of change will never go so slowly again as it is right now. When the Council of State says that the institutions need peace, I wonder how she thinks they should work to follow up the changes in education towards education and towards their students.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2611	It's a balance, partly a rather difficult balance, when you have an education that's so important to society, and that so many have knowledge and a relationship with, which makes it all the way a political discussion linked to it. Other educations that are important to society and are considered to be complicated and difficult, we do not interfere so much with, while teacher training is subject to continuous scrutiny and interference, also from a political point of view. We have set a framework now, and I believe we need to have confidence that our institutions are able to create this good teacher training. That's where the professionals are, they're the ones who know about this, they're the ones who sit tight, and they're the ones who cooperate with school owners and with kindergarten owners around the whole country. Don't get me wrong, it's good that teacher training is on the political agenda. But the professionals are the ones who can, and they have to keep up with it all the way, and they have to give their students what they need to teach at school.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2616	There is no doubt that the requirements for teachers are increasing, below that for teacher training, and finally for the teacher student. I think trust is a keyword here. Another interesting perspective is the weighting of subjects. There may be different interests and different balances between institutions, linked to different professional environments. The amount of pedagogics mentioned earlier in the vocabulary is one discussion, and the amount of diversity, sexuality, discrimination, digitisation and other tough debates are now seen as important in teacher training. The Education and Research Committee started today with the Children’s Ombudsman, who is responsible for more specialised teaching in teacher training. What does the Council of State think of the different institutions as having different arrangements and professional weights in teacher training, and how can this once again strengthen teachers in their daily activities?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2623	In principle, we have to have some expectations of what you've learned when you're fully educated. But I think we need to have some room for different focus and different devices for teacher training out there, and that's what institutions do to a great extent today. For example, NTNU is very concerned that digitisation and technology are going to be throughout all their educational programmes. That's also the idea that taking medicine at NTNU is a little bit different than taking medicine at UiO, precisely because they have that focus. Obviously, some things must all be able when they leave school, and I have been in dialogue with several actors who are very concerned about the one thing that they think is important – and is important. But we also need to have room for them to choose to solve the challenges a little bit differently. We're going to have good teachers when they're trained after the new primary education. That's what we need.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2628	Today’s performance-based funding system prevents universities and colleges from making long-term plans for their activities, and weak basic funding contributes to increased centralisation and weakens teacher training in the districts. Does the Minister, like the education students, think that basic appropriations need to be increased and that the funding system needs to be changed to take account of the differences in institutional assumptions, compositions and tasks?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2634	I disagree when the representative presents it as if the universities and colleges today do not have a good funding. Our universities have a good funding. They also have good basic funding. If we set the result-based distribution up to the base, they have a very good basic funding. But I'm going to give the representative the right to say that the funding of the different universities and colleges may be slightly different, and it's due to priorities that different sizes have had over many years. To some extent, we've tried to even it out. I myself was concerned about it when I was a big-time representative, and I contributed to the three when the new universities got a lot of new scholarships, which is important for their basic funding. I think we have universities and colleges that are financially able to provide a good teacher training. They can, they will, and they will.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2643	At a time when Norway in general, and my part of the country in particular, desperately needs more teachers, the principal of the Nordic University wants to drop teacher training at Nesna. I don't think she agrees with the Council of State that they're well-funded. If the proposal for a new structure at Nord universitet were to be given a majority, it would be a serious blow to the bow of the district councils' ability to obtain qualified teachers. The world’s best profession had earned the world’s best education, but that training can also take place in the districts. Does the Minister agree with me on this, and is it not worrying that in a situation where a large number of unskilled teachers are planning to lay down an institution that has fed not only Helgeland but a whole part of the country, with qualified teachers — an institution that even cuts very high on the Study Barometer?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2650	As the representative of course knows very well, the Vice-Chancellor has submitted a report and will present one of the next few days with a position, which the board will consider on 26 June. What the representative addresses, which is about teachers in North Norway, is something that the government is concerned about. This is also the background to the fact that we have given extra incentives to the teachers who choose to settle in North Norway after finishing their education — in view of the write-down of the student loan. We have to work to get decentralised teacher training throughout the country, so that we also have a way to qualify those who are in school today to become teachers. That's something we have to work on. There are many who work as teachers who have not taken the education, and there is a potential to let them take the education and then continue in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2657	The cord shift is over. The following speakers also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2664	I think we are witnessing an incredibly passive attitude on the part of the government parties today to getting more out of teacher training. It should be a very clear goal for all those who are concerned with raising the quality of our students, to put an end to the fact that future teachers are among those who spend the least time on their studies. On average, students spend five hours less on the studies in a week than the average student, and they spend 14 hours less than for example. police or medical students. These figures show that the potential for learning, to improve the results for the teachers, is great, and those figures should worry the government much more than it seems they do. Today we have even heard from one of the government parties that they reject the fact that it should be a goal to increase the study intensity of teacher training. Today we get fewer qualified teachers out in school than we could have, who have spent less time on the studies than they should have done. It must be a goal to create greater learning pressure, that we have greater expectations for improvement in the new master's education. The working party wants more practical and pedagogical classroom management into the education; the competence of the students needs when they are going to the classroom. With more time for study, you can give newly educated teachers a better start. But it doesn't happen by itself. It does not help, as the government parties are doing today, to refer to a wide range of measures on a show-off list that is not about the challenge raised by the matter. It does not help to refer to teachers’ norms, teachers’ specialists, career paths or recruitment tools, which are positive measures in isolation, when they have no effect on the content of teacher training. Nor is it the case that this challenge is automatically solved by having master training and increasing the length of the study from four to five years or having stricter recording requirements. The working party is also for teacher training at master level. We are too clear a recording requirement, albeit slightly different from the government. However, these changes do not increase the time-use or yield of teacher training itself. On the contrary, many graduates describe the practice when they get out of school. Nevertheless, the proportion of practice in teacher training is now declining. One year of teacher training is increased, but the number of days in practice is only increased by 10. The pedagogical proportion is reduced compared to teacher training under the red-green government because KRLE now takes up 15 study points out of the 60 study points you have. What you need is not more festivities or good goals, but political will to do something about this challenge in order to get better prepared teachers, better-trained teachers into classrooms. That is why the Workers' Party will send a clear and clear political signal to increase time use. The way it happens, we don't want to rule in detail, but it's a shame with the passive attitude we see today, where the government parties choose to vote down all the proposals in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2675	I take up the thread where the representative Henriksen left off, because when I hear the government parties in the change of words here today, I have to say that it may be forgiven that after a few years of wear, the government parties feel the need to praise themselves, but it had been dressed with a little more modesty. It's e.g. at best a truth with modifications when the majority of governments claim that more than ever they are applying for teacher training. When you look at everyone together, yes — but what is the value of information in a matter that is essentially about the problems of primary school teacher education? The reality is that in 2019, the search went back to primary school teacher steps 1 to 7, primary school teacher steps 5 to 10, and teacher training for steps 8 to 13. The combined increase in the demand for teacher training with which the government is embellishing today is due to the fact that several people applied for pediatric and vocational training respectively. This is good in itself, but the representative proposal they comment on is based on a wish that the decline in primary school teacher education should not get stuck and become a negative trend. On the contrary, we in the Workers' Party want to contribute as proposers to the fact that each type of teacher training has more applicants in the years to come. But then, as a responsible politician, you have to be willing to admit that here you have a problem, instead of flagging with average numbers and pretending that everything is fine. There has been a practice among the government parties – and I would like to say that here today – where they are constantly voting down constructive proposals from the opposition with the reasons: we are doing this well. In this case, as in very many others, we have good evidence that this is actually the case. Let me take two obvious examples from today's debate. For the first pedagogical proportion, which the right-wing government reduced about five years ago and has never corrected again. Another example is the clarification of the obligation to provide guidance to newly-trained teachers — a regulation that they have done nothing but to vote it down. So the fasitator is, no, you're not doing all of this already.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2684	The government has raised the teacher's study to a master's level. There is now more practice in the studies and a requirement for practical master’s work. The Ministry has also provided funds to the sector to identify forms of work that may promote higher study intensity. I would like answers from the Workers' Party on whether they believe that the authorities are going to impose on the study places the number of teaching hours or the curriculum. What concrete thing is the Workers' Party believes the government should do to increase the number of hours students spend on the teacher's study overall, in addition to what we've already done? And they would like to owe the government on this matter, but I note that the Workers' Party is all alone in this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2691	I choose to take the floor one more time in this matter, because as a representative on a visit from another committee in the education debate, I have to say that much of the rhetoric that comes from the Workers' Party is well known in my committee as well. It is said repeatedly that there is a lack of political will, a lack of a passive attitude and that nothing is happening. At the same time, it is criticized from this pulpit that some of the things that actually happen in the sector are pointed out. For me, there's a strange way to argue, because it's relevant to look at what's actually done when it's claimed that nothing happens, and it's relevant to point out that one of the biggest challenges we have in school, is actually to hold the teachers when they're first educated and at work. I am therefore pleased that the Left was given the opportunity to create a national framework for a mentoring system for newly trained teachers in the platform when we went to government last year. Such a guidance system is in place, and I hope that it will mean that more people get a good transition from study to work, and that fewer people apply to other professions. These grips, for example, are interrelated, and, in total, they do, after all, raise the quality of education. Then I acknowledged in my first post – and I agree with the proposers – that there is no reason why the teacher students should be those who spend the least time in the study. But here the study institutions themselves have to take action. I also hear in the posts from the Workers' Party that they do not want to go in and regulate the studies in detail, and then again I think it is a little strange argument to ask the government parties to do exactly that. Then I would like to say at the end that a lot of work has been done in this sector, and I think we should let teacher training get used to the grips and reforms that have already been done – and quite recently. Some things must undoubtedly be adjusted, and so should the Left too, but right now education should be given a little political pause and time to work into the new arrangements, without too much over-control.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2700	The thing that also made me take the floor was that the rhetoric from the Workers' Party is something hollow in this matter. I have to be allowed to point out that in my first post I made a lot of efforts and pointed out the letter of reply that the Council of State has given to the Committee. So a number of measures have been taken, implemented or started. There is no doubt that some of these grips need time to work if you are to see the full effect of them. If one wants to see an indication of direction, it is essentially positive directions we see, both for the teaching profession, for teacher training and considering how the institutions are now taking action to convert to a new master's degree. In Tromsø, where piloting has been on this since 2008, there was no dance on roses in the early years when this study was to be introduced. It has been the case with the vast majority of the big bets that this government has made through the teacher's promise. That's why it's a little strange to get criticism from the Workers' Party, which is standing here and has really not made any concrete proposals, that is. to the extent that they are concrete, they do not demonstrate the will or ability to implement the policy themselves, for example. when proposing to raise the funding category. It's a proposal that costs 1 billion. kr. I have not seen that in any of the alternative state budgets of the Workers' Party. And when it comes to the specific content of the study, you say that you don't want to go in and think too much about it. Then, with respect to reporting, there will be a very strange debate to be held, because no one here disagrees with the need to have an increased intensity in the studies, to have a good practice, and that there should be a good follow-up of the teacher students. I believe that the government has followed up in an exemplary manner. I am aware that we need to adapt the course along the way – we have also said and opened it up – but we need to take these steps and in a responsible and good way, so that we get time out in the sector to lift this master training, so that we get quality at all stages. I believe that the network referred to by the Council of State in its letter of reply, which helps to establish a good alliance between those involved in teacher training, also helps to exchange experience between the institutions, which means that we can get a professional approach – an institutional approach – to how to raise this education and get the best possible quality and student intensity.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2709	First, I would recommend to the representative Gudmundsen that if he is to criticise the Workers' Party for a proposal that has been promoted in the matter, he should check whether the Workers' Party has actually been involved in promoting it. The proposal on cost categories was from the Centre Party and SV, and not from the Workers' Party. Then I hear that the government parties don't like that we use the rhetoric that the government shows little will. But when we use that rhetoric, it's because we actually mean it. As I said, it does not help to refer to actions that have been carried out that do not affect the content or the learning pressure of teacher training. If the goal is to get the best possible school and the best possible quality for our students, we also need to take a critical look at teacher training and time use. If you make a rough estimate, if a teacher student had spent the same amount of time on his studies as a medical student, it would have been almost a full year of study during a five-year master's degree. So if you ask the question whether there's room for improvement, the answer is obviously yes. Is it possible to do something political? The answer is obviously yes. The representative, Bruun-Gundersen, asks what the Workers' Party would have done. A good start would be to read the proposal that we have presented in the matter, and our comments where we elaborate it. These include expectations for increased time use on self-study, organised learning activities, follow-up in the study and a wide range of other interventions. As I said, this is not to govern detail, but the use of stronger instruments in teacher training, vis-à-vis the institutions, is an obvious opportunity that the government is now failing to use. I understand the dilemma of the Council of State: how far are you going to go in the detailing of institutions? The Workers' Party's proposal does not govern the institutions in detail, but uses the means at our disposal to do something about this that we believe is a challenge. I understand that there we are a little bit different in reality from the government parties. I think that's a shame. But when you're not willing to use those tools, we're left with a government that's too passive to meet this challenge. And even though the Right has had the Minister of Knowledge from 2013 to 2019, and the Left now has a Minister of Research and Higher Education, it is reassuring how much is not in place. It's e.g. not in place national frameworks for teacher training practices and cooperation with the field of practice. It is not a national system for the sharing of good quality schemes that could have raised the quality, time use and learning pressure of teacher training. It is only to read the comments in this case, where I think a good expression of the inactivity is that when reference is made to accommodation schemes, reference is made to the strategy Teacher Training 2025, and then it is said that accommodation schemes can be used. Yes, it's clear: hospitation schemes can be used around the country's institutions and in schools. But what do you do to make sure that it actually happens, as the Education Association and the teachers have asked? My conclusion in this case is that we have a challenge that should be solved, where we should use instruments, but where the government chooses to be passive.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2726	Education is about education, learning and development – understanding people. Some of the most important and interesting teachers learn is just understanding their students, understanding how the students are doing, and how they are learning. The didactic takes into account how students learn the subject and different learning methods for different subjects. When the government points to professional competence, I think they're forgetting the teacher-specific competence. Religion, view of life and ethics are important. Ethical questions about subjects and facts are becoming more important and important, but the Centre Party believes this should not go beyond the pedagogics and the teaching profession in primary school teacher education. Significantly important are also pedagogics and didactics in practice. I really need to stress how administrative and resource-intensive it is for the institutions and the professionals to implement practices and have good agreements with schools and teachers. On the other hand, it is equally demanding for these schools and teachers to receive practical students. Categorisation of the study could trigger more time and capacity of institutions to follow up this work. It would also make it better for those schools and teachers who accept these students. Quality assurance of practices will also provide a national framework. From the point of view of the Centre Party, this is not a matter of detailing or excluding diversity, such as: practice abroad or practice in smaller, local schools — but students deserve follow-up and good practice in the most demanding part of the study. Never do the students work as much with the teacher study and spend as many hours of the day on teacher training as when they are in practice. The responsibility is to be quite fresh in front of students and to provide a good learning environment – and also to research on their own practices – is great. Here are several suggestions that the Center Party is promoting, which for teachers and teachers had made a big difference.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2740	I note the opposition's commitment to getting a better teacher training. I'm sharing it completely, you always have to look at how you can do things better. At the same time, you are at risk – when I hear, among others. The representative Henriksen today expressed the concern he is doing, this is a judgment not only on teacher training, but on today's teachers. The figures that show that teachers spend less time on studies than medical students are not new figures. It's been like this for many years. Then I ask the question: is it because one is not satisfied with the quality of educated teachers today, or does one believe that one can adopt increased study intensity through detail management? I think it shows a belief in a way that serves neither the educational institutions nor the students. I also agree that one must look at how one can improve the framework of practice. Practice is an important part of the professional study. To be able to create a national framework, to be able to help those involved in teacher training know the field of practice in an even better way than they do today, and thus to prepare students for it, I think it's a good development that we're going to focus on. Several have mentioned the need to strengthen the PEL subject. The PEL subject is important for teacher training. Today, 15 study credits are used for KRLE. If the PEL course continues to have 60 study credits, this, i.e. KRLE’s 15 study credits, must be taken out. Then my question is, what subject is this education to be put to? Or should this be deleted? KRLE is also an important part of the education that teachers must have in order to prepare to teach in a multicultural school, where KRLE is also a compulsory subject, in which teachers need to be introduced in teacher training in order to provide the best possible education.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2759	After this debate, I am left with one big question. Earlier today, the committee had a meeting with the Children's Ombudsman, Inga Bejer Engh. As you now know, the Children’s Ombudsman has through the report No Goals and Meaning? identified large gaps in the service to determine what students need and what kind of special education they need. They call for expertise in special education and a clean-up of the legislation to ensure that young people have their rights and a greater upgrading of the PP service. The children’s ombudsman also found in the report examples of schools that do not follow recommendations from the specialist service, and a lot of unskilled special education. The report is not just a concern of SV. The children’s ombudsman today had a major focus on the need for more pedagogics into teacher training. The share of pedagogics in education has been reduced because the government changed the framework plan for teacher training in 2016, including: 15 RLE study credits are now included in the calculation of 60 PEL study credits. This has been discussed by several people. When more and more demand more pedagogics, how can the position explain that teacher training has less pedagogy? Has the position made any thoughts about how we can raise the pillar of teacher education, namely pedagogics? That's my big question after today's debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2768	The representative, Martin Henriksen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2773	I take the word just because it was a claim from the Christian People's Party that I would not leave unanswered. It is not that when we make suggestions about teacher training, it means that we are not satisfied with today’s teachers. If any proposal for changes in teacher training meant dissatisfaction with today’s teachers, the Education Committee could also be set up at Stortinget and probably several departments in the Ministry of Knowledge. We do it because we think there is a need for change. You don't have to listen to the Workers' Party – we have, among other things. spoke with the education students themselves, who say that they like to see the students get increased expectations of time use. They wish, among other things: more time with the lectures. After all, we need to take seriously the figures from the Study Survey, which show that primary school teachers are all the least satisfied with the study – of all students – and that they are, among other things, satisfied with the study. want more time for follow-up, practice, better organisation of the study. So if you don't want to listen to the Workers' Party, you can at least listen to the students yourself.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2780	I thought I would take the floor at the end and thank you for a good debate. I can assure the opposition that we are going to follow this with teacher training closely. We're involved in doing what we can to make it the quality, that students are going to have that follow-up, and that's going to be the intensity of the studies that I think we all have ambitions about. At the same time, I want to understand that the many promises that today's government has made in recent years must also have time to settle down. I'll try to draw some a little bit longer lines in that way, even the debate we now have on pedagogics. The PEL was introduced in 2010, when it was said that the subject should provide a wide range of skills, including: to lead diverse and multicultural classes. Knowledge of different religious communities, cultures, lifestyles, ethics and citizenship should be part of the subject. It's always been like that in the PEL field. In 2017, it was collected in one module, and at the same time the bachelor's degree project of 15 credits was taken out, giving room for more educational topics. So it's a little bit about the way you put this out of the pulpit here, which I really think is part of giving a wrong picture of what we're now facing, and what's part of the grip that the government has taken, and the efforts we have on teacher training. Then I'll correct myself. I went into the Workers' Party with regard to this with the category. I took it a little too easily; it was the Center Party and SV. But my point was in any case that on the red-green side there is no doubt that one has not shown at least concrete impact on some of the proposals that have been made in this matter. In this way you can ask questions about the direction in which you want to learn from the red-green side. It's at least a little hard to see. But I can promise that today's government and today's majority will strengthen teacher training and continue to follow it closely, because we want it to have the highest quality possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2795	The representative Nina Sandberg has spoken twice earlier and gets the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2800	I'm going to help guide the representative Gudmundsen a little because he's busy manufacturing and has some problems understanding what the Workers' Party wants. The Workers' Party assumes that the teachers' students are among the least satisfied students. The proposals for improvement are based on improvement points that the teachers themselves point to and that there is research evidence to be effective. More time spent studying in a teacher training course where students get more and better practice and more pedagogics is not to be detailed. It is addressing a serious problem in society and making some necessary adjustments in dialogue with the sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2807	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2823	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, three rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2832	This proposal concerns the transparency of public health priorities and the termination of the practice of secrecy of the decision-making framework of the National Agency for Medicinal Products and Dietary Benefits linked to new medicinal products. State Council Bent Höie has delivered its opinion in a letter dated 7 May 2019. There has also been a written hearing, but no input has been received. Openness and justice are fundamental values for health priorities. When examining the prioritisation notification, a single cluster concluded with the proposal on the principle of prioritisation. The system of new methods has led to greater openness in the processes of evaluation and prioritisation in the introduction of new medicinal products and methods in the specialist services. Openness of the principles underlying the decisions and openness about the organisation of processes are important. Today, we have achieved a systematic approach and a device that takes account of justice and equivalent access to health services. It is therefore alarming that the centre party should ignore the fact that the disadvantages of openness may be greater than the benefits in some cases. It could hit the patients. High costs for new medicinal products and new medical devices may result in the products either not being put into service or the depriving of other parts of the service. It is right that the debate on priorities must focus on more than expensive new medicinal products. All health care interventions shall be assessed on the basis of three priority criteria: benefit, resource and seriousness. The more serious a state is, or the greater the use of a measure, the higher the resource use we can accept. Through the work of the Blankholm Committee, we have gained a foundation for discussing the principles, processes and instruments of priorities in the health and care services as a whole that will contribute to the spread of the priority debate and contribute to greater openness on priorities throughout the service.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2847	Once again, we are here to discuss transparency in healthcare, or in this case a lack of transparency. Through the various debates we've had on this topic, there's one thing that has surprised me, and there's so much distance between how to describe the value and the importance of transparency, looking up how to actually follow up in practice. When the prioritisation notice was examined in November 2016, a unanimous committee stated that: ‘The Committee would stress that priority is given to allocating health resources to some areas and actions ahead of others, or to giving some access faster than others. Such priorities may be perceived as unfair. Then transparency about decision-making processes is crucial to building confidence in the decisions being made. User involvement, i.e. the involvement of patients and users, is also essential to strengthen the legitimacy of decisions. The Committee points out that there is a long tradition in Norway for transparency and participation in priority decisions, and that these are important values that must continue and be used as the basis for the prioritisation work in the future.’» It's tempting to ask, what happened? Public acquisitions of medicinal products for specialist healthcare have had a long tradition in Norway. Since 1995, LIS, the Medical Products Purchasing Cooperation, has been responsible for the outsourcing of medicinal products for special medical use. In the case of public tenders, unit prices of medicinal products have been open until 2016. In June 2015, LIS was transferred from the Hospital Apotetes HF to the Health Businesses Purchasing Service AS, HINAS. National agreements for medicinal products and other goods and services were then merged into one company. On 21 March 2016, HINAS sent a letter to all health companies in the country notifying that unit prices should be confidential. The decision on the confidentiality of unit prices of medicinal products was taken by the RHF Directors in February 2017. The reason for the decision was that secrecy was necessary in order to comply with the Public and Administrative Act. The decision thus invalidated more than 20 years of transparent practice. The opposition does not support this development. Both the Labour Party and the Centre have proposed transparency on unit prices of medicinal products in Norwegian hospitals, which was voted down in Stortinget on 28 March this year. The fact that the professional conclusion of the Agency on the cost-effectiveness of a new medicinal product is no longer to be publicly available is essentially confined to the same range. With that, I address the proposals of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2869	The representative Tuva Moflag has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2874	Openness and justice are fundamental values of health care priorities. Lack of openness and increasing secrecy weakens confidence in the priorities that are being set. In 2013, a national system was established for the introduction of new methods in the specialist services. Lack of transparency and openness have gradually been a major weakness of this system. In 2017, Regional Health Executives, which form decision-making forums, aimed at keeping medicinal product prices secret. On 28 March this year, the Government Party voted against the opposition's proposals to change this practice. Subsequently, it has also been known that the decision-making forum had taken a decision that the State Medicines Agency would no longer publish the conclusion on the cost-effectiveness of medicinal products in its methodological assessments. This is probably an approach that enhances confidentiality and provides less transparency on the priorities of the treatment provision for sick patients. When the government party earlier argued against openness about medicinal prices, they used as arguments that the price of the medicinal product itself gives little insight into what is behind the priority of a medicinal product is understandable – precisely. A new medicinal product may be cost-effective even if it has a higher price than the medicinal product it replaces. But now cost-effectiveness is also kept a secret in today's system. The priority message states that the collection of budgetary consequences by introducing a new measure may be part of the skilful assessment of the introduction of a new measure, but now the overall budgetary consequences are also kept secret. The severity criterion means that the more serious the disease, the higher the resource use should be acceptable, but also the practice of this criterion is now being made secret. The central party believes that the priority debate in Norway has been too narrow. He's all about new expensive drugs. The setting-up of the National Council for Health Care Priorities has contributed to this. The centre party was – if I think correctly – the only party that was against the termination of this national council. In Sweden, a priority centre has been set up with a national knowledge centre for health and care priorities. We are proposing today to create a national priority council also in Norway. With that, I take up the proposal from the Center Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2887	The representative Kjersti Toppe has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2892	I would like to begin by stressing that the system of new methods since its introduction in 2013 has contributed to greater transparency in decisions on the introduction of methods in the specialist healthcare service. This has been done through the transparency of the principles underlying the decisions and the transparency of the organisation of the investigation and decision-making processes. These are processes that were previously largely behind closed doors in individual healthcare establishments or hospitals. In the examination of the prioritisation report by the Storting, there was broad political agreement that health care priorities should be based on a set of principles of priority and that transparency should be the main principle of decision-making. However, in the case of price information on medicinal products and technology, transparency cannot go ahead of the patient's best interests. In cases where prices of medicinal products and methods are confidential, this would have an impact on whether the magnitudes calculated in the methodological evaluations, where prices are included as part of them, can also be published. The principles underlying the priorities shall be transparent. The setting-up of the principles includes the considerations to be taken into account in the priority decisions and how they are to be taken. In the Storing Message it was among other things. established that a measure should be assessed against the alternative cost of the measure and that a cost-effect fraction assessed against the alternative cost should be calculated and that the cost-effect fraction should be weighed seriously. It was also justified why the introduction of medicinal products and methods did not set official or explicit maximum cost limits in healthcare. I fully agree with the proposers that the priority debate should be about much more than just expensive medicines. It is important that we discuss health care priorities widely. I am therefore pleased that, through the Blankholm Committee, we have obtained a good foundation for discussing principles, processes and instruments for prioritisation also in the municipal health and care services and the publicly funded dental services. Finally, I would like to point out that the World Health Assembly has recently adopted a resolution supported by Norway, which will contribute to more transparency in the pharmaceutical markets. I will follow up the case in the World Health Organisation and other international forums and engage in dialogue with other countries on the follow-up to the resolution, just as I have said in the United Kingdom in the past, that Norway is working internationally for more transparency, in order to achieve more transparency in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2905	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2910	As the Council of State itself had in mind, in May this year a decision was taken in the WHO on the transparency of real prices for medicinal products. Norway has taken an active part in the negotiations on the resolution and the Minister for Health Bent Höie has stated in the context of the decision: ‘I am pleased that we agreed on a resolution calling on countries to publish their real pharmaceutical prices. This is an important first step towards transparency in the pharmaceutical markets. Norway has taken an active part in the negotiations and has provided for transparency in terms of both pharmaceutical prices, costs and research results.’.» In the light of these opinions, when can we expect the Minister of Health to follow up the resolution he himself has agreed to negotiate and join, thereby ensuring the publication of real drug prices in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2920	As I have explained in Stortinget every time we have discussed this question, it is a prerequisite for being able to have more transparency in relation to individual prices in Norway that one gets to international solutions. That's also why I work internationally to get that kind of solution. I am going to have a bilateral meeting with my colleague in the Netherlands as early as tomorrow for example. to discuss the follow-up to this resolution. If the representative reads this resolution as if it were a support for each country to begin to have openness separately, she has not intervened in the processes set in motion here. It is precisely a point to have this kind of work in the World Health Organisation, where countries meet in an international arena to get joint solutions for this. Because if not – if we do it as some people call for Norway to do alone in this area – Norwegian patients have to pay a high price.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2928	No, I haven't read the resolution yet. I referred to Minister of Health Bent Höie's own words, where he says he is pleased with a resolution that encourages countries to publish their real pharmaceutical prices. My question was when can we expect this publication to come in Norway – because I expect that when you have been with and negotiated a resolution, you will follow your own call?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2935	This resolution is not a call for Norway as a country alone to publish our prices. This is a resolution that is just about getting more international cooperation, so that we can create a basis for publication. As I have said several times in Stortinget: if Norway starts to practice this alone, Norwegian patients are paying a very high price, either because the medicine has not been used, or because we pay such a high price for the medicine that it affects other patients. That's why I'm working on this in an international arena – to provide a basis for Norway, along with several other countries, to have more transparency. But then we have to have many countries with us, and the follow-up to this resolution we're working all the way across the international arena. Among other things, as I said, I will have talks with my colleague in the Netherlands about it tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2940	In today's medicine, March 21st this year, Jon Magnussen and Ole Frithjof Norheim, who led the work that laid the foundation for the public health priorities, are going hard on the government and what they call secrecy around priority decisions. They think that developments are going in the wrong direction, that one sees more secrecy now than before, and that this is unfortunate and not in line with their recommendations. They fear that the entire decision-making process will lose the legitimacy of which you depend, and that it is becoming increasingly difficult to see the basis for priority. These aren't any kind of people, they have a lot of trust. Now state councils like to criticise the Center Party in this matter, but here these people go out and are very concerned about increasing secrecy – not less, but increasing secrecy. Does the Council of State think these two are wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2947	Yes, in part of that article it is wrong, and I have also responded to that in today's medicine. I mean what we've done now, as I said in my post, has contributed to more, not less, openness. I agree that we're going to have more transparency, I just disagree with a strategy that means that it's the Norwegian patients who are going to pay the price for more transparency. I also disagree with the position that one should derogate from, among other things. competition law in this area. One should rather work for more transparency. But what could contribute to more transparency in prices where discounts are needed is precisely international solutions, both through the EU, the World Health Organisation and other international arenas – where I, and Norway, work for more transparency.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2954	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2961	Everyone's for confidence. During both the debate on the throne and the debate on the government declaration, all parties talk about trust. The Norwegian community is particularly confident, and we often knock that on the table as one of our great advantages. An important ingredient in the recipe for trust is just openness. We must have open processes and tolerate debate on choices we make, including in the case of medicines. Trust is also lost, and we politicians must be able to stand in unpopular decisions. Professional assessments can be unpopular, and then we have to work for understanding around them. The worst thing we can do is sit on our high horse and raise ourselves above patients, users and others who use the drugs. The health field is an inexhaustible budget. We almost never get funds in line with ambitions, to treat, rehabilitate and prevent. That is why it is so important to open discussions on difficult priorities. I believe openness is a good Norwegian tradition. Different countries have different practices, and we believe that the Center Party, among other things, is must look to Sweden and establish a national priority model according to their model. The centre party has a fundamental belief in reducing red tape and centralisation, as well as increasing trust and decentralisation. Our overall commitment to society also applies to medicines.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2972	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2988	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a replacement of lines with up to five lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up for the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e2997	Both patients and district health professionals experience the effects of a tight hospital economy. It was cut in psychiatry, rehabilitation, emergency medicine and food supplies. The poor economy is caused by chronic underfinancing by the right-wing government. The working party has a strong understanding of the frustration reported by healthcare professionals, a frustration related to target management systems and market mechanisms in healthcare businesses. The Minister of Health is using every opportunity to push the health business boards in front of him, while, before the 2013 elections, he clearly announced that he would take all responsibility for the service as Minister of Health. The distance between life and learning has rarely been greater. There is too much to be measured in the service. We agree that many occupational groups spend too much time on reporting. The working party is critical that the bureaucracy at the top has increased and that trust between municipalities and health businesses has been weakened. This is done by the Right Government and by the Council of State. We can show that the follow-up to the interaction reform received crushing criticism from the Riksrevision in 2016, cf. Document 3:5 for 2015–2016, discussed in 2016. Too many patients have become throwovers between specialist health services and primary health services. In addition, there are not enough people trained within a number of occupational groups. In particular, there is a shortage of health professionals, nurses, some medical specialists and medical specialists who could work in the districts. It is a political responsibility to find a solution to these challenges. The Minister of Health is running out of responsibility and pointing to the bureaucrats. This government has contributed to a hearing disorder in health businesses. We in the Workers' Party want to abolish the system of neutral VAT in healthcare companies, which contributes to outsourcing services. We also believe that effort-driven funding should be reduced, in particular in the food supply, psychiatry and the drug field. We believe that health business boards must have the political competence and competence of primary health services. When we ran, everyone in the Public Trendelag knew – e.g. in my home region – who the director of Health Mid-Norway was. Regional health enterprises participated in social development and fostered dialogue with the municipalities with which they cooperated. Today, hardly anyone has heard the name of the director. I have not met a councilman or a rapporteur who has experienced dialogue with the board. Faceless bureaucrats struggle to anchor decisions and good and trusting cooperation with the inhabitants through the municipalities. The result will be mistrusted. And we're going to see that through engagement like this. the mobilisation of the federal guerrillas and municipalities that experience commercial governance both in health companies and in the university boards, which are to ensure adequate health professionals on the watch of this government. The Labour Party is also opposed to the right government privatisation reform Free treatment choice, which helps to build a commercial health sector at the expense of public hospitals. We believe that there is a need to review the design of regional health enterprises and, in particular, the level of pay at the top level of enterprises. A commitment should be made to technical support staff for health workers, in addition to making necessary investments in ICT. The proposal to remove today's system of state ownership of hospitals, based on strong regional governance, is not considered to be the best for specialist health services. It will weaken the role of the Storting in the management of our common healthcare system and may potentially contribute to the creation of greater geographical inequalities in healthcare. We note that the solution of the proposers involves a doubling in the number of health companies, and we certainly believe that hospitals do not need another layer of control, either a central hospital administration or a directorate in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e3016	I think everyone in this room shares the ambition that we should create the healthcare that is best for the patient. It is a public responsibility to ensure good health care, and patients should be guaranteed an equivalent offer across the country. In the past, the management of hospitals was under the county council. Then it was the different county councils that were responsible. This gave poor coherence to hospital services in Norway and little control over management. After the hospital reform, we treat several patients, we have shorter waiting times and higher quality in the offer. The important thing is equally full that patients are more satisfied with the offer they get now than they were before. The rapid development of medical and technological methods requires the ability of health services to adapt and flexibility. Modern hospitals are complex organisations. It imposes great demands on the management of the day-to-day business. That is why it is also essential that we have clear and clear responsibilities. The model of the centre party, which we are going to discuss here today, gives the impression that county councils and state politicians have a direct responsibility for hospital operations, while in reality they have to deal with the budgets and governance documents adopted by the Stortinget and the Government. Thus, it undermines the role of the Storting as the elected level responsible for specialist health care and the constitutional responsibility of the Minister of Health towards Stortinget. It will also be a strenuous exercise for the elected members of the board of directors of the regional level. They will be able to cross-examine the policy they are pursuing locally and the policies that the Stortinget and the government want to implement. It opens up exactly the kind of political games that today's governance model intended to clean up, and it will once again help to pulverize responsibility. Good financial management is important. More efficient use of resources means better provision of health to more people. Operations and investments should be seen in the context. Today, the four regional health companies are responsible for providing good patient care to all citizens in their health region. They draw up plans for the further development of the health service based on local needs. This forms the basis for action in the fields of trades, services, buildings, equipment and ICT. The proposal of the Centre for a new funding model will make it more difficult to see operational and capital resources in context. The use of the provisions of the Accounting Act, as we do today, provides a good overview of the use of resources and provides a basis for good governance. Lower cost growth than in appropriations and better financial management have made room for increasing investment in recent years, and the level of investment is now clearly higher than in the 1990s. Just as it is the responsibility of the hospital to have the proper complex operating team and the correct number of health workers at work, it must also be the responsibility of hospitals to have the necessary equipment and up-to-date hospital buildings. This model gives freedom to prioritise investment, and it has given results. Local government investment in hospitals in the 1990s on average amounted to 3 billion. kr annually. This year, the investment budgets of hospitals amount to approx. 13 B.C.E. kr, and the level is increasing. The choice of model should be about what is best for patients. It is fully possible to organise hospitals in different ways and with different funding models. Today, we have a solution we've had for 17 years. It has provided better coherence in hospital services, better interaction and better control of financial management. The model is not static, nor should it be. But it's worked well. We should rather develop it further than go back to what it was in the 1990s. At least that's not what the patients deserve.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e3039	I'm glad the Center Party doesn't control Norwegian health policy. Imagine if they had done that and carried out this experiment with people's health and life as they suggest in this matter. There is a reason why the county councils are no longer operating in hospital. When the county councils were responsible, the capacity was low, the economy was weak, the research was poor and the queues were long. It is sad that the Senterpartiet and SV want to take us back to a hospital offer that was so bad. I agree that today's model is not optimal. The Progress Party wants to replace regional health companies with another model, but we just can't go back to a previous organisation that was proven to be worse than the one we have today. Today’s model is far better than the proposal of the Centre Party to revive a model that in its time was a disaster for the health sector. In any case, sound financial management of hospitals makes sense. There is no automatic improvement in the provision of services by health care establishments. The Progress Party has ensured funding for hospitals where they receive income from how many patients they are treating. Also that model is the Center Party and the SV against, and I think that's nice. According to their model, the hospitals in Norway that operate best are, ironically, those hospitals that do not treat a single patient. Each patient treated is then a direct cost to the hospitals. Hospitals will not have any incentives to treat patients with such funding, and we have seen that in the past. Then it'll be queue. Eight years with SV and the Labour Party in government led to increased waiting times. Health cows increased, six maternity wards were laid down. After only six years with the Stoltenberg II government, health cows had increased by 73 000 people. Progress Party – The Right Government spent two years bringing down the queues by over 40,000. Both queues and waiting times continue to go down. We did that by introducing four simple grips: free hospital choice; more purchases of private operators package history in case of a number of diseases funding to hospitals according to how many patients they actually treat Norway has one of the world’s best health services. Hospitals are well run, and many patients boast of good follow-up. But it's also a field where you can always do better, and of course we should be humiliating about that. The government is now directing health businesses, for example: through economic frameworks, prioritisation messages and ongoing dialogue with regional health businesses. But politicians have no prerequisite for detailed management of the entire sector, so something has to be left to professionals. Of course, the organisation of specialist health services should be discussed at regular intervals. But the fact that elected representatives are to take over the direct management of hospitals is not the way to go — nor is it the way to remove free hospital elections, as the Center Party and the socialist parties they want to cooperate with see. Folks can do a lot of things, but detailed management of a hospital isn't one of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e3071	Yes, the Center Party will take the hospitals back to government and public administration. The introduction of the healthcare business model was clearly linked to the introduction of market solutions in the health sector, such as the introduction of the orderler-executor model and activity-based or input-driven funding. The primary part of the 2002 reform was to abolish regional government and replace it with business-style governance. The dissatisfaction that hospitals are driven by a business model is very great. The combination of payroll, business organisation with the governance model of a limited liability company and high level of price financing has weakened the overarching of political governance and has stimulated increased competition between hospitals instead of cooperation. The health model has a centralising and bureaucratic effect. He has led to a large increase in the level of rent in Norwegian hospitals, while there is no provision for urban renting. The decision on significant changes – not details, but significant changes – in hospital provision lacks democratic legitimacy. The members of the board of health care professionals are not responsible to the people in elections. The requirement of loyalty to superior bodies is stronger than ever. The size is rarely involved in significant changes in hospital provision. This way political responsibility is erased, powdered and obscured. Today's governance model does not build up during the cooperation between the specialist services and the municipal health service. The National Audit Office has shown how hospitals cut in bedtime and build down the number of bed places without strengthening the capacity of the municipalities. An example of the failure of health services law is the acute situation in Health More and Romesdal. The Health Agency is planning comprehensive cut-offs where the consequence is that municipal health services have to take on patient responsibility without a penny. This has led to deep mistrust, and the local government of Nordmøre has withdrawn as we know it from all cooperation agreements. The survey in VG on the night-time running of patients from hospitals is probably an example of the consequences of a healthcare service based on a market economy principle, where the currency is bed places and the health service with basic values is under pressure. The Women's Country Selection was given the task of assessing how the country's ownership of hospitals would be established in the future, but they were given such a tenuous mandate that they could not make a real substitute for the health care model. I'm sorry. In the proposal for a representative, the central party proposes a model for public elected hospital management. We also propose the introduction of a new funding model for investment in large new hospital buildings. Since the beginning of 2002, financial management and reporting to the business community have been based on private sector accounting laws, which are developed for profitability management in business. The centre party believes that the accounting law for hospital operations must be waived. Hospitals must be covered by the same budgetary and accounting systems as municipalities and counties have today. This means that a distinction between investment and operating conditions is made. It is unacceptable that hospitals should cut patient supply in order to afford equity to invest. There are also many out there that don't understand, and one that doesn't trust such a system. It's a paradox that an actual patient supply has to stop to afford to invest in health. It is also a paradox that today’s Health Minister, who in 2013, opted for the abolition of the Health Agency model, is today the foremost defender of the Health Agency regime, together with the Labour Party. The Labour Party and the Right are, therefore, some fundamental members of the hospital policy when it comes to governance, organisation and leadership. They do not take on the dissatisfaction that is against the health model today, among both people and professionals. It is not as the Labour Party writes in the setting that the reason for the challenges in hospitals is only stems from the underfunding of the hospital sector. The Labour Party must be able to see that we are forced to take a specifier with the way Norwegian hospitals are funded, organised and hired. We need to take a specifier with the market-based principles on which the healthcare business model is based, and we need to secure popular governance and quiet rental. So I'm going to propose the suggestions the Center Party has with SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e3094	The representative Kjersti Toppe has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e3099	In 2013, the Right promised to shut down regional health businesses. I remember that our current health minister was one of the great critics of the health business model. At that time Bent Höie pointed to the undemocratic by the model: ‘There will always be a torch, but now the torch will know where to go. They can address their own politicians at Stortinget, who with our model will be responsible for the decisions. They do not currently have the power of regional health establishments.» It was wise to say that, and a large part of our criticism is directed at just that – the undemocratic about the model and that it is not popular people who make decisions about life and health. Here are some examples of this: The decision to secure the current food establishments is broken in Kristiansund – government councils point to the company. The county doctor filed a case against Haukeland University Hospital after a patient died due to understaffing in the acute over several years – the council points to the company. State councils ask hospitals to give priority to the so-called golden rule of psychiatry, yet there will be no change. When we ask questions about things that go wrong, it pushes over to the company, because the framework of the model facilitates the discharge from political responsibility. In other words, political responsibility is being powdered. It may not be that the Council of State should point to the entity, while the entity points back when something goes wrong. But that is what is happening today when worn-out hospitals bear enormous costs over the operating budget to secure new buildings. This is a result of the business model, because hospitals have to save money to build new buildings, and it's the patients that are going through this. An example of this is from Health Bergen, which has to go with 120 million. kr in surplus on today’s operating budget to build new Haukeland hospitals. The employees have chosen to send a complaint to both the county doctor and the Labour Inspectorate because of understaffing at the women's clinic. The county doctor took a case because of understaffing in the emergency. The Inland Hospital, which has decided to save 57 million. kr, lay down beds and pillows in the psychiatry. The South Hospital is planning to cut 200 mills and make a saving of 200 mills. kr. Health professionals are concerned about both the patient care and the child care department. Today's financing model also goes beyond hospital buildings. We see more examples of a reduction in the cost framework for new hospitals, and there is a risk that hospitals will be built too small. An example of this is Ahus, where the cost framework was reduced by 2 billion. kr during the planning period and the emergency reception had to be rebuilt quickly after opening, due to tight conditions. Narrow conditions at the emergency room in the Hospital Østfold are another example. "There will always be a torch, but now the torch will know where to go." I think it was great words that were said at the time. Nevertheless, we need action in politics, not words. That is why, together with the Centre Party, we are promoting proposals for an investigation into more democratic management of hospitals and a financing model that ensures good and sound services to the people.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e3133	Around the country, people have had to fight for their local hospital, for the maternity ward and for the emergency department. It is the health enterprise model that is the underlying problem and the cause of the problems, namely that hospitals are managed more according to the bottom line and less according to patients’ needs. There is a need to cut the supply of patients in order to save funds to finance future hospital buildings. An example of this is the corporate decision to close the maternity ward at Kristian Health Hospital to save money for the investment in the new hospital outside Molde, even if it would lead to irresponsible maternity care for more women in the county. After strong public opposition, the undertaking reversed that decision. But the law was in its time made according to the model of the Share Act, in order for hospitals to be governed according to overall business-economic objectives, alongside the elected bodies, and to reduce the influence of professionals. Carl I. Hagen said that Jens Stoltenberg's business model was taken out of the Progress Party's principal programme. That's exactly what Carl I had. Hagen was absolutely right in. In addition, the law empowers regional enterprises to outsource treatment to private individuals, which they have used diligently, so that about 10 pst. of the public hospital budgets now go to private. Red will vote in favour of the proposals from the Centre Party and SV, but we do not ignore the challenges that existed in the management of hospitals before the business model. We want an end to an inflated and overpaid management and directorship, with low health professional competence and marginal health policy competence and without democratic legitimacy, driving hospitals as stores. That is why we are voting in favour of the proposals from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. We also know that half of enterprises’ operating resources should be recovered from so-called input-driven funding. The diagnosis and treatment are coded and give a fixed price. Some patients thus become more profitable than others. An example of this from today is that the offer given at the ABC clinic in Ullevål, which does not lead to surgical intervention and which results in less stress on the individual pregnant woman, is less premiered than if Caesar sections or other types of intervention are performed at birth. Red will also increase the basic support and go in for 100 pst. the framework financing of hospitals. We will liquidate this Progress Party inspired and Workerpart-introduced health company model, take the hospitals back to popular governance and move away from market management, which we now have, of the hospitals. While we are dealing with the proposal on health enterprises, there is a strike for pensions from the first crown, regardless of the employment rate, just as it is in the municipalities within the KS. In hospitals, you don't earn a pension if you have less than 20 pst. position, which is what you get if you work within the KS area. At the same time as directors are getting more and more million wages at the top of the health bureaucracy, low-paid workers on the floor do not earn a pension from the first crown. We believe that the Storting should and must correct – not by directly intervening in an ongoing strike, but by supporting the Red's proposals, which are as follows: ‘The budget asks the Government to promote the necessary legislative changes to ensure that all nurses and pharmacists, as well as all employees in the State, are covered by the occupational pension scheme irrespective of the rate of employment.’ It does not intervene in the strike, but corrects an injustice that also strengthens the claims of the strikers. This is true of many thousands of people. Most of them are low-paid women with a small percentage of jobs. These deserve the same rights as those working in the municipal sector. I hope that all parties can support our proposal, and I will bring it to the attention of Red in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e3155	The representative Bears Moxnes has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e3160	Any governance model and any funding system can always be improved. However, if a person is to make major changes, it is wise to be sure that the changes he is making provide better results for the purpose, which in this context is to provide patients with better treatment and follow-up. In this way, I am quite sure that the representative proposal that has been put forward here, and the proposals that have been promoted by the Central Party and the SV, will contribute to the opposite, because it is a model that has been tried earlier. Today's governance model has made important changes in today's government. The most important thing is the introduction of a national health and hospital plan as a tool for ensuring the democratic anchoring of what should be the main development of our hospitals. For this reason, the first national health and hospital plan was essential to lay down the hospital structure in Norway in view of emergency services, food supply and many of the issues that had created a lot of anxiety and discussion. The population in many of the places that often felt that there was uncertainty as to whether they would have hospitals, food supplies and emergency services in the future is now avoiding this uncertainty, through work on the National Health and Hospital Plan. It is now working on the next national health and health plan, where important themes are better interaction with municipalities, competences and technology. In this proposal for a representative, one calls for state politicians to re-manage the hospitals. It was a situation that led to a blackmail game where one did not know who was responsible for how much money the hospitals should have. It was a model that led to an unnecessary division of responsibilities between hospitals and made hospitals work in teams, and the worst thing was that this led to patients experiencing more and more waiting times. It was under-funding of hospital research missions, it was under-funding of hospital reinvestment needs in construction and maintenance, it was under-funding of the need for investment in medical-technical equipment, while waiting times increased and more and more queueed. Now we're in a situation where more people get treatment. There are record investments in construction and equipment. There has been a strong growth in medical research in Norway. And when I met the protestors from More and Romesdal outside the Stortinget earlier this year, when they demonstrated against the decision to shut down the food supply in Kristiansund, I could confidently tell them that they had come to the right place, because the hospitals in Norway are politically ruled. As Minister of Health, I have overall political responsibility, and I also have the opportunity to intervene in all important matters. However, part of the decision-making basis is the local treatment of local administrations, both in the individual health business and in the individual health region. The Board of Health More and Romesdal has now decided not to merge these two food departments at the time they had previously decided. That is why I have not seen any reason to intervene in that decision either. But the demonstrators had come to the right place when I met them outside the Storting. And since 2013, the Stortinget has adopted different definitions in hospitals and has helped to determine what the hospital services in Norway will look like in the future. So I have my words from 2013, with one single exception: the promise to shut down regional health businesses. It was investigated, it was assessed, and then the alternatives that came up went in the opposite direction. In addition, as the debate so far has shown, there are many views on different models in the Grand Duchy at the time. But one thing is certain: in Stortinget there is no majority for any model other than the one we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e3180	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e3185	With the model we have, Stortinget adopts the framework, while the council owns the hospitals and elects directors who implement the owner's will. Through the treatment of the national health and hospital plan, the size has decided that university hospitals/regional hospitals should transfer planned treatment to the smaller emergency hospitals. The Council of State knows that almost nothing has happened. In a case that goes in Health Mid-Norway now, where the consequences of the municipal reform are being addressed, it is transferred to St. Olavs as a result of a municipal merger of patients from Health Nord-Trøndelag. This means that St. Olavs gets full compensation for receiving more patients and no incentive to outsource more planned treatment, contrary to what the Storting has said. How does the Council of State explain this?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e3192	It is quite right that the Stortinget joined the government's proposal in the National Health and Hospital Plan, namely that hospitals should work more together as a team, not least the major hospitals, where we also have a responsibility to ensure that the smaller hospitals are assigned tasks that provide a basis for maintaining a decentralised hospital structure. I think you very much agree that it makes sense that municipalities belong to the same hospital when they are moved between regions or merged as municipalities. It's about the emergency medical chain going to work. Most patients are acute patients. That's why it's going to necessarily also mean that it's going to be transferred money in this way. Now Health Mid-Norway is working on the specific matter that the representative raises, and I expect of course that they look at opportunities to also decentralise further tasks, including: from St. Olavs to Health Nord-Trøndelag.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e3201	The Council of State does not answer my question. We fully agree that it makes sense to belong to the nearest emergency hospital. The challenge comes when Health Nord-Trøndelag, as a result of municipalities joining together, loses its economy and is not strengthened by elective, planned treatment, as the Stortinget has said they should be. In this specific case, it means that Health Nord-Trøndelag loses a total of 44 million. kr, while St. Olavs gets 60 million. kr. If you had done what the Stortinget asked for and put out more planned, this could have gone up, and Health Nord-Trøndelag had not cut any more in an already very tight hospital budget. So my question to the Council of State is, does he feel that his board members and the board of directors have a good enough knowledge of the challenges of this region?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e3210	Yes, those who sit on the boards of health regions and local health businesses are well aware of the challenges of the region, because they live and live in the region in general. It makes sense that the decisions are taken there as often as possible, because here in the Storting we represent the whole country, and there are only a few of us who are from the specific region of the different things are from. The calculation that the representative here is trying to do won't go up, because there's a direct transfer of responsibility for patients, a care-care responsibility. Then it must also follow with money to do so. The large part of the patient treatment is acute, and that is the responsibility of St. Olavs now assumes, as Health Nord-Trøndelag had before. Of course, it would be unreasonable if St. Olavs would assume responsibility for these patients without having to pay for it. But that one in that context should also look at the possibility of further decentralising tasks from St. Olavs to Health Nord-Trøndelag, I fully agree, and I expect the region to look at that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e3219	In a letter to the Committee, the Council of State writes that he will strongly warn against the proposal of the Central Party because it "undermines the role of the Stortinge as the elected level of specialist health care". I think it's a very special comment. Then I'll ask the question back: how do my government councils that today's system secures the role of Storting at the popular level and our responsibility for the specialist services? Is the Council of State that today's system ensures the role of the Storting, our responsibility – as elected representatives – for the specialist services?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e3226	Yes — mainly through the National Health and Hospital Plan tool, which ensures that every four years the Storting draws up the main lines for the future development of hospitals. And so is the fact that the Stortinge determines the hospitals' budgets annually. Through budgetary procedures, the Storting also provides important guidance for the use of this money, which is followed up in the annual mission documents and by health regions. The size also deals with all major investment issues through the loan allocations, and the Storting also deals with all laws dealing with the specialist health service, and a number of other documents that are important for development, such as: a separate survey on maternity care, which has guided the development of maternity care since the notification was adopted by the Stortinget. So yes, I mean that. And this proposal would mean pulverizing that responsibility. There will no longer be any national responsibility for the development of our hospitals with this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e3233	Our proposal is to establish a governing national health and hospital plan, not a hospital plan that has no effect, and has no consequences, such as the health plan proposed by this government, where it does not even affect the closure of food departments, where the Stortinget should not decide whether to lay down the largest emergency hospital in Norway, that is, Ullevål. None of this shall be brought to the attention of the Stortinget, and a national health and hospital plan is not governing against such decisions. It is up to the executive boards to take full and complete responsibility for it and then only to be confirmed in a business meeting with the Council of State. One has to stick to what we're actually suggesting. And I want to ask again whether the Council of State sees nothing in the criticism that there is no democratic governance in today's model? And is there nothing at all that the Council of State wants to change?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e3240	Firstly, it is quite clear that the proposal promoted here would have powdered national political responsibility for the hospital and specialist health services in Norway. People would have major problems knowing who is responsible for the hospitals with this proposal. You know that, because this is something we've heard before. Then I am a little surprised that the representative believes that the national health and hospital plan has had no significance. I think the representative should take a trip to Tynset and ask those who work at the hospital there. When I was visiting them a short time ago, the feedback was at least very clear, that the national health and hospital plan had been of great importance, because it created predictability that there would be a hospital on Tynset in the future, which allows them to develop a better offer on Tynset, and that they did not experience any uncertainty. If a traveler goes to Narvik and asks the population there, now that you're building a new hospital, if not national health and hospital plans have had an impact on them, I also think that the representative would get a very clear answer, that yes, it has been very important in Narvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e3249	The background for the 0 pst. limit in the KS area is a judgment in the Labour Court of 2013, which concluded that the limit of 37 pst. This position discriminated against part-time employees. Then the KS stated that the limit was set to 0 pst. to make up a pension from 2014. That judgment followed the Stortinget up with a change in law which established the registration limit of 20 pst. for civil servants. Unlike the KS, the occupational pension conditions were not subject to collective bargaining in the State, and the State could then unilaterally decide that a so-called non-discriminatory limit should be 20 pst. My question is, what really separates this 37 pst limit – which was discriminatory – from a limit of 20 pst. as regards discrimination against part-time employees? This is, of course, the practice in the state as of today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e3260	The representative asks the wrong Council of State. This is clearly a question for the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. With regard to the current strike in the sector, I have great respect for the Norwegian model, and that this is a question that is decided between the social partners.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e3265	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e3272	I will comment on the Red's proposal, proposal No. 3, in this case, to provide nurses, pharmacists and all the employees of the State with earnings in the occupational pension schemes, regardless of the percentage of the vacancy, or in other words, earnings from the first crown. Of course, the Labour Party shall vote in favour of this proposal, which is very much in line with a proposal that we made in the Stortinget on 7 December 2015, in one case the undersigned was the case rapporteur for, and which concerned the proposal of the Solberg Government to set a minimum limit on the right to membership of 20 p.m. position. Unfortunately, only the Labour Party, SV and the Environmental Party of the Greens voted to remove the minimum limit at that time. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Center Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left all went in for a lower limit on the right to membership of 20 p.m. Had the Workers' Party's proposal been adopted, LO and YS-organised in the hospital sector had been free to strike for the right to a pension from the first crown, as they are now doing. Usually, the Labour Party is careful to comment on ongoing labour conflicts, of respect for the rules of the labour market. In the ongoing strike in the hospital sector, we have made an exception, precisely because the strike basis is fully consistent with the Workers' Party's clear programme obligations on pensions from the first crown for all. It is a fundamental principle of the new public interest, which already applies in municipal occupational pension schemes, and we have proposed the same in the private sector, together with SV. The latter was also not adopted, but was supported by the Centre Party, the Greens and Reds. The background to the case in 2015 was, as stated, a judgment in the Labour Court of 2013 that the 14-hour municipal occupational retirement age limit broke with the Work Environment Act's ban on discrimination against part-time employees. They didn't say about the border also broken by the Equality Act. In any case, most women work in such small job breaks. Nor did the Labour Court say anything about what might be a legal minimum limit, but referred the question to the parties. After the judgment, KS and KLP chose to completely lift the minimum limit for about 40000 local staff. It was confirmed in the tariff settlement in 2014. Government growth and growth in 2015 said no to around 10 000 government employees in the same situation. Some of them now strike. The NHO has subsequently declined to around one million employees in the private sector. This year, Specter says no. Then the law remains. For the time being, neither the Solberg government nor the bulk of the population have been willing to do so. The Labour Party hopes that the LO and YS organised in the hospital sector will win with their equitable pension requirements. At the same time, they may also have paved the way for other government employees, but also for private sector employees. The representative Jonas Gahr Støre has put written questions to the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs on this matter, but in order to take this route of law, we must unfortunately have a different number of large numbers.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e3285	The health model implies that health professionals must comply with the accounting law. This means that hospitals have to be run with excess to save money to invest in new hospital buildings. Several places are the result of people making unacceptable cuts in the patient supply over the years before a new hospital building is to be realized. One of the most serious examples of this is now in More and Romesdal. In Health Møre and Romesdal, it is decided to build hospitals on the North Moravia and Romesdal, but the company has been operating with deficits since 2011 and has collected a cash loan of around 800 million. kr. In order to achieve the excess one needs to invest in a new hospital, the health care agency in More and Romesdal needs to find measures, saving measures, up to 500 million. kr every year. As a saving measure, it was among other things: proposed to cut the daily supply of Lake Holt DPS, shut down the Kristiansund maternity ward and beat her with the Molde maternity ward and shut down the Aure and Mork rehabilitation centres. In addition, the company wanted to save money by cutting in bedtime, reducing bed places and beating in bulk ambulances. Now the closure of the maternity ward is delayed, for example. because the managing director fears that aggregation could go beyond the entity’s ability to provide defence services. Instead, the entity will submit a new proposal in the spring of 2020 to close the Kristiansund maternity ward – which is unacceptable. In addition, the managing director has turned to the decision to shut down the rehabilitation centre at Aure, and that's good. In advance, critics of the closure had pointed out that More and Romsdal already have significantly fewer specialised rehabilitation sites per capita than the rest of Health Mid-Norway. The two examples show how difficult it is to make savings that do not frame patients and add them to More and Romesdal. The latest development in the matter is that the company has decided to reduce the crew by 130 years. It is totally unrealistic to believe that this can be carried out without harming the patient supply or adding it. The Minister of Health has been careful to stress that he is the top responsible for health policy here in the country, but on direct questions whether he will intervene against cuts that frame the patient supply in Møre and Romsdal, he is hiding behind the health service.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e3297	One of the major problems with the health enterprise model is that there are important changes in hospital provision without trust in either the population, among local politicians or among professionals. For example, it is clear in the process that is now taking place at the Helgelands Hospital. An external resource group has recommended that today’s three hospitals be replaced by one hospital at Mo i Rana. This report has received strong criticism from professionals. Among other things, 20 trustees for hospital staff in Lake Sandness and Lake Mosjøen have reported a breach of the main agreement because the employees have not been involved. The warning shows that 17 meetings were held between the external resource group and two hospital staff. Staff representatives were excluded from attending the meetings and the minutes were not published until monthly thereafter. Svein Arne Monsen, district chief of emergency medicine and surgery at the Sandness Lake Hospital, resigned his position in protest against what he refers to as a politically unclean game. He describes a situation in which the local leaders of the Sandness Lake and Lake Mosque hospitals have been excluded from the process, where closed meetings have been held between the company management and the consultant company Deloitte, and where the board of health care companies have been presented with a decision base with major errors. If these descriptions are correct, the Minister of Health should be concerned. When the State Council has received direct questions in the main hall about this, it is as if he believes that this is how hospital planning is going to take place. Does he not dare make up his own mind in the matter? Instead, he pushes the regional health agency ahead of him. Also, state councils do not think anything about the content of hospital services in Helgeland, and many are concerned that there should only be one hospital with a maternity ward and full-fledged emergency facilities between Namsos and Bodø.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e3305	The mandate of the Helgelands Hospital states that the company is to investigate an alternative with an emergency hospital and a large emergency hospital. It has rightly raised concerns about the planning of an a-hospital and a b-hospital in the region, where the smallest hospital has neither birth or emergency surgery. The Health Minister answers this concern by creating false security. On the one hand, he says to Rana Blade that an emergency hospital may have both emergency surgery and the maternity ward, while on the other hand he will not guarantee that an alternative is investigated where two hospitals have these offers. It is extremely serious when we see that the external resource group interprets the mandate so that two full hospitals are not a real alternative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e3308	I have some comments on what has been said in the debate. When it comes to the government's referral to the National Health and Hospital Plan, and that he was governing, the Council of State can thank the opposition for, for the national health and health plan provided by the government, would not have secured either Narvik or Tynset – then it would be quite up to the leaders to decide whether there should be emergency surgery there or not. It was the opposition that came up with a tightening of. So until what has been said about what we're proposing is to take it back to the way it was before the state took over. No, then one has to read what we're actually proposing. We suggest something other than what was the case when the county had it. Firstly, we say that it should still be state ownership. We say that it should be combined with a governing national health and hospital plan where the Stortinget is involved and takes responsibility for the major priorities, including structure, and we have said that we need to get elected members of the local government when one settles them regionally. They must control within the budget, national requirements for waiting lists and quality, just as elected representatives control the care of the elderly, the school, etc. There's nothing more special about that. But one gets into the popular government, which is actually basically important in this case, which is the biggest criticism that is against the health practice model today, and which none of the other parties, except SV and Red, answer in this debate. We are some with the Working Party on a lot in health policy, among others. a non-outsourcing, a non-introduction of neutral VAT, a reduction in framework funding, but we disagree on how to manage and hire and organise Norwegian hospitals, and we disagree when it comes to managing corporate governance. We want popular administration of hospitals. Then we also disagree as to whether it would be better to get political competence into the health care system, i.e. because of politicians who are not responsible for the people in elections. We'll warn you about that. It's deceiving the people to believe that it's political governance. There I actually agree with Minister of Health Höie. That investment has increased since 2001 — of course they have, but that is because we have given much more money to hospitals. It's not because of the health promotion model, it's more in spite of him. Cut in waiting times was about. Yes, the government has introduced a new way of counting the number of people on the waiting list, where one now gets another queue. Now it is queue for evaluation, not queue for processing.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e3323	I have a few corrections, perhaps most of them to the record. There have been some claims here that I choose to respond to. First to Kjersti Toppe, who says that the Workers' Party believes that there is only sub-funding that poses challenges in hospitals. That is not true – neither in the setting nor in my five-minute post. That kind of strawman argumentation may not give the debate that much, so it was good to hear that the representative Toppe corrected himself in the last post. So to the representative Bruun-Gundersen, who said that the government had introduced free hospital choice. Nor is that true, because free hospital choice was introduced by the Workers’ Party in 2001. Finally, I would like to point out the following: The Stortinget asked for local management as a general rule in the country's hospital. The Storting asked that functions be moved out to the smaller emergency hospitals to secure the subject and recruitment. The National Council's own selection to look at the model, the Women's Country Committee, recommended primary health competence in the boards to ensure better interaction with municipalities. I can't see that any of this has been followed up by the Council of State, so who controls the hospitals obviously means something about how democratic this model of governance actually is.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e3334	With today's proposal, the Center Party will lift hospitals into the future. Health South-East is an enterprise I want to bring forward, and underneath it we have the Hospital Inland, which is facing extreme changes. Heathmarks and landings shall be grouped together in a new state. Kongsvinger Hospital has moved to Ahus. Municipalities stay away from the new Inland State, but potentially still see the Hospital Inland as a treatment site. The thawed hospital shall remain and cooperate with the Health Centre on Patients. Hospitals shall be closed and a new major hospital shall be built. The local medical centre shall be further developed. No one else has been given such major changes to the hospital structure, and yet we have few political decisions and little hit to influence the development of the Hospital Inland. Management works for professionalism. Nevertheless, I believe that user representatives and trustees are given enormous responsibility to those they represent, in order to raise issues of change and development at the hospital. Popular governance should enter. The interaction model was an important political issue, and the decentralisation of the services that can be decentralised is the cross-political consensus. At the same time, health enterprises should not involve elected management, but the budgets they relate to are under popular governance. This is not a matter of concern. Patients and users should be able to take responsibility and vote — through elections — in terms of their quality of life and health to such an extent. In case of emergency, all personnel, materials and materials are involved – regardless of where they are socked. Education and recruitment are part of the political debate. The premises for hospitals, the prehospital services and the specialist health services are managed politically. Another result of corporate governance is the ongoing hospital planning of Oslo University Hospital, where Health South-East wants to lay down Ullevål Hospital for the benefit of new buildings on a narrow plot at Gaustad. This process has resulted in a cost-effective plan that, according to the hospital emergency medical profession, will weaken emergency services and preparedness both locally, regionally and nationally. Oslo University Hospital is a regional hospital for about half the population of Norway, for 2.5 million people. The expansion of Aker and Gaustad will be the largest hospital expansion of the time, about 50 billion. kr. According to Health South-East, building plans in Oslo could lead to a reduction in economic space over the loan period of 25 years. These are big, heavy decisions that are taken without the participation and influence of elected representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e3345	I want to take the word a little bit from where I dropped it. It is clear that we see that the situation in Health More and Romesdal shows clear signs that there is a need for a new model to manage the financing of hospitals. Responsibility for removing or increasing important hospital services must be clearly relocated to elected politicians. We can't have it so that one has to cut the patient supply in order to afford to build entirely necessary hospital buildings in the future. It is our suggestion that a National Hospital Plan takes back the power of the Stortinget, and that one suggest that the Stortinget allows the necessary crowns to be spent, something like the NTP when a building road, and that one then brings the necessary crowns to operation. Then it is the county council and politicians who can manage this and be elected through elections – as well as the professional community. What's also important is that you get a decent rent, which involves renting in both trades, personnel and economics. To get this in place, I think it's important to be able to get it right and secure, where both they add and patients don't have to go and worry about how much they're going to save in a health care establishment so that you can afford to build hospitals. As it is today, it is at least unsustainable, when both added and patients around the country are concerned about what kind of services you can expect to have left. It's not a good way to run specialist health services.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e3354	The truth is that this government's hospital policy leaves to local and regional health companies to decide whether or not to have emergency surgery in local hospitals and whether or not to have a maternity ward. This is far from the Health Policy Council Höie promised before he entered the government. Then he would give power over the hospitals of the Stortinget at the expense of what he himself called the faceless bureaucrats of the regional health companies. The centre party does not want faceless bureaucrats to centralise emergency preparedness and food supply.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e3361	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e3377	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to three rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e3386	The Committee has examined representative proposals for measures to strengthen the medical service. From the vote we can see that the proposal is rejected by the majority, so I'm going to focus on minority proposals. The legislative act has an important role to play in the security of citizens. It shall be easy to contact the medical officer when you are anxious for the health of yourself and others. There is a concern that medical care has lost too much of its original function as an emergency medical emergency service. Better manning, good prioritisation tools, good cooperation with decision-makers and access to call-out vehicles are actions we in the Workers' Party believe will strengthen preparedness and provide a better offer to the sickest patients. Good daytime availability by the fixed doctor is also a necessary step to raise medical alerts’ alerts. A plan for the further development of fixed medical care is necessary. The Labour Party believes that the permanent medical action plan notified in 2020 will also be an action plan to strengthen medical care as an emergency medical service. The GMP is general medical practice. However, with a pressured fixed medical system that is constantly being imposed on more new tasks, it is time to look at other ways of ensuring good medical competence than through prescriptions to prescribers. Good competence is best ensured through good organisation that facilitates good professional practice. Then the doctors will be able to attract good professionals. There's a lot of good medical work going on around the country, but the coincidences are still too much. As a patient or relative, you should know that you will receive the necessary medical attention. Many municipalities today need to cooperate in order to ensure a high-quality medical care service for the population, while at the same time centralising medical care services means that parts of the population are given a longer route to the nearest medical care centre. It is essential that medical-professional premises form the basis for mergers, and the consequences of centralisation must always be carefully assessed. The population is given a false security if centralisation is done on the wrong premises. To date, the political will to do this has not been great enough. The working party is concerned that the function of the medical services as emergency medical services is weakened if no changes are made for the future. With that, I would like to promote the proposal of the minority in which the Labour Party is involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e3403	The representative of Ingvild Kjerkol has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e3408	It is widely agreed that medical care should be part of general health care in the municipalities. It takes care of the need for health care of the population when permanent medical services are closed and a good medical care service is of great importance to emergency care when it refers to approx. 300,000 patients for hospitalisation as immediate help. OECD figures show that we have good emergency medical preparedness in Norway. Intermunicipal medical services are currently the dominant form of medical care organisation. Intercommunal medical guards provide good opportunities for larger crews, wider trade unions and reduced watch loads for doctors. The 2015 report of the Emergency Committee is clear that medical care should be better dimensioned and staffed. During the hearing of this NOU, the hearing bodies paid little attention to the proposal to prescribe medical duty travel time. Since Norway is a long-term country with large local and regional differences, I believe that healthcare companies and municipalities need to find solutions together. A number of measures have already been put in place to strengthen emergency preparedness in the medical services. The emergency medical code from 2015 led to the setting of competence requirements for municipal medical care, as opposed to the previous one. An action plan for the general medical service shall also be submitted in spring 2020. The Directorate for Health sends out proposals for guidance to the medical services and proposals for quality indicators for the service. The development of quality objectives and national indicators for medical care will also be an important contribution to strengthening the sector. Sunnfjord and Outer Sogn Medical Watch District and the Molde/Romsdals Region Medical Watch District will test models of inter-municipal cooperation, committed cooperation between primary and specialist health services and the use of modern communication solutions. I think these pilot projects will give us new insights into how we can better organise medical care. We're all concerned about what can provide the best solutions for the population. I believe that the sum of the above measures will lead to better solutions rather than regulatoryly setting absolute travel time requirements.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e3423	Medical care must be part of the general health care of the municipalities. The impression of the emergency selection, in NOU 215: 17, was that the medical officer was becoming a weak service in the emergency medical chain. The selection meant that it was unfortunate if evolution continued in the same track. They were concerned that a medical officer had to be a nudist service in the municipality, and not just serve as an evening medical office. The emergency selection meant that one had to raise the quality of the medical guards and reduce the differences in the supply. Attention was also paid to measures that could contribute to the recruitment of medical staff. Several students have shown that with longer travel distances to the doctor’s watch, the use of a medical watch goes down. This is the core of the proposal of the Centre Party. The decrease also applies to the use of the time-critical and potentially life-threatening conditions — red response — almost as much as to less time-critical conditions. A study of 315 municipalities in the country showed that an increased travel distance of 50 km resulted in about 50 pst. reduction in the number of consultations, telephone consultations and medical visits to the medical department. The centre party believes that the knowledge of reduced use of the medical guard at a travel distance of more than 50 km must be considered in the design of the service. The emergency selection also showed that the medical service must be dimensioned and better manned. They proposed to introduce a national requirement in the regulation of 90 pst. of the population in each medical care district shall have a maximum of 40 minutes travel time to the nearest medical care station and that 95 pst. the population shall have a maximum travel time of 60 minutes. The requirement could be called a dimensional requirement, because it should have meaning for the dimensioning of medical care services, for both location, staffing and organisation. This requirement would lead to shorter travel time for residents in areas where there is today a great distance and a long journey time for medical staff. Today, there are many intercommunal medical guards. We think they have to be organized so that lizards can move out of serious events, and that they are organized so that the most possible inhabitants have an acceptable travel time for medical staff. The consequences of our proposal would be that some municipalities would have to merge on new and smaller medical wards, or that existing medical wards would establish a satellite station or a rear guard in another district. Such a maximum travel time target must be achieved at the same time as other measures to improve recruitment and to allow medical care to be planned to be included in regulated working time.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e3434	Would the representative like to make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e3439	Yes, if the suggestions have not been taken up, I will take them up.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e3444	The representative Kjersti Toppe has then taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e3449	Medical care is a key element of the emergency medical service outside the hospital. At the same time, it is an integral part of the general medical service. As mentioned in my letter to the Stortinget, the planned action plan for general medical care will also include medical care. We are now in the process of following up on the proposals of the Emergency Committee, among others. the preparation of a medical guard pilot in two locations in the country. A central element of the pilots is the establishment of medical watch satellites in the peripheral zone of the major medical guard districts, with staff from home health care or the ambulance service. Video consultation between satellite and medical staff in the medical centre may be used if necessary. Such a model will increase the availability of medical care for patients with a longer travel path to medical care than most other citizens have. I expect the pilots' experience to contribute to new ideas on how to ensure good medical care in the future. The Emergency Committee proposed to introduce specific requirements for medical care travel time. A consequence of such a proposal — as the proposers also point out — will be the establishment of several smaller, intermunicipal medical wards. This will require more doctors in a fixed medical system that is already under strong pressure, rather than making better use of other health professionals and employing digital solutions, which are tested in the medical watch pilot. The imposition of strict requirements on medical competence or resources in medical care may lead to further centralisation of the services, with the closure of medical care districts in order to meet the recruitment challenges. Large parts of the municipal sector and especially small and peripheral municipalities clearly reported on this in the hearing of the emergency committee's proposal and in the hearing of changes to the emergency medical regulation last winter. Now we're going to re-examine the emergency medical code. During the summer we will send a proposal to consult on some changes, where we, among other things, will consider amending the rear-guard provisions. At the same time, we would like to propose amending the medical welfare regulations, so that doctors in the main medical centre of the medical guard pilot can trigger the rate of video consultation. Good preparedness is important for those in need of emergency assistance. In September 2015, the number 116117 was introduced as a national telephone number to the medical care centre. The Acute Medicine Regulation lays down, inter alia: to facilitate the necessary communication between medical and AMK centres. I will continue to work to strengthen medical care, but I don't think more stringent instructions, such as reducing the local authorities' room for action, are the best way to do this. Until there are Norwegian municipalities for different. Many conditions are best resolved locally and in cooperation with the health business concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e3466	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e3472	We go into a period of holiday settlement, and what you know is that the municipalities that are already struggling with the fixed coverage need temporary workers. What is the overview of which municipalities have the greatest challenges in meeting their medical needs?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e3477	We do not have a complete overview of the municipalities in this area, which is a municipal responsibility, but on which the representative is involved, there is reason to believe that the municipalities that initially have challenges in recruiting permanent posts will also have challenges in this area. That's why it's so important, all the work we're doing now, together with the Medical Association and the KS, to improve the situation in the firmness area, while capturing concerns from municipalities related to the summer settlement with some of the skills requirements that have been set. Therefore, as announced earlier, it will be corrected before the summer, so that the municipalities can deal with it and plan correctly.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e3482	We've had a lot of discussions here about the system and the crisis that's there. But it's the same bodies that are fixed, which are also medically guarded – at least it should be, so that we don't get so much temporary use in the medical care system. When we discussed a representative proposal from the Central Party last year, we got several speeches for a proposal in which we asked the government to come back to the Stortinget with a separate case about measures to strengthen the medical care system. I think it would have been a particularly useful suggestion to get from the government, but unfortunately we do not see that it is being followed up. I would like to ask if the reason for a failure to comply with the decision to raise this issue, and what the Council of State actually sees for itself of measures to strengthen the medical services.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e3491	As the representative is in the right place, the medical officer and the fixed medical system are very dependent on each other, and we have also been very clear to the Stortinget that, in the light of the process we now have in tripartite cooperation with the KS and the Medical Association, and the evaluation we are now making of the fixed medical system, an action plan for that scheme will be drawn up. As I have also said, a medical officer – ensuring medical care – will become part of that action plan, while, as I have also notified the Stortinget, we are now launching several pilots to try out other models to organise medical services after, in order to contribute to, among other things. to put in place new technologies to ensure better coverage in areas facing remote challenges and to launch pilots on them.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e3496	Governments use as an argument against our proposal that one in the audience was not so concerned about this. It's a subliminal argument, because when we propose response times for ambulances, he used as an argument against us that this did not suggest the selection. The Supreme Courts were very concerned about this, so this is advocating argument. Does the Council of State think it's all right that people in the districts with over an hour's travel time to a doctor still have it like this? Does the Council not see the need for some districts to have a rear guard system, at least at night, or for a satellite station to be established if there are very large medical wards? Does not see the state council value of securing people a reasonable distance to the medical service, or is he only busy with... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e3503	Well, that's also why we're doing the concrete work on pilots to try out models that are just doing this. However, in our opinion, the committee's proposal for this was not a good one, because it would only increase the pressure on an already pressed set-up scheme and also did not mean thinking about new models or using new technologies, which is what we have chosen to set pilots in motion. So it's quite right that the sample didn't propose to prescribe the response time at the ambulance service, and it was also such that it wasn't unilaterally supported by the hearing bodies to what's the central party's view of that area, on the contrary, so it's a slightly distorted representation of the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e3510	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e3528	There is an overall committee which agrees that the Ministry of Health and Welfare is authorised to make changes to the promises of regional health companies, municipalities and social security contributions for medical care, psychological assistance and physiotherapy as of 1 July 2019. The changes will be made in the light of negotiations with the Norwegian Medical Association, the Norwegian Psychological Association, the Norwegian Physiotherapy Association, the Norwegian Manual Therapy Association and the Association of Private Practising Physiotherapists. Negotiations with these organisations have not yet been concluded, so the government will return to Stortinget with proposals for any changes in the promise. Although the minority has its own comment, there is an overall committee that supports this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e3537	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e3553	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is Lene Wagslid. The rapporteur is not present in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e3564	It was a bit unexpected, I was going to start by thanking the case spokesperson for the article. But then he gets to come a little later in the debate. I would like to refer you to the Council's letter of reply. For the Workers' Party, we support the assessments provided by the State Council. I would like to stress that for the Labour Party, there is a clear expectation and belief that the government must actively work for an international solution. This is a follow-up if we think that criminal prosecution of war criminals is the most important thing. We also believe that Norway should actively seek to find solutions to which there is agreement, with Kurdish and other authorities it confirms. The dynamics in this matter imply that a non-controversial conclusion should not be drawn, except to state that there must be a clear objective for Norwegian authorities to prosecute Norwegian citizens suspected of having our war criminals. It is also a matter of self-order that Norway complies with its obligations under international law. Norwegian citizens who have been associated with IS and return to Norway are to be punished under Norwegian law. The PST threat assessment for 2019 knows its members well, and I will refer to parts of it, as we have mentioned in the vote: ‘Despite the weakening of ISIL’s capacity to inspire, some European countries continue to experience a significant threat of terrorism and a certain increase in radicalisation. This is particularly true of countries that have a history of large extreme Islamic environments and where old environments and networks are still active. In 2019, many foreign fighters and other terrorist convictions will also be released from prison in Europe. Several of these have operational experience in conflict areas, and many will continue to be radicalised. They are therefore expected to have a negative impact on the threat picture in Europe in the coming years.’» In this context, I would like to refer to a proposal put forward by the Labour Party in 2015, which suggested that an experience summary of the challenges faced by individuals for ideological terrorism should lead to the exercise and addition of their rights and opportunities to participate in change. We refer to the review of the suggestions in the configuration. Together with SV, the Labour Party believes that it is still important to carry out such an experience evaluation, which the right-wing party voted against in 2015. I refer you to the proposal: ‘The government is asking the government to summarise the experience of settlement challenges related to prisoners convicted of ideological terrorism and to return to the Storting in an appropriate manner with the results of the review.’ It is important that criminal services are banned from dealing with potential war criminals and repatriates from Syria and Iraq. I take up the proposal from the Labour Party and SV and look forward to the right of the post of the case spokesperson afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e3591	The representative, Lene Wagslid, has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e3596	I am sorry that I was not present when the handling of the matter started. I would like to begin by thanking the Committee on Cooperation in this matter, which is a representative proposal from the SV, and which contains three proposals. One is about asking the government to help identify people with Norwegian citizenship who may be suspected of war crimes. The second is to ask the government to follow up the United Nations' request that suspected war criminals be punished in the respective countries where they have citizenship. The third is to ask the government to ensure that prosecution authorities have sufficient resources to give priority to the prosecution of Norwegian citizens suspected of war crimes in Syria and Iraq. The majority of the Committee proposes to reject these proposals. We also show that the government has been clear that it will not initiate an active process to persecute Norwegian citizens suspected of war crimes in Syria and Iraq, but only punish those who come to Norway on their own. The majority also show that those who come to Norway on their own and who have been associated with IS or other organisations will be punishable in Norway and that we have a good framework for punishing them. Among other things, In 2016, a change in the law made it possible to punish those who have been part of an armed force abroad, and we also adopted it in this Chamber for approx. two weeks ago several new homes, including: on the recommendation of previous UN resolutions, which make travel for terrorist purposes illegal. In addition, several of the parties in the Committee refer to the work now being done on setting up an international tribunal to prosecute persons, irrespective of their country of origin, who have participated in this type of war crimes in Syria and Iraq. From that point of view, it is proposed that this proposal for a representative be rejected. That said, there has also been an additional proposal, which the representative, Mr Wagzlid, referred to in his statement. The Right Party and the Progressive Party in the Committee have opposed that proposal. Although it is a proposal with a good intention, we believe that the intention and desire, namely that the follow-up of those convicted of extremism should be done in a good way in prison and so that their attitudes do not get infected with others, is well taken care of today. The Directorate of Criminal Welfare, KDI, participates in something called the Radicalisation Awareness Network, where you continuously share that kind of experience to ensure that this is the case. In addition, there are their own radicalisation coordinators, and there are their own guides to prevent this. So even if the intention is good, it may be more appropriate to use time not to carry out such an evaluation at this stage, but rather to focus on the measures. I also want to add that what we have witnessed in recent years, with several thousand people from different countries who have traveled to the Middle East to join brutal terrorist organizations like IS, and also others, is something we as a civilized society together with the entire international world must take seriously. What we've seen in Syria and Iraq is one of the most brutal things we've witnessed, and it's scary that even people born and raised here in our own country join the kind of organizations that IS represents. Those people who have participated in ISIS and who have committed war crimes deserve a punishment – they deserve a punishment that also means that no one will follow in their footsteps in the future. We believe that it is primarily where these crimes are committed, the prosecution should happen, but because it is an international problem, and because this is a challenge we cannot ignore will arise again in other areas of conflict, I think the work on an international criminal tribunal is a good and important measure, which I am pleased that the government has a forward-looking attitude to, and I hope that this work will also produce results.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e3623	SV has promoted this matter because we are startled by what we have seen in Syria and Iraq in recent years. We believe war criminals should be punished. Don't let them go free. They must be severely punished. There shall be no port of refuge or port of discharge where war criminals may hide. Judicial settlements against war criminals shall not be insecure – it shall be non-judicial. With this as the principal starting point, I was very surprised when, earlier this winter, we received political signals from the government and some of the other parties about little willingness to prosecute suspected war criminals. It was introduced as a principle of volunteering. In other words, war criminals were to be punished only if they came to Norway voluntarily. There are lawyers in the Chamber here, and I really have to ask them if they can support the principle of such a legal order. Are you actually supposed to be based on volunteering when it comes to punishing suspected criminals? It was also mentioned in the debate – especially by representatives of the Progress Party – that it was dangerous to prosecute war criminals in Norway because they were dangerous people. The counter-argument to it is that it must be much more dangerous that they go free where they are. It is relatively safe to have a criminal locked inside a prison. We hear that it is constantly referred to local processes, both in Syria and in Iraq, and to the need for an international tribunal. I'll be right back to it. The summary of what I would like to call a disclaimer from the Norwegian Government about this is quite remarkable. From the point of view of a Norwegian war criminal, it must be very convenient to be a Norwegian war criminal on the Guard of the Advance Party in the Ministry of Justice and Defence, because then the likelihood of being punished is very small. It is absolutely essential that we make a scheme in which we arrange for suspected war criminals to have a trial in which they are also prosecuted in Norway. Therefore, Norway has to assume its own responsibility in this respect. It is in line with the Geneva Convention and several Security Council resolutions. We have also been explicitly asked by the United Nations to do this in this process. I'll say a little bit about why it's not possible to push either the local processes or the international trial processes ahead of it. Reference is made to the fact that war criminals should be punished in Iraq and Syria. In Iraq and Syria, there have been no functioning legal states for 30–40–50 years. These have been dictatorships. Find the defense lawyer or judge in Iraq or Syria who has experience in a court-martial! You can't find that lawyer. If Norway is to agree that there are to be credible and legal mechanisms for these war criminals, it is not possible to carry out these processes there. With regard to the wish for an international tribunal, I fully agree with that. It is an ideal situation if, after every war, we manage to establish an international court tribunal, so that all actors can be investigated if they have done something wrong. In this war Norway has been a war actor. It has also been the United States and Russia. What we know from experience in recent years is that it is impossible to set up an international tribunal, because it has to be set down by the UN Security Council, and the vetomaks will not accept such a solution. The United States and Russia have never been in the history of an international tribunal in which they themselves have been a war actor. So it just doesn't make sense. To believe that there can be an international tribunal in this area is the same as believing in Christmas. What we're facing here is an attempt to shift responsibility away. In this situation, Norway is the only legal State that can properly, thoroughly and properly settle with the Norwegian suspected war criminals in this area. Fortunately, the Norwegian police have realised this. That is why they have issued arrest warrants on many of them, and the police cooperate with the international police to apprehend them. They will then be transported home to Norway, if necessary. The only solution is that we're doing this in Norway. With that I put forward the suggestions SV is behind alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e3646	The representative Petter Eide has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e3651	Initially, I would like to point out that the fight against impunity for serious international crimes is at the heart of Norwegian foreign policy, and that the government prioritises its efforts to ensure effective, independent and credible criminal prosecution of the massive violations that have taken place in Syria and Iraq. I note that there is a broad political consensus on the basic position in the proposal for a representative to facilitate the prosecution of suspected war criminals in Syria and Iraq. The government is working both nationally and internationally to contribute to such prosecution and supports, among other things. The UN mechanisms for obtaining evidence and assisting in the investigation of the most serious international crimes committed in Syria and Iraq. The identification of persons who may be suspected of crimes in Syria and Iraq is carried out in extensive cooperation both nationally and internationally, as well as between police organisations, intelligence agencies and security organisations. For example, the security service of the police has: Today, 13 Norwegian foreign fighters in Syria and Iraq are internationally wanted for apprehension. Kripos also obtains information about any war crimes committed by foreign fighters. I therefore fully agree with the draft representative that Norway must give priority to the prosecution of these cases. I refer to the priority of investigating and rectifying serious crime, such as war crimes, both in the budget proposal for 2019 and in the Ministry of Justice and Defence's letter of assignment to the Riksadvokaten, the Police Security Service and the Police Directorate. The prioritisation also follows the objectives and guidelines of the Advocate General to the Public Prosecutor’s Office. I am absolutely sure that the Norwegian police and prosecution authorities, including the PST and Kripos, who have the special responsibility for this area, are following up these cases with a full focus on Norway contributing to preventing the impunity of all those who have contributed to or participated in the atrocities. The Norwegian criminal system provides a good framework for criminal prosecution against Norwegian citizens who have entered into terrorist alliances, participated in, recruited or economically or otherwise supported ISIL, or were involved in the massive acts committed in Syria and Iraq. Several persons have already been convicted by Norwegian courts and the prosecution authority assesses whether there are grounds for initiating investigations against foreign fighters suspected of being in the conflict area and if they subsequently return to Norway. My disagreement with the proposers concerns the issue of Norway actively bringing back IS warriors at this time. As I pointed out in my reply to the Great Council on 23 May this year on these questions, it is preferable that the IS Wars be prosecuted in the countries where they have committed their criminal acts. Every State has the right to prosecute crimes committed within its territory, and it also has clear investigative, documentary and resource benefits. The government is now taking part in an international debate with a view to achieving good solutions, and there is an increasing momentum to reach an international solution where people who have travelled to Syria and Iraq and who have participated in IS can be prosecuted. A number of countries now see the need for an international solution to criminal prosecution in the region where the crimes have actually occurred. This work supports Norway. The establishment of an international criminal court is one of several possibilities that are internationally possible and that now need to be discussed. The Norwegian authorities attended a meeting on this subject in Stockholm on 3 June. The government is initially open to explore the possibility of establishing a specific international criminal court for the prosecution of serious crimes committed in Iraq and Syria. I myself participated in discussions on Sweden's initiatives in connection with participation in the EU Council meeting on Justice and Home Affairs in Luxembourg on 7 June. I just want to end by saying that, in my view, it is best for these IS wars to be prosecuted in their own region, where they are most close to both the victims and the evidence.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e3670	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e3675	I'm glad that there is a broad majority in the Storting today when it comes to Norway not only supporting an international solution, but that we want to do an active work to find an international solution to deal with the situation with Norwegian citizens who have been associated with IS and who may be suspected of war crimes. As the Council of State said in its speech, there has been a meeting in Sweden. The councils themselves have shared in conversations. It's very positive. My question is: how will the Council of State, together with the Minister of Foreign Affairs, actively contribute to the implementation of such an international solution?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e3683	In fact, we in Norway have a lot of expertise in international criminal courts, and what is natural now is that experts around Europe come together and discuss how to implement something like this. But it's not just a separate criminal court that's up to date. It may also be relevant with other types of solutions, such as: contribute with expertise to the national authorities of Iraq, which can assist in the implementation of the criminal prosecution of the IS wars in a humane and good manner. This is also part of the mechanisms that are already there. We have a UN programme to help Iraqi authorities, including: to obtain evidence. But this is evidence that Iraqi authorities are not allowed to use in cases where there is a death penalty.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e3690	I'll go straight to the case. We hear that the Minister of Justice is pushing the international processes ahead. I have to ask him very specifically: can he point to an international tribunal set up by the UN Security Council in connection with a war in which the United States and Russia have participated? My second question is: can he guarantee that a judicial process in Syria and Iraq satisfies Norwegian legal security principles?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e3697	Now it is the case that the representative Eide is asking about, not the main problem in this case, because the main problem in the matter we are now discussing is the IS warriors. It is not right, as the representative Eide referred to from the pulpit, that none of these are being prosecuted in the region to which they belong. It's a criminal prosecution that's going on. Norway is also actively involved in the provision of evidence, through UN mechanisms. However, it is also important – as the representative Eide points out – to ensure that these criminal prosecutions take place within the framework of human rights, and Norway wants to contribute to this. Therefore, it is also important that Norway helps us to get good regional solutions down there, where the victims who have been subjected to these atrocities and who can testify that they have become so.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e3704	I did not get an answer to any of my questions, so I just have to repeat them. An international tribunal is set up by the United Nations Security Council, where the veto acts of the United States and Russia are sitting. They've both been involved in the war against IS, so my question is: are there any historical examples that, in the context of a war in which the United States and Russia have participated, they've also approved an international court tribunal?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e3709	There are many examples of good solutions for criminal courts. I understand that the representative Eide has a different interest in the matter than necessarily having to take the IS wars, but I think that is beyond this debate. What this debate is about is how to have a system that can prosecute IS for the cruel crimes they have committed. What I hear from Eite's question is that he probably also believes that there are other nations that have committed war crimes, but that's a completely different discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e3714	I record and conclude that the Minister of Justice cannot document one single historical example of an international tribunal set up by the UN Security Council in which the United States and Russia have been involved – that they have accepted it. In other words, this should illustrate my main point, and it is that the probability of getting such a thing in place is disappearing small – please, please, little. The Minister of Justice suggests that I have other motives. Yeah, definitely. I believe that the idea of setting up an international court settlement must be that all parties to a war can be investigated for possible war crimes. Can you imagine a legal order anywhere in any country where there is only one actor, one group that is going to be exposed to this? Should not an international tribunal actually concern all those who have participated in the war?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e3721	It is a little difficult to see where the representative Eide really wants to go, but at least I can't see that he solves his problems by actively bringing back the IS warriors to Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e3726	It's quite obvious where I want to go. I want the Minister of Justice to take responsibility for the Norwegian IS wars. I hear he's not taking responsibility for the Norwegian IS wars. I hear that he refers to international processes that are most likely not going to happen, and then he pushes this in front of him because he does not want to take that responsibility. Then I have to come back to another part of my question, because the Council of State also adheres to a kind of principle of volunteering. It is quite new in the Norwegian legal order that criminals should be prosecuted if they meet voluntarily at the police station! So that's what you're adding up here in the case of the Norwegian IS Wars. Does the Council of State mean that we should have a legal order in the case of war criminals who are to be based on volunteering?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e3733	I don't think the representative Eide actually came with me when I had my post, because here there's no volunteer line. It's not right to say that you have to show up at the police station in order to be prosecuted. PST has called for a number of IS warriors internationally. As soon as they move into Europe, they will be able to be apprehended, but it is not certain that they will then be handed over to Norway. Norwegian police do not have jurisdiction in Iraq and Syria. That is why we are helping to provide evidence through the UN programme, so that if local authorities there, national authorities there, want to prosecute, as we believe is right, they will have access to evidence collected through the UN if, for example, they do. refrain from exercising the death penalty. There are a number of judges being executed down there, so that the IS wars are prosecuted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e3740	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e3747	I have been sitting in the office and followed the debate. First of all, I was very surprised, almost shocked, at how short it appears to be, and how few representatives take part in such an important debate. There has been a long debate in the media about what will happen to the IS wars, and so there are so few Members of this House who are taking part in such an important debate. It has surprised me tremendously. It's not my field, but I'm a common citizen of this country, and I actually care about what's going on with the IS wars. We'll be in the media. We see what's happening. I see Europe is fambling. A lot of countries are fambling. Germany has many foreign warriors. They look at France, which is a famished country, which cannot make up its own mind. I see that Macedonia may have been the first to receive seven foreign warriors, last August – little Macedonia – and then we sit here and famble. What I don't understand is that you don't see the danger because there are some of these that find their own ways back. I don't get it. Then we have no control, no identity. We have no idea how they will come back, but they may be happy in Norwegian fjords and mountains and Norwegian food – I have no idea. But they can come back, and they may have bad intentions. With a prosecution in Norway, we have control. We have control of the identity, we have control of the prosecution, and we have a case law in Norway that we can borrow. I am surprised, almost shocked, that no Norwegian government powers – by the government – are addressing this issue. I must be allowed to say that, and I almost express it as a private Member of Parliament, as a member of the Norwegian State. The fact that no one else takes hold of this is surprising.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e3759	I wanted to take the word one more time, because although we disagree with this proposal, and although we disagree that the right way to persecute IS warriors is active to go to Syria and Iraq and bring them home, it does not mean that we do not take seriously the situation we have seen with foreign warriors in the Middle East. On the contrary, the greatest evidence is that Norway has taken the situation seriously, that military competence and military people in the Middle East have also been contributed, precisely to combat what has been the most brutal organization we have ever seen in the world for decades, with the massacre of both minorities and other groups. But the discussion about how to best prosecute them, whether to do it together, internationally, or to assist the countries where these persons are located is a completely different discussion, and we have said that we do not consider it most appropriate to bring people back to their homes actively, but rather to find an international solution where they are jointly prosecuted by those who have participated. There are thousands of people from dozens of countries who have participated as foreign fighters on behalf of IS and other organisations in Iraq and Syria. Here, international solutions are needed to make it equal to treatment, and there are also examples to be provided to ensure that in the future, there will be no foreign warriors going out to participate in international war operations.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e3766	I think that is reason to recall that the situation in Syria and Iraq is still not completely closed. It is not the case that the IS is completely suppressed. There's a chaotic situation there now. Think about whether we should actively start bringing home IS women and IS warriors: the evidence situation we now have may be good enough to get people convicted of participation in IS, which has a penalty framework of six years, but it's not that you necessarily have enough evidence to punish them for what they actually have done. For the evidence of what they've really done, it's going to take time to get there. It's not long since we saw a VG article where some of the jesidi women stood up and told their story. There's a lot of such living evidence in this area. They must be allowed to explain in a court of law what has happened to them, and it is almost impossible for it to happen in Europe, thousands of miles away. So here, international solutions are needed to ensure that women who have been exposed to atrocities get justice – and not that IS warriors and IS women may be picked up in Norway and get a low sentence and thus escape the punishment for those they have actually done.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e3773	With the risk of harassing people by prolonging the debate, I just have to answer some of the things that have come up here at the end. The proposal that we should facilitate the prosecution of the Norwegian IS wars in Norway: it is not a Norwegian process – it is an international process. It is enshrined in the Geneva Convention and in several UN Security Council resolutions. We have been asked by the UN to participate in an international effort to prosecute our own war criminals. It's an international process. The UN asks us to do that because they don't believe that it will be an international tribunal – we don't have any good historical experience with an international tribunal where the major powers have had such strong interests. It's completely diffuse and highly unrealistic. Nor do we have any faith that Syria and Iraq should be able to carry out legal processes that satisfy what we would think are requirements for how to punish people in Norway. These countries do not have that kind of experience. I almost have to ask the Minister of Justice: what will he do if a Norwegian IS warrior is sentenced to death in Syria by al-Assad? Let's start the same resources that we had with Moland and French. That's the kind of problem we're facing here -- states that don't have a legal order that satisfies what we think is our demands. That's based on that. We're not going to have an international process. The rule of law in Iraq and Syria is not satisfactory. That is why the United Nations is asking us as part of an international effort – this is for the representative Gulati – to take part in an international effort to punish our own war criminals in Norway. It's not about ‘taking them home’ – the expression used – that's not what we're talking about here. We're talking about making sure that the police do more of what they've already started to do. This is about identifying suspected war criminals, we're going to be issued arrest warrants on them. In cooperation with Interpol and the local police in Syria and Iraq, persons shall be apprehended. When they are apprehended down there, Norwegian police will be contacted for a possible transfer to Norway. The judicial process shall be in Norway. It's police work this is about. To the phrase "get them home": it is about international police work, for which we are now going to facilitate, and which our proposal here is going to give a very clear signal that we want to be implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e3786	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e3803	In recent years, we have seen many examples of forest fires in Europe. We've seen that life has been lost, we've seen large, uncontrolled fires in our neighboring country, and we've also experienced some of this within our own borders. It has taught us something, and it is that there is potential for improvement in European cooperation on these kinds of disasters. The EU has done something about that. The matter we are dealing with today improves this cooperation, and I think that is essential both for us and for our good neighbours in Europe. This matter came legally late to Stortinget. This was mainly due to the curlyness of the EU system. That is why I would particularly like to thank the Committee for its very constructive cooperation in speeding up the matter. I think it follows a good tradition we have across the board, that when these kinds of situations occur, we don't try to strain each other at first opportunity, but we work together in good spirit. If I'm not completely wrong, this is the last thing we have before the summer, so I also want to take the opportunity to wish the committee a good summer. I read in the Nettavisen that we apparently spend 101 days on vacation together. I may think it'll be possible in front of the beach, but no matter what you choose to spend this luxury vacation on, I want everyone a good summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e3812	Now the Online Newspaper had forgotten that there is a meeting on September 30, so one should not trust it entirely in a reading there.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e3817	Norway has been part of European civil protection cooperation since 1982, and cooperation is the main legal basis in the EU for civil disaster response and other social security and preparedness work. Cooperation is also an important pillar of Norwegian social security and preparedness work. The background for us to deal with this matter today is primarily the many forest fires that were held in southern Europe in 2017. It turned out in this period that the cooperation, as it has been now, was not a good enough instrument to help turn out forest fires where there was a need. In March this year, the EU therefore decided to make changes to the existing cooperation. The inclusion of the amending decision in the EEA Agreement will result in an additional economic obligation for Norway of approximately 44.2 million. kr for the years 2019 and 2020. In order to ensure Norwegian participation in the 2019 scheme, it is envisaged that the consent of the Storting will be obtained before a decision is taken in the EEA Committee. The decision of the EEA Joint Committee is expected in July 2019. That is why I would like to thank the Presidency most sincerely for facilitating the rapid handling of this important matter. The main changes are the strengthening of the civil protection reserve and the establishment of the RescEU. In addition, there are increasing expectations of prevention work in the Member States. The civil protection reserve is a voluntary European reserve consisting of the existing capacities of the participating countries, e.g.: forest fire helicopters and aeroplanes. As of 15 March this year, the emergency reserve amounted to 106 different capacities, of which Norway has one reported capacity, the Emergency Medical Team. The civil protection reserve also existed before the changes in the EU, but with the amendments adopted, a number of simplifications are introduced in the use of the emergency reserve. The reported capacities will also be able to receive a higher level of funding for adaptation, repairs and operational operations than before. The new element of the scheme is the establishment of the RescEU. The RescEU shall be a reserve of resources that can be used in crisis situations in Member States when national capacities and the civil protection reserve are not sufficient. It is intended in particular for particularly long-term or rare events where national capacity is exhausted or limited. The resources of the resourceEU shall be financed mainly through cooperation and resources may be made available by the Member State in close dialogue with the EU. The RescEU will not be a substitute for expectations of Member States to have their own response capacities within known threats and crisis scenarios. In addition to the above mentioned resources, the initial priority is the capacity of chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear events and emergency medical preparedness as part of the scheme. In the summer of 2018, as is well known, the Scandinavian countries were also exposed to extensive forest fires. Norway then assessed the use of the EU Civil Protection Mechanism and Sweden received assistance from the scheme. During the forest fires earlier this year, Norway also assessed calling for EU assistance. I believe that the cooperation that we get into through the EEA Agreement should continue to be one of the pillars of Norwegian preparedness. With an ever-changing threat picture, both man-made and natural, I believe that cooperation at European level is what is socio-economically correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e3836	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e3848	The size is then ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e3857	A total of 20 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1-3, by Eirik Sivertsen, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 4, from Eirik Sivertsen on behalf of the Workers' Party proposed no. 5-8, by Heidi Greni on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposed no. 9 and 10, by Heidi Greni on behalf of the Centre Party proposed no. 11-18, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposed no. 19 and 20, from the Bears of Moxnes on behalf of Red. Proposal No. 19 from Red. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked by the government to increase the growth of total municipal income by between 8 and 9 billion in the draft government budget for 2020. SEK in addition to the government proposal in Prop. 113 S [[2018-2019]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e3893	Proposal No. 20, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the transfer of financial resources to the county municipalities in 2020 for the administration of the county roads is based on what has actually been used for the whole of the state road administration, as well as on the necessary conversion costs incurred by the county municipalities.’ The Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left have already supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e3908	Proposal No. 11-18, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a new municipal property tax model based on the equity value of the property, with mandatory deductions and protection schemes such as deferred tax for ownership transfer.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government of the State budget for 2020 is asked to strengthen the funding of cultural schools and to propose ways of implementing a maximum price regime.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government in its draft government budget for 2020 to increase the growth of total municipal income by between 5 and 5.5 billion. in addition to the government's proposal in Prop. 113 S [[2018–2019]] Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The Government of the State budget for 2020 requests that tenders for county ferry and boat services should be based on zero-emission technology and that the income system of the counties below ensures the financing of the necessary conversion to zero-emission solutions in all public transport.’;» Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asked to change the funding mechanism for the crisis centres so that the grant again becomes a model of 80 pst. State funding and 20 pst. municipal funding.’» Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government is still asking to earmark grants to psychologists in municipal health and care services in order to ensure an adequate supply and contribution to day-time activities for residents with dementia.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government is asked to maintain grants for the training of apprentices, trainees’ letter of practice and apprentices with special needs, grants for career guidance and early school support through increased teacher effort of 1 to 10. Steps.’;» Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide different models to increase its co-financing of the facility with particularly resource-intensive services and to extend the scheme to citizens over 67 years of age.’;» Red has already given its support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e3963	Proposal No. Ten, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for secure e-choice solutions in the polling room for the blind and partially syndicated in future municipal/communities elections and size selection.’ Red is in favour of the proposal. The Socialist Left has already received subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e3980	Proposal No. 9 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asking for a 4.2 billion increase in the income of the local government sector. SEK in addition to the government’s proposal in the Municipal Proposition 2020. Within the extended frame, a minimum of 1 billion. crowns are allocated to a maintenance programme for the county roads.» The Socialist Left has already received subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e3998	Proposal No. 5-8, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the regional centre grant to be phased out, since it is not in line with the Storting decision that the income system should not be used for the continuation of the municipal reform.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to amend the scheme of urban and urban development grants in order to make them a mark-up to the municipalities qualifying for the grant, without deductions from all municipalities.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government in the State budget for 2020 to increase subsidies for decentralised higher education both in the sector itself and through its own financial transfers to the county municipalities.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that all relevant costs of resource-intensive services are recognised as part of the municipal component’.» Red has already given its support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e4032	Proposal No. Four, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the government budget for 2020 to increase the income of the municipal sector by between 2.5 and 3 billion. in addition to the government’s proposal in the Municipal Proposition 2020.’;» The Socialist Left and Red have every subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e4049	Proposal No. 2, from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for secure e-election solutions for the blind and partially syndicated in future municipal/community elections and decision-making.’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e4064	Proposal No. 1 and 3 from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to establish a new and larger trial of voting rights for 16-year-olds and to include the largest cities in the pilot scheme.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: «The government is asked to maintain grants for regional measures for the development of business environments and for access to competences outside the local authority framework.» Red has already given its support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e4113	First, there will be a vote on II, III and IV. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e4129	President! I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e4134	Then it'll be fixed. The recommendation from the Committee was then rejected by 51 votes to 48. It's getting wet over I.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e4150	A total of four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Stein Erik Lauvås on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Willfred Nordlund on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposed no. 3 and 4, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 3 and 4 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the Municipality of Oslo to compromise the Y-block, on the basis of further work on the Governmental Quarter.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the project will meet the BREEAM Excellence certification requirements for a new government quarter.’ Red has already given its support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e4186	Proposal No. 2, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for an increase in the land standard to provide permanent office space for all employees and to provide a sufficient number of cell offices in a new government quarter.’ Red is in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e4203	Proposal No. 1, from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for proposals on how the new government quarter will become a model project for larger buildings, both in terms of choice of materials, energy use and energy production.’ Red is in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e4245	It's going to be wet over I and III. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e4259	There will be a vote on II and IV.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e4273	A total of five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Stein Erik Lauvås on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party proposed no. 2 and 3, by Willfred Nordlund on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 4, from Willfred Nordlund on behalf of the Centerpartiet proposal No 5, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 5, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a reduction in the climate impact of construction materials in the future construction regulations.’ Red is in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e4305	Proposal No. Four, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to consider the requirement to reduce the climate load of construction materials in the future construction technical regulation.’ The Socialist Left and Red have every subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e4322	Proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the government to return to Stortinget by the end of 2019 with proposals for economic incentives for the use of climate-friendly materials that are available in larger construction projects.’ Red is in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e4346	Alternatively, between the recommendation of the Committee and the proposal No. 2 and 3 from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget by the end of 2019 with proposals for financial incentives for the use of wood in major construction projects.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a follow-up to the Forest and Wood Industries Strategy – a green switch-over driver, including better evidence of characteristics and environmental benefits of wood-based products.’ Red has already given its support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e4482	It's going to be past VII first. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e4496	It's getting so wet over I-VI.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e4510	During the debate, Mona Fagerås has presented a proposal on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government asks the government to submit proposals to amend Section 11 of the Student Cooperation Act so that communication is subject to target law, or otherwise to ensure that student relations are obliged to use both new Norwegian and bookkeeping.» Alternatively, this proposal and the recommendation of the Committee shall be rejected. Red is in favour of the proposal. The Committee had recommended that the Storting should do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e4540	A total of five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1 and 2, by Nina Sandberg on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposed no. 3 and 4, from Nina Sandberg on behalf of the Labour Party, proposal No 5, from Marit Knutsdatter Strand on behalf of the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 5, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to change the classification of teacher training in the funding system in order to meet the costs of the scale and content of practical training.’; Red is in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e4569	Proposal No. 3 and 4 from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to facilitate better and more effective teacher training by following the increased expectations of the quality and intensity of education in teacher training, through: a. increased study intensity through several hours spent in the studies overall, broken down by organised learning activities and self-study, with the aim of increasing the average time spent in the studies in teacher training to at least the average for students elsewhere; b. to follow up the training provided by the educational institutions to ensure that the teachers are trained in practical teaching and that the teachers meet in the classroom; c. to follow-up the continuous work of educational institutions with measures to improve cooperation with the working life of teacher students in education; d. strengthening the competence of students, teacher training and practical schools in the use of digital tools and learning methods.’;» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for follow-up of teacher training in order to develop a good national system for the sharing of quality and research-based teaching and learning arrangements for students.’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e4599	Proposal No. 1 and 2, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to amend the regulations for primary school teachers’ training in such a way that the scope of the pedagogical and pupil knowledge subject is to be at least 60 points of study excluding a module on religion, life vision and ethics.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to investigate – with a view to introducing – the national framework for teacher training practices, in close dialogue with the sector and the field of practice.’ Red has already given its support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e4630	The Labour Party and Red have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e4646	A total of three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1 and 2, by Tuva Moflag on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party, and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 3, from Kjersti Top on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 3, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to set up a National Priority Council on a model from Sweden to expand the priority debate and to ensure that it is more about access than access to new medicinal products.’ Red is in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e4679	Alternatively, between the recommendation of the Committee and the proposal No. 1 and 2, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government through its dialogue with regional health professionals for the adoption of its decision-making forum on secrecy and for the publication of the conclusions of the State Medicines Agency’s food-benefit assessments.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure full transparency on the basis of the decision-making framework for health priorities, including the additional cost per quality-adjusted year of life by introducing an action, the budgetary implications by introducing an action and the practice of the serious criterion.’ Red has already given its support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e4707	A total of three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1 and 2, from Kjersti Top on behalf of the Party of Central and Socialist Left proposal No 3, from the Bears Moxnes on behalf of Red First of all, there will be a vote on proposal No. 3 from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The budget asks the Government to promote the necessary legislative changes to ensure that all nurses and pharmacists, as well as all employees in the State, are covered by the occupational pension scheme irrespective of the rate of employment.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left have already supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e4735	President! I voted wrong!
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e4740	That's corrected. There will be 52 voices against and 47 voices for the Red proposal. The proposal is therefore not adopted. The Committee had recommended that the Storting should do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e4752	Alternatively, between the recommendation of the Committee and the proposal No. 1 and 2 from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate and promote legislative proposals to replace the Health Business Act by a new Health Management Act, which explores how the counties can take over the operation of hospitals, introduce popular governance, local and practical management and employee participation.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate and propose a new financing model for hospitals, where large hospital investments are prioritised by the Stortinget in the National Health and Hospital Plan and fully financed by the State budget and where hospitals are covered by the same budgetary and accounting system as municipalities and county municipalities.’ Red has already given its support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e4781	A total of three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Ingvild Kjerkol on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposed no. 2 and 3, from Kjersti Top on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 2 and 3 from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for an action plan for permanent medical services, notified in 2020, to also become an action plan to strengthen the medical services as emergency medical services.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for measures to encourage municipalities to facilitate medical care and to be part of a regulated working time.’ Red has already given its support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e4821	Alternatively, between the recommendation of the Committee and proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asking the government to introduce maximum travel time for medical staff in line with proposals in NOU 2015:17. ‘... Red is in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e4860	A total of four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Lene Vågslid on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party proposed no. 2-4, from Petter Eide on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 1, from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to summarise the experience of settlement challenges related to prisoners convicted of ideological terrorism and to return to the Storting in an appropriate manner with the results of the review.’ Red is in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e4893	Alternatively, between the recommendation of the Committee and the proposal No. 2-4, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to contribute to the identification of persons with Norwegian citizenship who may be suspected of war crimes, or involved in war crimes, in Syria/Iraq.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to facilitate the follow-up to the request of the United Nations Regional Coordinator for suspected war criminals to be punished in the respective countries in which they have their citizenship.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the prosecution authorities have sufficient resources to give priority to the prosecution of Norwegian citizens suspected of war crimes in Syria/Iraq.’ Red has already given its support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-18.ana.ud261e4947	There is no record available. Thus, today's maps are processed. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
