ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e83	The called representative of the South Trondelag, Lill Harriet Sandaune, is now taking the seat. Two permit applications are available: by Mr Björn Moxnes, on welfare leave in days 6 and 7 June; from 7 June to 20 June, by the Group of the Party of European Socialists, on the leave of the representative, Mr Erlend Wiborg, On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Oslo: Seher Aydar For Eastfold County: Bears Laabak
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e126	Seher Aydar is present and will take the seat. The representative of Espen Barth Eide will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e133	On behalf of the representatives of Terje Aasland, Runar Seestad, Hege Haukeland Liadal and myself, I have the honour to present a proposal for a representative on a power policy that builds Norwegian industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e138	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting continues, if necessary, beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e158	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that there be no loopholes, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e167	I would like to start by thanking the Committee for a good process, and of course also the Department of the Council of State. It has been a pleasure to be rapporteur for a matter like this. The amendments to the Swedish Social Security Act deal with two elements: the right to child benefit while staying abroad, where an adjustment has been made to the legal text to ensure that it is in accordance with the legislator's intention, and changes in the number of social security weeks for care allowance and parental pension at premature births. The latter involves, inter alia: that in cases where the birth occurs before the end of week 32 of the maternity period, the period of maternity leave is extended. The period of benefit in the proposal is extended by the number of weeks and days from the actual date of birth to the estimated date of the future, when the birth occurs before the week of pregnancy 33. We know that having a premature child can be a part of some extra challenges. Children born too early often need extensive care. It will therefore be of great importance to the children and families concerned that we now make these clarifications about the right to care and parental leave. As a mother, I have learned how important it is for a newborn baby to get body contact and the proximity and care it gives. For children born before week 33, this need is often much greater. It's also a little special to think about that while we're sitting in this room and passing this case, there's probably also some newly-baked parents on the child's intensity on Ullevål with a premature baby on the chest, skin against the skin in an hour-by-hour, day-by-day, precisely because it's so crucial for the development and health of the little human being. Maybe they're in a used stressless, seemingly retired, but still with their heads full of worries because they know there's a lot of uncertainty ahead of them. That's why it's so good that with this unanimous proposal, these parents are going to get rid of, in addition to all the other concerns about the child's health, worrying about parental death. What we're doing here today will give better space for everything it can take to be a premature child and being a parent of a premature child. An extension of the parental leave period allows the child to be provided with the needs it may often have beyond its first year of life. This means that the child may have more time to rest before it may enter the nursery. It may give parents a room for action to give the child a quiet start in the nursery, in line with the development of the child, or to allow time to organise the nursery or to gather the facilities in the cases where necessary. As you know, we in the Christian People's Party are concerned with flexibility for the families of children, and that is exactly what an overall committee is in favour of here at the Stortinget today. We give increased flexibility to the premature children and to their parents.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e184	In SV, we have long arranged that parents of premature babies should not lose parental leave and parental leave. That is why we are pleased that there will be an extension that the Storting will now adopt. The Norwegian parental leave scheme is probably the best and most generous in the world. It's good for the children, who get to bond care with both parents, it's good for the father, who gets to spend time with the children from the very first day, and it's good for the mother, who both gets a good leave period and can get back to work afterwards. But the parental leave is still not perfect. And the fact that parents of prematurely born children are subjected to a curtailment has been one of the unresolved problems. That's why we're happy today. But we're not quite satisfied. With this week 32 extension proposed by the government, parents of children born in weeks 33 to 37 will continue to be curtailed. That is why I would like to briefly explain the SV's solution to this matter here in the Chamber today. We ask the Government to put forward proposals to: ‘extend the parental leave for parents having pre-term infants to also apply to children born in week 33 to 37, which means that the period of benefit will be extended for the number of weeks for which they would otherwise have been entitled if the child was born until the date of birth’. Similarly, when the child is born, parents shall have the same good parental leave. It's important for parents, and it's important for children. It is only reasonable to make this change altogether, and therefore I ask the Stortinget to take the step completely out and adopt this proposal that SV has now promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e202	The representative Freddy André Supreme Court has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e207	The proposal on changes in the parental leave period at prematurity is about making everyday life easier and the system more equitable for families who are at a very difficult and vulnerable stage. Having children leads to a number of concerns in itself, but having a premature child can mean weeks and months of insecurity and helplessness. The wake-ups are heavy for all newly-baked parents, but lying awake in the hospital, uncertain as to whether the tiny baby is going to be okay, is something quite different. Premature children get a far tougher start in life than others, and they like to need extra help at the beginning. The government gives these children and their parents a little of the extra support they need, as we now extend the parental parental leave period to premature births. If the child is born before the end of the 32nd week of pregnancy, the period of benefit is extended by the same number of weeks or days as the child was born before the date of the term. That means that children who did not develop finished in their stomachs can take back what they lost, at mom and dad's after birth. This is part of the red and modern family policy you get in a government with the Left in. We have also received an impact for a record long paper in the new three-part parental leave. We will give all children a good start to life and a safe connection with their closest caregivers. That means that parents with premature babies can have to stay home with them longer, and that means that father should have equal rights and the same opportunity as mother to be home with the child in the first time. I would also like to remind you that last year we extended the parental leave period for twin and multiple parents. Twin parents taking leave of 100 pst. pay, is now 17 weeks longer leave than they had a year ago. Parents who have more than two children in one birth receive a double period of benefit. That is, both parents can stay home all year long and support each other in the care tasks. Thus, the support schemes for newly-backed families have never been better, and since Father's rights are also respected, the scheme is also modern and forward-looking. In the future, there are still some games. We want to ensure that father is equal to the right of exit as a mother, and there is still another way to go to many employers when it comes to facilitating breast-feeding when new mothers return to work. We're concerned that the parental leave is going to be generous and equal, because we think that children are better off with safe and equal care people who have time to be at home with them. Vulnerable children who have a tough start shall have time and quiet to recover, and parents who have many children at a time shall have two adults present at the same time, longer. Children who are so lucky to have two parents will get to bond with both from the start, whether it's mom and dad, mom and mom or dad. It is the government's policy, and it is, like the Left, on the side of the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e222	Today, the Storting may adopt a change in the parental pension scheme that will make life easier for many families who experience premature childbirth. The Ministry has presented a proposal for changes in the rules, which means that parents who have premature children are given an extended period of parental leave. Thus they can be longer at home with their children. This is a change that will be of great help to the weakest children and their parents. It is fun that a breakthrough that the Christian People's Party received in the budget negotiations for the 2019 budget was now presented and reached unanimous agreement in the committee. We're happy about that. When a child is born to term, it has been prepared for nine months to leave mother's stomach and grasp life on its own. But the children who are born prematurely have not had the time they need. The body is not prepared to live outside of Mother's life, and many of the children need close follow-up in hospitals. When the child is discharged, the parental agents begin to tick. But those children who have been born many weeks too early may have different health problems for the first time. Often a premature child has not had the same development as a child born to term one year after birth. The first life must be used for development as in other children before birth. Many parents therefore feel that their premature one-year-old is not ready for kindergarten in the same way as other one-year-olds, even though kindergartens provide good and professional follow-up when needed. Therefore, we suggest that the period of parental leave be extended when children are born before the week 33. These children are born so early that many of them at one-year-old age will be in a place other than non-prematurary children in terms of development. They are now given the opportunity to approach the level of development of other one-year-olds before the age of parental death is over and many of them start in kindergarten. I am pleased that a joint committee is behind the proposal. The changes will help make life easier for premature children and their parents. A small comment on how to resolve the SV's proposal to extend this until week 37: It is a proposal Stortinget can of course discuss, but I would like to make it clear that it is a proposal that will cost 131 million. kr. My proposal is that in any case this should be taken into account in the annual budgetary procedures. Not least are the children born before week 33, who have a tougher start to life. I am also pleased that the Committee supports the amendments to the Child Protection Act which are also here. Through the changes, we ensure that the rule of child welfare while living abroad can still be interpreted as today, so that what the Stortinget has previously intended will continue to be the intention and follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e237	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e253	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e269	The previous authorisation to require an exhaustive police record was suspended by the repeal of the criminal record law and associated criminal record regulation in 2014. This was an unintended consequence of the implementation of the Police Register Act. The purpose of this proposition is to continue the previous legal situation by amending the Child Protection Act. The Committee supports the proposed law in the proposal and points out that under the new law on public registration § 10-2, first paragraph, information so-called confidentiality-related may be provided to public authorities authorised to obtain information from the public register without prejudice to the obligation of professional secrecy. The Committee would like to stress by amending the Child Protection Act that public authorities which have child protection functions should also be able to obtain information from the Public Register Act. The proposition also follows up the request of Stortinget during the treatment of Prop. 12 S for 2016-2017, Step-up plan against violence and assault [[2017-2021]] When the matter comes back to the Committee, it is proposed that, following that amendment, the adjudicating authorities should require supplementary police certification for the appointment of heads of state. Children are vulnerable individuals, and it is the responsibility of the authorities to ensure that those responsible for children or working with children have flawless conduct. This proposition has not led to much debate in the committee, nor does the right have any additional comments on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e282	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e298	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to three rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e307	First, I would like to thank the Committee for a good cooperation on this matter, and also thank the proposer for having traveled, once again, this team in the main hall. The Committee shares the concerns of the proposer and supports the desirability of measures to reduce the pressure and stress experienced by young people in everyday life. Last year, the Stortinget dealt with two representative proposals on the same subject, one from the Workers' Party and the other from the SV. We believe that the right-wing government is, and was, too passive in finding concrete measures for this, because the body pressure has changed. When I was young, in the 1970s, the struggle for ownership stood for my own body. Women threw the bra, we were proud of our body. No one was supposed to mess with it, the body was ours. Nor would the advertising industry change our ownership of our own body. What made women gradually viewed as independent individuals and good enough as they were was that the policy was backed up by what women thought was important. Today, it is not obvious that one can control one’s own body. Today, the threat to both boys and girls is the demand of advertising and fashion industries: become like us! Being like us is a dangerous rule, whether it comes from religious assemblies, from youth groups or from the beauty industry. In today's society, seven out of ten changes in appearance, and there's a connection between advertising, body pressure and mental health. The digital everyday life in which the kids live, in particular, reinforces this context. Research highlights the relationship between body pressure and poor mental health. Psychiatric disorders are a public health problem. In concrete terms with regard to the proposals that have been made in this matter, we refer to the proposals that the Workers' Party has made in the past, but the Workers' Party supports the intention of proposal No. 2, on the marketing of non-cosmetic industries, because the advertising industry puts so considerable pressure on young people. It builds up under a more unrealistic bodyside. Nevertheless, we believe it is important to ensure that the necessary cosmetic medical treatment is not affected by restrictions on any regulation, and that the persons in need of such treatment should be provided with the necessary information and knowledge. That is why we have proposed an alternative proposal for paragraph 2, and we also support proposal No. 4th@item: inlistbox In doing so, I take up the Labour Party's proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e322	The representative, Kari Henriksen, takes up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e327	Being able to live and thrive in one's own body and self-skin is no matter what. Many youths who grow up today feel enormous body pressure. I agree with the author of the proposal that the authorities have a task and a role to play in protecting young people from external pressure that gives a very unnatural body pressure. It is not the first time that this committee has dealt with body pressure issues, nor is it the first time that measures are adopted to be implemented by the government. I am sure that the Council of State will come back with how these measures have been followed up by the government, and I look forward to hearing how this issue is being met also in the various departments. The proposer in the case promotes a number of proposals that have been put forward before, some of which have already been adopted or previously rejected by the family and cultural committee. I would like to comment on proposals from the minority, including: from the Workers' Party. The government plans to review the regulations on the marketing of cosmetic interventions. There are many cosmetic interventions for which there is open advertising today, without our control over whom the advertising is directed. It's very unfortunate, and that's why you agree. The government has also put in place measures to ensure more stringent handling of the marketing law by using the Consumer Ombudsman and the consumer supervision we have, to ensure that those who advertise on blogs or other platforms also comply with the marketing law. The majority would like to point out that the government has already implemented four of the proposals made by the proposer, including: to extend the powers of consumer supervision and to strengthen the means of combating illegal marketing. In addition, fees were imposed from 2018 on those who infringe the Marketing Act. We shall also provide larger subsidies to Consumer Protection so that they can respond more effectively to illegal marketing. This also applies, of course, to marketing aimed at children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e340	First of all, I would like to thank the representative Hulda Holtvedt for putting the search light on a problem that affects and affects many young people. I think everyone present here agrees that body pressure and unrealistic beauty ideals are a growing and serious social problem. Children and adolescents are exposed to unhealthy exposure that in turn affects their self-image and relationship to their own body and appearance. It is sad and worrying that young people develop mental disorders because they feel unable to live up to the so-called beauty ideal of the advertising industry, the blog world, reality series, etc. The central party supports the intention of the proposer and shares the concern, but does not believe that regulation alone can overcome this. Beauty and body pressure require continuous efforts at several levels, both individually and at community level. We politicians can adopt laws and rules to regulate behavior and take different measures. We will, and we will, among other things. by decisions taken in this Chamber a short time ago. But in addition, the clothing and fashion industry must also take responsibility, as well as the media, for example. large TV channels that bet on programs where young people and their bodies and looks play a bit of a big role, and magazines on the web and paper that choose to print reticent ads and lats with articles on how to get thinner and prettier, as well as cultivate celebrities with perfect exteriors. These industries have great power and influence. They have a great potential for improvement and should take more responsibility. I would therefore like to welcome with pleasure the new magazine «Well» next week, where retiring is not allowed, and where the goal is to show what girls and women are, not just claim or tell what women are and obviously should be. Social media and influencers and not least their advertisers influence the challenge with body pressure extra much. I therefore believe that strengthening the media-critical competence of young people is becoming very important in the future, and I am glad that there is a work going on for it in high school. I would also like to refer to the Committee's comments in the vote, which refers to the fact that in June 2018 the Stortinget dealt with a similar proposal by the Workers' Party and SV. I am pleased with all the decisions we then made, and that there is work going on in different areas, which means that the Central Party does not vote in favour of the proposals in the case today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e355	I would first like to thank the Green Party representative, who promoted this very important proposal, for this issue is ultimately about the right and freedom of young people and children to like themselves and to be themselves, free from pressure, stress and mental ill health. The problem is big. Seven of ten young girls say they want to change their own appearance. Wherever young people go, they are bombarded with photoshopped advertising, which shows a totally unrealistic and unattainable ideal of beauty. When I grew up, it was common for us to see this on billboards all around the city. It's pretty much still like that. Then came all the TV commercials. In addition, the generation that is growing up now gets it marketed and directed specifically towards them, on social media. There is almost no room for freedom from this aggressive marketing, which sends a very clear signal to all children and young people: you don't look pretty enough. It's the modest young people get every day, all around our cities, online, on TV channels and anywhere else where there are advertising spots. We have an industry that earns billions of dollars every year on the poor self-esteem of young people. I think that ethically speaking is completely reprehensible – first of all. In addition, it's bad for society because we know that there's a connection between reticence, i.e. photoshopping, advertising, body pressure and the poor mental health of young people. This affects public health in an entire generation, and therefore far stronger instruments are needed than we have seen so far. That is why SV promoted a representative proposal earlier, and then we – I am very happy about it – got an impact on many important demands that we have fought for a long time. I remember that in 2010 I joined the network against reticent advertising – I know that there are others in the hall who also attended that meeting – and we got that fight crowned with a victory at the end. It was big. We also support many of the proposals here and expect the Greens to take them up.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e368	Psychiatric disorders are a public health problem, including in the case of children and young people. One of the reasons is a sustained pressure from commercial actors that, through advertising and marketing, creates unrealistic body and beauty ideals. I am pleased that the committee says that measures to reduce the pressure and stress experienced by young people are desirable, and then the question is whether we put enough pressure on ourselves to take enough credit. One in five Norwegian 11-year-old girls feels thick – one in five. Half of the 15-year-old girls feel too thick, and that despite that only 9 pst. Norwegian girls are overweight at that age. Seven out of ten young people feel a pressure to look good or have a fine body, and the relationship between body pressure and poor mental health is well documented. Youth itself mentions advertising as an important source of body pressure, and it is not so strange, because youth encounters advertising wherever they go, on streets, on bus stops, in the media and on the Internet. Commercial actors serve to make young people feel bad. The beauty press triggers the body pressure. It is bad for the environment, but it is primarily bad for humans. We politicians are responsible for this. By regulating the advertising market more stringently, we can spare young people the pressure that creates poor self-esteem and, in the worst case, mental disorders. We believe that there is a need for more and stronger measures than is being taken so far. We ask the government to ensure that schools and kindergartens are free from product advertising. We are asking for a ban on the marketing of cosmetic surgery and a possible ban on the marketing of lubricants. Consumer supervision needs to be mandated to address a more severe breach of the Marketing Act Chapter 4 on the special protection of children and on the use of medically irresponsible body proportions in marketing. Not least, it is time to gain more knowledge about children and young people’s vulnerability to advertising. The mental health of young people has been eroded for far too long in the backs of the race for ever-increasing consumption. I take this up to voting our proposals with measures to reduce pressure and stress that young people experience in their everyday life related to their body and appearance, to their human dignity.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e381	The representative of Une Bastholm then mentioned the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e386	As it has been said from here, we were involved in the launch of a network called Youth against Retustert Advertising almost ten years ago. We invited young people to join in and mark reticent advertising because the politicians didn't. We had glues, posters and activists. In a short time, activists all over the country reported to the network, and it was supposed to show that we were going to write history. For us it wasn't just about noticing the advertisement; it was about taking up the fight against the beauty rule. Then there was a 16-year-old girl who sent us an e-mail, and I want to read it: I've been wandering around this planet for a long time with poor self-confidence. I've felt ugly, stupid and not least fat, precisely because of the perfect models I've seen on TV and on advertising posters, the ones with skin that glows, the hair that shines, the ones with slim bodies. I've been crying, and I've been weak. But now, at the time of writing, I was saved, and that because of their advertising. I felt struck at several of the points you mentioned. I want to start over. I don't know if I have confidence enough to be an activist and participate in an action, but I want to use great energy to dry out. Thank you so much. You have no idea how many girls and maybe boys you'll help. The fight against the beauty rule hit youth, just as they in the advertising had done every day. But this time we replaced the bad feeling with something completely different – a desire to change their own appearance was replaced with a desire to change the mechanisms that pressured them. Youth went into its own everyday life and wanted to change it. Youth did what politicians never did for them. We live in a world of enormous body hysteria that still reaches new heights. Every day we're told what we're going to look like. It destroys young people's relationship with their own body, appearance, self-confidence and self-image. For fashion and beauty, this is a big business. They sell the lie that if someone just buys this product or fixes this part of your body, it will be fine. If people are never satisfied with their own looks, they will constantly buy new products to try to be as pretty as the lady in advertising – that is, we have an entire industry that relies on large parts of its economy to give young people poor self-confidence. Then it is not useful to clapp yourself on the shoulder and be satisfied. Now the government has to choose its side. We need a government that's on the side of youth, rather than on the Billion Industry, a billion-dollar industry that makes money to tell us that we're never good enough. Let youth escape the pressure of appearance.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e400	I am very pleased with this debate and that it is such an overall committee. This is a field that is very important, and as many people have been involved, studies show that the state is quite dramatic. They show, for example: That nine out of ten 16-year-olds want to change their bodies. Seven out of ten young people experience pressure to have a fine body. Fortunately, research reports show at the same time that Norwegian youth are largely doing well, but that more and more young people report mental health disorders. Combating body pressure among young people is an important goal for the government, and it is clearly established in the Granavolden platform. The representative of Hulda Holtvedt has tabled eight proposals. Several of the proposals are covered by decisions taken last year by the Stortinget. I welcome the fact that the government is doing well to follow up the proposals. We are in the final phase of the draft consultation note on a change in the marketing law, which concerns the labelling of reticent advertising and marketing aimed at children. We have also taken initiatives on ethical guidelines against body pressure in social media, which representatives of the impact industry follow up, and which are soon completed. Then we have strengthened the Consumer Protection Agency's budget for 2019 by 6 million. kr, and in the letter of award, the Ministry has clarified that consumer supervision should give priority to supervisory tasks relating to the marketing of children and young people contributing to unwanted body pressure. The Training Act ensures that children and young people are not subjected to a marketing pressure while they are at school. I am sceptical that there is a change in the training law before the need for change is documented. I would also like to warn against the proposal to change the purpose of the Training Act in order to provide the law with a norm-critical starting point. The objective paragraph of the Training Act was adopted with effect from January 2009 following a wide consultation. All the parties on the Stortinget were behind the decision, and after what I'm familiar with, the purpose section also has broad support in the school sector. On behalf of the Ministry, the Swedish Consumer Research Institute (SIFO) examined in 2018 the kind of marketing directed at children in social media and the experience of children with such commercial content. In 2019, SIFO will build on its study from 2018, and I therefore believe that the proposal to acquire knowledge about children and advertising has already been well followed. An important measure to prevent body pressure is to reduce the marketing of both cosmetic injections and cosmetic surgery. The Ministry of Health and Health is currently looking at restrictions here. There are limited possibilities for prohibiting the placing on the market of lubricants. Slimicides are covered by a legislation on food which has been largely harmonised by EU legislation. But we are in the process of following up very important measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e418	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e423	I just wanted to use the opportunity, since the Council of State is here and we're talking about this important topic. It's true, as several speakers have said, that SV, together with several others a year ago, made a number of proposals. Then some decisions were made, which we are very pleased with. The councils were within part of the follow-up of this, but I would like to ask the council more about what he could say. We also have a decision to put in place that part of the mental alerting plan for young people is about body pressure. Governments did not mention it in their articles. How is the follow-up by the government to that request decision? Then I wonder how the Council of State sees fit to follow up the other request decisions that are being made to tighten the law more generally in terms of marketing aimed at children.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e430	I want to thank you for the important questions. When it comes to the specifics of the Ministry of Health, I cannot go into detail about it. What I know, as I also pointed out here, is that the Ministry of Health is doing well in following up the various decisions that the Stortinget has taken, and that my party was standing behind in its time. These are important proposals. Some of the things I've been concerned about in this field are cosmetic surgery, which I talked about in my post, and looking at tightening up there. As far as the representative pointed to, tightening up marketing, we are, as I said, in the interview with a consultation proposal. I hope we can get a change of laws in that field too, if not for long. It will be a reinforced oversight of unhealthy advertising aimed at children and young people. I think that's very important to counteract it. So I just want to add that we're going to get lifelong students into the curriculum at school. I think that can also be preventive and important to discuss these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e441	Thank you for the speech by the Council of State. Now the Council of State has not been in position for a very long time, but I'm very happy if he wants to be the Council of State that really took on an area that I know more representatives in the Chamber have worked a lot on, including youth politicians or youth representatives in different forums. I myself have been active in Press – Save Children Youth for many years, and we worked on this. It's been years, it's been an old debate, and it just hasn't been done enough. I would like to stress that this is great among children and young people. It's almost scary how common it is now among children and young people to talk about anxiety and depression and body pressure. But we adults have to follow up. If it is not to be an explicit part of the Training Act, I wonder: What does the Council of State see as the role of the school when the school is the big meeting place, where we ask children and young people to meet each day? What is the role of the school in ensuring that children and young people grow up with a much more diverse and healthy ideal than the market today provides from all sides?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e448	The President would like to stress that the question does not partly relate to the responsibility of the Council of State, but leaves it to the Council of State to answer the question if he wishes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e453	I have happened to be involved in promoting suggestions about lifelong learning in school, so it's a theme I've written for as a big-time representative, and I'm still busy with, so I can proudly answer that I think it will be very important. But that's not the answer to everything, so I believe in the good discussions that people were having. I think it was the representative from the Central Party who pointed to the importance of the children and youth’s own compass – to have it corrected against the reality created, which is just wrong. I think that the school can help, but I also think getting advertising that is right is also an important contribution. I've often said that when I was little, I compared myself to everyone in the class and everyone in Evje – Evje wasn't the largest place in the world, and is so far still not that – but today a person compares himself in a completely different way to the whole world, so the pressure is much bigger. That's why I'm glad that the same commitment I had as a youth politician to reticent advertising is actually now in the final phase. And I have great plans to be the Council of State that is presenting a bill that takes that seriously, and which is hopefully adopted in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e460	I also want to get into this with slimming agents, because it was a little unclear to me in the articles of the Council of State how the government sees fit to follow up. I have understood that there are provisions in the EEA Agreement because this is regulated as food, which makes us e.g. could not have imposed a prohibition. I believe the Council of State does. How, then, will you ensure that, for example, health effects are more evident, or how are children and young people protected from such advertising? It's generic advertising that goes out to everybody. And there's one of the challenges here, that the channels for advertising have become so many, and that the channels for targeted advertising have become very many, in part, also from abroad. So how does the government view protecting children and young people much more explicitly from the kind of advertising we can see very clearly has a body ideal as the starting point for its advertising press?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e465	There are several ways to go to reach that goal. As I was inside, we've been busy with the influences and the blogs etc. in order to ensure that the industry, and beyond them only, also has a responsibility, so that that mechanism, that self-control works well. They're also working on ethical guidelines, and hopefully they'll be done soon. I think that might be an important grip. Otherwise, as I was also in the room, it's reinforced the supervision of unhealthy advertising that's directed specifically at children and young people. There we have given more money and given a clear lead in the letter of commitment. So my goal is that just that will also help. So, as I said in my post, and as the representative has quite rightly understood, there are limited possibilities of imposing a ban related to that piece because of the EEA.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e474	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e481	I'm glad we're talking about this topic. I am deeply concerned that research shows the frailties of young people's mental health. Some of the causes of the problems are that there is an entire industry that serves to construct a far-off body ideal that makes young people feel bad. And this is not a problem that affects a few vulnerable young people. This is a structural social problem and a threat to the entire young generation. Fortunately, there are solutions, and we politicians can intervene and set limits on madness. Here it's always a question of how far we as politicians are going, of what is our responsibility, and what is the responsibility of the media, the responsibility of the advertising industry and the responsibility of the clothing store. It's so clearly comfortable to transfer responsibility to others, but I don't see how we can legitimize this in this serious matter that more or less affects virtually all young people. As the representative of the Supreme Court was inside, there are body pressure on more and more arenas in the cityscape, on the web and everywhere you stay – it's almost so you can't avoid it, even if you grow up on Evje, as Councillor Ropstad confirmed here in the city. I think the proposals we are dealing with today are good, and I am happy to vote for them. The SV shall vote for all of them. It will be a step in the right direction in a fight that we must fight further through other proposals in the Stortinget and in the municipalities ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e492	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e508	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to three rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e517	First, I would like to thank the proposers for their commitment to a weak and vulnerable group. I would also like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in this matter. In the last month, I have visited several crisis centres, among others. on Stord and in Florø. It's a very regrettable fact that there are so many who actually experience violence in close relationships. Many of those that are affected are usually groups that are already slightly exposed. There may be people with poor social networks, people with poor language skills, or people with challenges such as: psychiatry. We know that those who have drug problems often live a little bit on the side of the ordinary society. They may have social, medical or other mental challenges, and many of them are at several levels simply a vulnerable social group. People who are exposed to violence in close relationships may need most of all to be met as exactly who they are. And when you have drug problems as well, you might have an extra need for an organized offer. At the same time, we know that it is not necessarily lucky that people with drug problems live in the same areas of crisis centres as other users. Then I think first and foremost of the children who are there with their parents. I am very pleased that the government is already doing some of this work well. The reply letter from the Council of State to the Committee is also very well received, and it is now about that. two years ago, about the day, the time the councillor of Solvency Horne was in Molde and opened one of these exhibition windows that could become a model for the rest of the country. It is very good that the representatives support during the work that is well under way. I see that there is some argument that might indicate that this is something that is important to focus on. But that's also what you're going to do here, because this is specifically mentioned in the Granavolden platform. I would like to refer again to the letter of reply from the Council of State, where, on point-by-point, he is actually questioning all the proposals contained in the motion for a resolution No 8. Finally, I can say that a majority in the Committee believes it would be appropriate to await the current evaluation before any new action is taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e532	Let me first say that I have been working at the crisis centre as a volunteer for many years. A woman who is subjected to violence under the guise is one of us. These women are not an outnumbered class. There are women with high heels and stress cases, there are women who have lived in my street, there are women who have gone in my class or in the class of my children. Each of them is one of us, and they deserve a better offer. In Kristiansand they have a separate department for women with active intoxication. I have visited them, and they believe that it is necessary for these women to have access to the special competence of the workers at the crisis centres. What are we talking about? Well, we're talking about the centres having to be safe, we're talking about fences, that there has to be locks, that there has to be proper security. And there must be real contact with the police. For here come women who go with a violent alarm, and women who have a secret address. They're also going to have an offer if they're rushing. They escape from life-threatening partners, and believe me, the damage they can get into the crisis center is sometimes quite terrible. So they're very disappointed with the government's answer. I want to read a note that I'm jumping at, because the point of our proposal is that we want to give these women an equivalent offer. The goal and vision must be throughout the country, and they need action quite quickly. In fact, women who use drugs live all over Norway. Multiplicity writes: ‘The majority believe that there is in no way a proportion of crisis centres with their own offerings that should be the objective here. In fact, it could be problematic for other users of crisis centres if the different groups with needs are mixed without doing so in a proper way for all groups. Instead of focusing on the proportion of centres offering this group, attention should be paid to whether all users in this group receive the services they need.» Then I wonder if this is the answer to a vulnerable group – that they can get a different offer, that we don't have room for them in that shelter called crisis center, but that we have something else. We believe that it is the wrong way to go. Women with intoxication shall have an equivalent offer. I will deal with the proposals that the Labour Party is on.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e550	The representative, Kari Henriksen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e555	It is unacceptable if women and men with drug problems are deprioritised and thus not given the help they need when they are entitled to treatment and help in a critical and difficult situation. It is up to the municipalities to ensure that crisis centres are available to all those who need them. Municipalities shall also comply with the requirements of the Crisis Centres Act. It also applies to those with drug problems. I would like to praise the Workers' Party for addressing an important issue. We're very concerned about people with drug problems. That is why we have also strengthened this in the Action Plan on Drugs and Mental Health for municipalities. In the case of crisis centres in individual municipalities, intermunicipal cooperation is common, precisely because some municipalities are too small. Some municipalities also have few users with drug problems. In 2016, a pilot project was launched in which crisis centres were transferred to municipalities. What we're saying in the notes is that we want to see the evaluation of this before we make changes to the law. There are many crisis centres that work very well, and there are many crisis centres that have agreements with, among other things. Specialised health services and drug services in municipalities. An example of this is the Centre for Crisis and Competence in Ringerich – and note that they call themselves centres of expertise. There is a great inter-municipal cooperation, which is just concerned with drug problems and, not least, mental challenges in the wake of drug problems in men and women. I visited them three weeks ago. They say they've entered into cooperation with a lot of different agencies. They work interdisciplinaryly with problems related to drugs. This applies to the municipalities, to the specialist health services, and of course to the police. This shows that there are many centres that have drugs in focus and that you can use as a ‘best practice’ type. I think it's a little early that we here from Stortinget should oblige every centre to have that kind of competence. It is important to be able to work intermunicipally, and not least with the specialist health service. So I'm meeting the evaluation, to see if we're going to make changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e570	I would like to thank Kari Henriksen and others from the Workers' Party for addressing an important topic, an important one. I find it very unfortunate and serious that the crisis centre statistics for 2017 show that too few crisis centres offer homes for women with drug problems. However, let me start by clarifying the Central Party's comment on page 2 of the statement, last paragraph, that the municipalities under the Crisis Centre Act 'are obliged to provide victims with additional problems in which there was an overall crisis centre offer'. At the same time, the legislation provides for municipalities to ‘assess individualisation requirements in each case’. It is quite correct and important that municipalities have the local autonomy to make the necessary assessments so that they can provide the best possible service to their inhabitants. This will, of course, also lead to situations where some groups may be deprived because others need to be prioritised, for example. immigrant women with young children. It is not unique, but a natural consequence of local democracy and the freedom of local authorities to make decisions that are closest to those affected. The variation and quality of services will therefore have to vary from municipality to municipality. However, it has not been said that services in municipalities cannot be significantly improved because it is simply unsustainable that violent women with drug problems do not get the help they are entitled to in a vulnerable and difficult life situation. The centre party therefore supports the proposers in large parts of the proposal. As regards proposal No: 1, where proposers want a change to the crisis centre law with an explicit clarification that violent women in active care “have their own free, low-threshold crisis centre offering that is individually organised”: I stress that the Centre Party supports the need to improve the crisis centre offer to this group. However, we believe that if a clarification is to be included, as the proposers wish, it should be considered whether more vulnerable groups should be defined in the law. Furthermore, the Centre has promoted its own alternative proposal for proposal No. 2 which I think should definitely be supported by several parties. What is the reason for not voting for the government to assess ‘whether the definition of ‘close relations’ in the crisis centre law is sufficiently comprehensive and whether it should be clarified in the purpose paragraph of the law what is meant by close relations’? Is it e.g. And the rascal? Finally, I would like to inform you that the Central Party will vote in favour of the proposals. Three, four, five. With that, I'll take up our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e587	The representative of Åslaug Sem-Jakobsen has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e592	I would also like to start by thanking the proposers and the representative, Mr Henriksen, for addressing an important issue. Since the crisis centre movement started up crisis centres around the country, we have had about 100,000 overnight stays at the Norwegian crisis centres. It says something about violence against women and violence in close relationships being a significant social problem, a structural challenge and a sign of still considerable inequality in power between women and men. We cannot call ourselves an equal country until we have solved this and we – in a non-profit world – no longer need to have crisis centres. But so far, we're doing that, and many of the hundreds of thousands who have been at a crisis centre since they were started, we can probably also expect to come from particularly vulnerable and vulnerable groups, for example. women with drug problems and additional challenges. It is important that, in our understanding of violence against women and gender inequality, we have a combined way of seeing this: that there can be more relationships that are involved, and that, as a matter of fact, one is oppressed or subjected in several ways at the same time. SV supports all the proposals put forward by the proposers in this matter. We agree with the Central Party's remark that there are several vulnerable groups, but I believe that there is no contradiction between that recognition and starting with at least taking one significant group. I just have to tell the government, which pushes the municipalities in front of me on this question, that I think it's getting too weak. This is a very critical offer. The representative, Mr. Örmen Johnsen, says this is a municipal responsibility. Yes, but this is really a basic need. These are vulnerable people. We cannot accept that there is no equivalent offer of this service in all municipalities. We had never done that with similar services. Why are we going to do this? Why are we going to do that exactly when it comes to these vulnerable women? I would like to remind the representatives of the government parties that we have a law for which this House is responsible. These proposals are about tightening that law, and then you can't try to push the municipalities in front of you, say it's a little early, and wait for the evaluation. It's been a long time since we did the conversion of the crisis centers. This has been evaluated well. We're really ready to make a raise for a particularly vulnerable group now.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e605	Violence and sexual abuse against women and children are a strong commitment to me and is something I have been working on for a long time, even when I was a member of the Parliament's Committee on Justice. It is good that we today have mutual political agreement that we must prevent violence and sexual abuse against both adults and children. That consensus is important for the field. I have visited several crisis centres and seen the invaluable efforts they are making to care for women, men and children who need help and support in a very critical life situation. Unfortunately, there are some groups who do not get the offer they need, at the country's crisis centres, among other things. persons in active care. I would therefore like to thank the representatives for addressing the situation of women with drug problems. This is a very vulnerable group, which has the right to protection against violence and abuse. Statistics show that some women with drug problems are rejected at crisis centres. This is not good, while there may be challenges for children and addicts living in the same place. In order to strengthen the provision of vulnerable groups, a pilot project carried out by Bufdir was launched in 2016. There, municipalities are trying out different models to provide better services for these groups. For example, this is a case in point. on cooperation agreements between crisis centres and other relevant helpdesks or the organisation of premises. A month ago, I visited the crisis center in Molde. I saw a modern building with sheltered housing units for vulnerable people who, for various reasons, cannot live with other families and children. It may be due to drug problems or mental disorders. Another challenge that this project is trying to solve is that many women in active drug use are not looking for crisis centres, despite the fact that this is a group with a high risk of violence. Therefore, an important part of the project is to explore how to encourage them to seek help. The Government Platform states that we will evaluate the system of transferring responsibility for crisis centres to municipalities and assess measures that ensure a good crisis centre offer. We're doing a great job. The provision of vulnerable groups, cooperation between crisis centres and health services, and the organisation of supply are key issues to be assessed. The goal is a good and comprehensive crisis centre offer for women, men and children who are exposed to violence in close relationships, regardless of their situation in life.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e620	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e626	I want to go back a little bit to the special competence, which Mrs. Johnsen was in, that the crisis centers have. If one imagines that this would have been another type of disease, e.g. Somatic illness, where a large number of people in the country did not have the necessary skills: what would the Council of State do if he had been the Health Council and experienced that many people in Norway had a vital need for help and did not get it, and there were skills that were actually available, but not too many enough women? If the Council of State had been Minister of Health, what would the Council of State have done?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e631	The President must entirely leave to the Council of State to decide whether he will respond to what he would do if he was a minister for another responsibility. Council of State Rupstad!
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e636	If I had been Minister of Health, I would probably have left to the Minister of Children and Family to solve the challenges associated with the crisis centres. The tempting answer is that one could choose to state it, so that it was not a municipal offer. As far as I remember, the government chose Stoltenberg, the red-green government, to make it a municipal offer, and it is well because the municipalities are closest to finding the best-suited offer. But the law is the important tool we have: it's a crystal clear law that says they're going to get that offer. That is why it has been important for me to also signal to the Workers' Party, which has recently promoted an important representative proposal, that the way the law is, as the processors are, actually responds to the concerns of the Workers' Party. So I'm not sure if it's the law that's the main problem. That is why we have started an evaluation, as I mentioned, so we will also follow it up, and I hope it can get to me in the course of the year.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e648	Some of these proposals do not involve any specific costs, such as: this by amending the legal text and ensuring that it also includes threats from other related parties, so there is some of these that are not justified by costs or organisational circumstances. But there is a need for women to get it in place, because women are today rejected because there are different interpretations of that law. What is the reason why the Council of State will not consider this change in the legal text, e.g., which will only be a tightening? It will put pressure on municipalities to tackle this problem if you get that interpretation, because that's the difference in interpretation that's one of the challenges here.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e655	I must first say that there are 47 crisis centres in Norway, and most of them accept those who have drug problems. I'm ticking, which may be dangerous to do in the Great Council chair – but I'm going to assume that the reason why it might not come is that it's demanding to separate children and drug users or people who are struggling with drugs. I'll assume that's why you don't get that offer. With regard to the proposal to which the representative refers, with the definition of ‘close relations’, we checked it out. The preparatory work says that one “has or has had reciprocal obligations towards each other and/or is dependent on each other”. That means that it's the individual who has to tell you what kind of relationship you've had. That's why the definition is very broad, and I can reassure you that the definition also has to be wide. It's important to get to the municipalities, so that they actually get that help.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e662	In this case, I would like to draw up the full report to RVTS South from 2011, Psychiatrically ill and addictive women as users of crisis centres. It says, among other things.\t\t You can change the ‘Especially violent women with drug problems are challenging for crisis centres. Several crisis centres have indicated in routines that drug use is not allowed in the crisis centre and that women who are affected by the drug will be rejected.’ This report shows that crisis centres were concerned with how violent women with drug dependence or mental problems affected the children who were there. They had negative attitudes, in fact, to women with drug addiction. And you pointed to the competence of the staff. So this report dates back to 2011, and it hasn't changed that much since that time. Now it's announced an evaluation, but what can come out of it? Will there be concrete action, the Council of State believes, when he sees the situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e674	First, I just want to make it clear that the law is today, giving the municipality an obligation to provide a free crisis centre offer to violent women, men and children, including those with drug problems. So the law is clear that they're going to get that help, and as far as possible, it has to be individually arranged. That's the law. But it is true, as the representative says – we have been concerned about this matter, and the government platform is clear – that there should be an evaluation. That evaluation I hope will come in the course of the year. I think it is right for one to have the best possible and, to the extent that up-to-date decision-making bases, which are younger than 2011, when making any changes. Standing here foreshadowing changes I will not make, but I will promise that when the evaluation comes, it will be taken very seriously, because we are committed to giving violent victims a good offer, including those who have drug problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e681	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e688	A short time ago, I met Jenny. Jenny has been open about her story, that she has lived for a long time in drugs and used many different types of drugs, and that she has lived in violent conditions. One day the violence became so severe that she could not do more, she realized that this was enough – «I have to get out of here» – and called a friend. The friend called the crisis centre in the municipality where she lived, but they told her the following: “You can’t come to us – we don’t have the opportunity to accept you.” So Jenny stayed in the relationship a little longer. According to the Crisis Centres Act, all those who experience violence in close relationships must have a free low threshold of refuge. Nevertheless, women like Jenny and other vulnerable groups experience being rejected by the crisis centres. Then I hear the council says the law is strong enough. I'm not sure that's the case. The Council of State itself refers to development projects that his department has launched, and one of the project reports – from Varde Hartmark, which the department has hired – concludes on pages 26 and 27, among others. the wording ‘as far as advice is concerned’ helps to prevent vulnerable groups from getting a good enough offer. Then it is exciting to know whether the Council of State agrees with the conclusions drawn in this project report or whether he maintains that the law is good enough. There is no lack of will on the part of those who work at the crisis centres. I'm sure they would help everyone more than they like. But the situation is that they have to choose. The buildings are not properly designed, the competence is not in place in many places and the offer is not available. This requires tough assessments, where children's needs are put first, and that's right. It is right to put the children's needs first, but it is not right that vulnerable groups do not receive an offer. Then we have to make sure that this comes into place. This is well documented. We know enough that the offer is not present. We know that this is a group that is more exposed to violence than many others. There is a need to do something about this offer to this group, and I wish that we could join forces today with the proposals of the Workers' Party, which would have been a real strengthening for those who need it all, most of all.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e699	I have to say that I'm reacting a little bit to the tone in the hall, because I really think that all the representatives who have been on the platform say that you're working towards the same goal. The government has underlined in its letter of reply and in the input of the Council of State from the pulpit how well we are doing, and what we are going to do. So to present it as if we don't take these women seriously, I actually don't want to be involved. I think it might once again be timely to mention from this chair that the Labour Party is one of the parties that has the most rapporteurs out there. If there is so much concern about the crisis centre offer in the municipalities, I would suggest that the Workers' Party should at least take the lead by taking an initiative towards its rapporteurs in order to get to grips with this. Here we all have a responsibility, and of course we have a responsibility in the law. As the Council of State has assured us, there is nothing in the law today that excludes these women. But that there might be differences out there, we're going to be observant. In fact, I also believe that we should encourage our municipal politicians to raise this issue in their local authorities and let the rapporteurs be aware of this issue. Just to push it from one to the other, I don't think I make these women at all. We know that the number of users with drug problems is not evenly distributed across the country. That's why we've underlined in our remarks that some places in the country might have a different need than others. The most important thing for us is that you have a well-specialised crisis centre offer, which can best be cared for, for example. when the municipalities cooperate. Because it's actually not a crisis centre in every small municipality. But we have also emphasised very strongly and clearly that everyone in need of a crisis centre should be given a customised offer. I would like to underline it again from the pulpit here, as it may seem that there is a conflict about this otherwise in the Chamber that is not to read in the vote on the matter we are actually debating today. We're not going to live with the fact that some groups don't get an offer that they actually have a right to, and that can help them further, but we might disagree a little bit about how the way forward should be.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e714	It must then be a little easy to shift responsibility in this room to municipal politicians. There is no one else in this room who is responsible for what the Crisis Centres Act looks like. And it is this law that is to ensure equal treatment across the country – a non-discrimination that does not take place today. We must then jointly take responsibility for using the only instrument that can ensure that everyone receives the offer they require and need, namely to strengthen the crisis centre law. It's worth noting that there's a difference between the games. This year and last year, it is the first time in a long time that Norway does not have an action plan against violence in close relations, and it is with the Council of State who has today said that he has made it his prime task to work against violence in close relations. In the Granavolden platform, we can read that the government will ‘develop further the action plan against violence in close relations’. At the same time, we have not received an answer to what it means to further develop a plan that you do not have. It is far from word to action. I wish we could use the tools we have to actually make this a reality for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e724	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e740	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e749	I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in the consideration of this Document 8 by a number of representatives of the Workers' Party. I want to start by saying that child protection is a critically important task. It is about the care and protection of vulnerable children, children who have often been subjected to care failure at home. Then it's our job to make sure that they don't face the betrayal of society, which is to set them up and protect them. The representatives who have submitted the proposal refer to a number of recent studies and reports, at the latest from the Health Inspectorate, which have carried out the supervision of the Child Protection Service. I think we all in the Chamber agree that the Norwegian system for protecting children is among the best in the world. It's important that we hang out. Nevertheless, much has to be done. The representatives who have promoted this proposal come within several proposals that we in the SV also support. That is why I want to go over to what SV believes in the matter. We agree that there is a need for more coordination and cooperation between different services in the field of child protection. People working around the municipal child protection service often have to be experts on the whole tool. It's a big job, and we have to set up and help to make sure that the interaction and cooperation gets better. There are also several good proposals concerning education — ensuring good relations in education, ensuring that there is a class perspective, that those working in the child protection service have the tools to understand how stress and various problems can also be linked to the parents’ class background, and not least a knowledge-based development of the profession. These are all important proposals. Finally, I would like to explain that there are some of the proposals that SV does not want to support, which are not well established and in some cases also go in the wrong direction and can weaken the child's position in child protection, we believe. This concerns in particular the entry and access of the press to child protection matters in the county and a so-called second opinion. There we will refer to what the child-restraint children themselves say in the hearings, so we think there are good reasons to reconsider those proposals. Then I take up the suggestions SV is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e768	The representative Freddy André Supreme Court has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e773	Thank you to the President-in-Office for bringing us through the committee's proceedings in a good way. Reports have been produced over several years to identify serious errors and deficiencies in municipal child protection. Children throughout Norway do not receive the assistance they are entitled to, children to whom the community has the largest obligation to help. Many of these children fail in what should be their safety net. This is not because employees do not do a good job. Neither is it that everyone does not get good help, because many get it. And employees often make gold of graystone, but it unfortunately does not help the children who experience failure. This is not a new situation, it started in 2011. Then the government introduced the child protection promise. It consisted of two things: ear-marked positions and a lift of skills. The government has put this in the drawer and continued the lift, but not the posts. The failure reports have continued to come. More, including the Children's Ombudsman, the organisations and the #heierna campaign, point to the obvious: Children need more competent adults to get what they need and demand. But the government doesn't listen to this. Instead, we are witnessing a paralysis in response to the great challenges these children face in their everyday lives. As I have said before, if this had been a child with somatic diseases that did not have access to the skills and employees they needed, I think the debate would have had a different impact. The response of the Labour Party to these major and major challenges is three-fold. Firstly, with the support of the Christian People's Party, we were given confirmation that the share of commercial actors in child protection will be phased down and the idea will increase, without going at the expense of the public. Item 2: We received several government contributions to positions, which was also supported by the Christian People's Party until they were given government power. The third point is this comprehensive quality reform, which contributes to increased trust and greater legal protection for both children and parents. State Council replies confirm the situation description. In addition, he has responded to how many new tasks have come about since 2011. That answer was on six pages, so there's no lack of new problems. With regard to the point of second opinion and transparency, we see that it may be difficult to decide, but it is important that the public is given insight into what is happening in the field of child protection. It's openness today, and it's not about changing the law that underlies it, it's how it's being practiced, we're going to look at. The same applies to the second opinion proposal. We believe that it will contribute to increased trust in child protection, and that will benefit the children. I address the Labour Party's proposals and the proposals we are promoting together with SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e798	The representative, Kari Henriksen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e803	With a view of the Hallingskarvet, up to the mountain and close to the slalom hill and the riding centre, there is a small log house. It's Fjellstø Care, a child-rescue institution. Hol municipality had long wanted an institution in its community, but did not get it. Finally, the municipal employee was hired to wait for this and set up a private institution. There is a good cooperation between this and the municipality, and the youth in Hallingdal does not have to leave Hallingdal when there are problems. What does this example have to do with the Workers' Party's initiative for a quality reform of municipal child protection? Well, that's an example of a lot of good things going on in child protection, but we have a little bit left. Oversight reports report multi-level failures. The Labour Party proposes a number of measures. I'll comment on some of these. Some of these measures have been initiated and/or re-examined by law, including: the proposal – which is important – to 25 years. It's now being introduced. The best interests of the child are important and that is essential when making decisions. I am therefore pleased that the Council of State in its letter to the Committee says that it will be highlighted in a general provision of the new Children's Act. Participation is also strengthened in the current law. It entered into force in July 2018. Improvements in the position of foster parents are also necessary, as the proposal addresses. There is a need for reinforced guidance and follow-up. In the 2019 budget, it was set at 25 million. precisely to improve the quality of parental guidance. In NOU 2018:18 Safe framework for foster homes is discussed among others. proposals to strengthen guidance for foster parents. I look forward to further action in this area. Raising competences in various areas of child protection is also necessary. It is also proposed. I'm concerned that there are many areas. It concerns the management, cultural understanding, participation and follow-up of children from minority communities. New further education in the field of child protection is under development, and I am pleased about that. But even I believe that we also need to develop a master's degree. It will contribute to more knowledge and research on child protection — which actions work, and which actions do not actually work. It will contribute to increased recruitment, and I also believe in the long term better performance of services. Right do not want norms in the municipalities of child protection, but we are very concerned that municipalities should have a conscious relationship with the quality of child protection, and that politicians in the different local authorities should put child protection on the agenda. We have improved the municipal economy, so it is possible to employ more people in child protection – it has also been – but we also want municipalities to give priority to the measures they think are the best. There may be a strengthening of school health services, measures at the family protection office or health centre.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e825	Few things are as important as setting up for our children. There's something about giving good help, but you also have to give the right help to those who need it the most, and the way that's best for them. It is also the case in Norway that we have children and families who need help. They simply need help from others to work or to get better conditions in life. That's where we have child protection. For me, it's incredibly important that the competence of child protection is the most important thing. Through good competence, good regulation, proper funding and an adequate arsenal of instruments, child protection can help most and best out there. As the chairman of the committee stressed in his statement, I have to say that today's proposal for a representative repeats a lot of what we in the Progress Party, the Right, the Left and the Christian People's Party have already done a lot of work and continue to work on. The government is already implementing a lot of what is in the proposal, so I can, of course, support the fact that a lot is good and, in fact, very much in line with the areas of activity that we are already giving priority to. Our quality reform in the field of child protection should improve child protection through organisational changes and through concrete skills and development measures. I don't think it's a standard of manning that's the solution, and there we are in a known style of work party, where the standard of manning is a proposal that emphasizes quantity rather than quality. Manning increases in child protection. The civil government employs more than 1 100 people in municipal child protection. These are employees who give extra quality out there, and who actually meet these people and the kids. I want to remind you that this growth is much stronger a year than it was under the red-green government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e833	What I think is a little sad, is that it seems like you're more ideologically concerned about building up the private actors in the field than ensuring a good child protection for the children who need our help. I think that helping our children is too important to be reduced to a failing political rhetoric from the opposition. Here we should be able to stand together to raise the quality. Instead, we experience an imaginative opposition that only tries to score cheap points. The fact is, child protection now provides a better offer for those who need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e836	During my period in the Family and Culture Committee, several proposals have been regularly made on child protection, whether from the Workers' Party, SV or my own party. There is no doubt that this issue involves all of us, and that we all have a strong desire that child protection should be best cared for by the children who suffer from some form of care failure. This proposal for a representative also points in that direction and proposes a number of measures aimed at improving the quality of municipal child protection. Child protection is still in the spotlight. There are factors that give cause for concern, ranging from how children are taken care of to how child protection is organised. The law is clear as to the rights of children who have suffered a care failure. In spite of this, failure of routines, lack of or mistreatment of procedures, varying degrees of quality of child protection services, etc., are reported. It is also very unfortunate that the quality of child protection is local, for all children must have an equivalent offer, but it only illustrates how complex and difficult this field is. It is crucial for the confidence and legitimacy of the population that child protection is maintained at a high quality level. Proposalers shed light on an important and serious issue. The central party shares the intention of the proposers and believes that we need professionally strong and up-to-date Norwegian child protection with sufficient resources. I am absolutely convinced that the #heians campaign from employees who want more staff must be listened to, since the child protection tasks have increased considerably. Child protection must involve itself and cooperate more directly with children and parents in order to find good measures and solutions. It is also important that children be heard in important decisions about their lives in the short and long term. Furthermore, I believe that more skills and longer-term education will be important in the future and with more regular child protection guidance and updating of both new employees and experienced people. There are several individual proposals from the Workers' Party that the Centre Party might be willing to support, but it is not entirely feasible, because they are encouraged by proposals we do not support. But it is very important for me to make visible here and now and for the protocol that we agree with. Points (a), (b), (e), (f) and (g) under ‘Children and parents’, points (a) and (b) under ‘Legal certainty’, (a) and (c) under ‘Organisation’ and (b), (c) and (e) under ‘Education’. In addition, in the Central Party we have looked at two other proposals from the Workers' Party that are interesting, but where we think it is wise to first examine the consequences they have. We are promoting proposals where we ask the government first to look at the specific consequences, both in the context of the introduction of second opinion assessment of emergency decisions and by allowing the press to have better access to the authorities. With that, I'll take up our suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e853	The representative of Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e859	It is our ally's strong desire and also our clear goal as politicians that all children should grow up in a good home, with adults who love them and who give them the care that they deserve and that they have the right to. But sometimes sad situations arise in a family that means that child protection must enter the picture. Children’s protection primarily contributes to a wide range of measures to help families work better together, but at worst they need to find a new home for their children, either temporarily or permanently. The Christian People's Party believes that high levels of competence and sufficient staffing in child protection are important, so that employees are well equipped to deal with the different issues and situations they come up with, because there are no issues here that are the same. For this reason, we will work for increased treatment capacity in municipal child protection, enough foster homes and institutional facilities to provide all children with an offer tailored to their needs, enough capacity in the counties to ensure rapid treatment, better supervision, training and guidance for foster homes and the right to follow-up, which is now extended to the age of 25. That is why, in the last few years, we have strengthened municipal child protection, and we will, of course, continue to do so as a government party. Just because child safety growth should be such an important political priority, I am pleased that both politically and publicly it is a great commitment to child protection. Although there may be some disagreement about the solutions, the Committee broadly agrees that child protection must be given priority and should continue to be lifted in the future. But unlike the proposers, I have full confidence that the Council of State and his department will be able to take care of the important and necessary changes in the proposal for a new Child Protection Act. But the proposers are still in for a good point, and it's important to listen to those who have the shoes on their legs, listen to the former child-restraints and listen to all the adults who work every day to give the children they're dealing with, a safe everyday life and a future. We have now had this opportunity through this hearing, and it has been very useful and good. But it is also worth noting that most of the points in the proposal for a representative have been taken care of – whether they have been implemented, consulted or in the process of being launched. A new child protection law is on the way, and the government will continue its efforts to strengthen staffing, competence and family protection – not least a family protection that needs to be adapted to a new and multicultural reality. In addition, it is important for the Christian People's Party that we always take the best interests of the child, and that's exactly why we are concerned with finding good solutions in the child's family and relatives. We have already made good intentions on the Granavolden platform, and I have great expectations of the new Child Protection Act. I therefore welcome a comprehensive examination of this, which will also address several of the main aspects of the proposal. On the basis of that, the Christian People's Party will support the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e878	I am pleased that the Stortinget wants a debate on the quality of child protection. Several of the proposals are good and in line with the bet area with which the government is working. The government is already in the process of reforming child protection. The reform includes several measures to improve the quality of child protection, and we also need to implement organisational changes to help increase prevention in municipalities and improve local provision. I agree with the rapporteurs that we need to strengthen child and parent participation and legal certainty. The child’s right of participation was strengthened by legislative amendment of 1 July 2018. Children’s rights and cooperation with the family are also central to the proposal for a new child protection law that has been sent to the hearing. I will legislate that the best interests of the child should be a fundamental consideration of all decisions and actions affecting a child. Child protection shall be based on resources available around the child. I suggest that the Child Welfare Service should facilitate the involvement of the child’s family and network. This will help to find good solutions tailored to the child’s needs and needs. Forced action is very invasive, both for children and parents, and it is very important that the parties experience being seen and heard and treated with respect. I propose to introduce the conversation process as a permanent arrangement in all the states. Evaluation has shown that this model leads to better communication and that the parties are more able to find voluntary solutions with less coercive use. I will also, like the proposers, extend the age limit for children's rights to follow-up protection from 23 to 25 years of age. I agree that we need to increase the competence of child protection and the quality of education. That's why this government has cut over 80 million. kr for various competence measures. We have increased the provision of practical further training so that more employees are given master’s level of competence. I also agree that we need to provide better follow-up and guidance for foster parents. That is why we have allocated 25 million this year. NOK to just this. We've discussed child protection crews several times. I agree that we need to work actively to address capacity challenges in child protection. In recent years, we have seen a significant increase in the number of posts in child protection services, especially in the years after 2015. The growth of the position is primarily due to the fact that many municipalities give more priority to child protection, and that is what we want. As the situation is now, I believe it will be wrong to use state instruments such as earring and manning standards. But as I have mentioned several times in the past: I will follow developments closely, and I will ensure that the quality and staffing situation are assessed regularly, both in each municipality and at national level. Many families will benefit from assistance from other municipal services, and I suggest that municipalities coordinate prevention. They need to see the provision of children and young people in the context, and the local council will adopt a plan for the cooperation of services – for the benefit of the children.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e899	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e904	When I hear the Council of State and representatives of the right-wing government, I realize that there are some policy areas in which there are enough good words and good wishes, because all the things they say are good, we basically agree. But we want to move on, and they don't. In terms of solution proposals: Before the Christian People's Party joined the government, we had – as I mentioned in my post – several common proposals for good solutions, including: Designation of positions, and we had this with ideal actors. Now we see that in the budget, the funds increase for commercial players, and we see a government that conflicts with all the forces of earmarking positions. What concrete changes have taken place in child protection from January 2019 until now, which means that the Christian People's Party has changed its view of what they agreed with the Workers' Party – before they joined the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e911	First, I just want to say that I am responding to the wording: the Labour Party will go on, but it will not. I have just read up and, not least, in my letter to the Committee, in response to what we are doing. Now, at the hearing, there is a new Children's Protection Act, where we are proposing a number of new measures that I am sure will improve child protection. The Christian People's Party has entered into six budgetary settlements with the government parties – we have not been in government all along, but we have entered into budgetary settlements. We support that policy. We have had many laps associated with earring and what works best. At least what I see now, including as the Council of State, is that the growth has been bigger every year under this government than it was under the previous – and it has not been earmarked. And it's the way of ringing that sometimes it can be kind of a floor. It's going to be a floor, but it's going to be a roof, because instead of spending more money, the municipalities use exactly what they get. I will follow developments carefully, but I am pleased that the municipalities have granted as they have done.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e920	Can I then ask the Council of State: When the Council of State was a representative of big business and was negotiating, a standard was put on the table for employees in school and kindergarten. What makes the children in child protection not need a norm? The Christian People's Party has put all its power behind getting a norm in kindergarten and school.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e925	I'm very pleased with that question. To me, it's obvious that there's a big difference between what the school does and what the child protection does. It's much easier to set a standard for school than to set a standard for child protection. And I've repeatedly challenged the Workers' Party: how should the criteria for this norm be? Should one take the number of concerns into account? This may make sense because the more concerns you have, the more employees you should have. What's the challenge? Of course, if a municipality receives an increased number of concerns, they need an increased number of employees, which costs more money. So it's an incentive to keep the number of worry messages down, which I'm worried about. Another possible goal is to look at the number of inhabitants, living conditions or something like that, but we know very well that there is a great difference between municipalities and municipalities in the situation of the young. I am not going to start using examples, but it is not difficult to reach municipalities that are struggling more than others. That's why a norm doesn't hit that well either. That's the obvious difference, I mean, between school and child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e932	I hear that the system is more important than what the children need, but leave it alone. In our proposal, we propose to assess and investigate a standard, how it should actually be put into practice, but it should be done in cooperation with the parties and organisations. That's what the government says no. When the Council of State asks me what a norm should be, I will ask the Council of State: why not get it investigated? It's his responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e939	To use the words of the representative Henriksen: that's because we put the child's best in front of the system. The system with a norm is not the solution, the system is not the solution. The most important thing is that each municipality can choose the measures that they consider best. I have said several times that I do not believe in a norm. That's why I don't see any reason to explain – and at least not when those who propose the norm are unable to say what should be the criteria for it. Therefore, I think it is much more important to strengthen the municipalities, as we do, for example. by making them even more accountable, by having a separate case in the Municipal Council each year. That's what I think is going to make many more local politicians even more aware of the important role of child protection. This may result in more child-restraint workers, but may also result in more youth workers, more in family protection or other measures that municipalities believe are even better in order to avoid getting to the point where child-restraint needs to be introduced. That's why I have a lot of commitment to both getting the crew up and, not least, strengthening the prevention work in the municipalities, which is the most important thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e946	One of the major challenges in this area is public vocabulary that takes place on different platforms, in particular with regard to serious issues that have been decided upon by the authorities. There are many groups who claim to be very tired about child protection, and who fight against it. There are families who often — perhaps rightly — question the decisions made. And there are employees who really get to run with hot and other issues. We need a public, objective body that can stand by the facts and put this into perspective. That's why many people have promised that maybe the press should be in, with confidentiality, and as we do otherwise in the judicial system, be there and see the child's protection in the cards, but also be able to put back assertions that are being thrown out. Will the Council of State take a closer look at it, or does he have other solutions to how we can bring down the level of conflict, the bad tone and the destructiveness of public vocabulary?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e953	I thank you for an important question. The premise on this issue is very important because transparency can help to create security and legal certainty. I agree that it is important to look at solutions that can make you even more confident about the legal system. In the proposal for the Children's Protection Act that we have sent out, we have proposed to continue today's practice. What you've done in several cases is to anonymize matters, so no one knows who it is, and then you put things on Law Data, so you can follow the process. Having said that, I think the most important thing is the child's consideration and the child's best. Now it's out at the hearing, and then I want to read those hearings carefully, because I agree that transparency around the negotiations is important – and that's a difference when it's, for example. consent. So this we're following closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e961	There has been a lot of debate both now and in the past on child protection staff, especially since the child protection workers themselves rebelled and gave what they called a national warning that they have too little time to be able to help each child. We hear stories about anxiety messages that stay in place for three months before child protection comes together to do something, because there are so many things. This is why the history of the positions is very important. In 2011, at the time, the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality carried out an investigation showing that there was a need for 1,500 new child protection positions, and a lifting was started – fortunately. Now, finally, after several rounds, we have received a response from the department that one still needs 1250 jobs. How, then, can the Council of State still say that there is no need for a national promise?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e966	I have always clarified that I believe crewing is important. And before I start the answer, I have to make it clear that in this case there are probably 24 other suggestions. It is important to focus on quality and many other areas, but staffing is one of the important issues. I have pointed out in the reply to which the representative referred about the need for 1250, which has been outlined, that we want increased staffing. But the question is, how do we best get more staff? Fortunately, we've given the municipalities good finances. Municipalities have chosen to give priority to increasing child-restraint. Some municipalities have prioritised it very high, others have prioritised it less. A earrings we know will be distributed equally, and so the municipalities that have prioritised it will not necessarily need it the same way. What I think is most important, is to follow developments closely. I'm not saying it should be like this forever, but I'm saying that as the situation is now, the crew has increased – and I hope it still does.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e975	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e982	I've heard it say that it takes a village to raise a child. A local government is required to have good child protection. It is the local government that is responsible, and the political ownership I believe must be made clear. Child protection meets the most vulnerable children and families we have in society. It is so important that care and services in the field of child protection are organised in such a way that children and their caregivers receive early, necessary and coherent assistance. This again requires sufficient resources and staff, as the Workers' Party proposes. In the new Child Protection Act, which is currently being consulted, there is a task transfer from country to municipality. It is demanding for municipalities with a stressed financial situation, and therefore it is necessary to ensure that the task is followed by money when these tasks are transferred. In fact, the government has to take care of that. Local authorities shall then ensure that services targeted at children and young people and their families are organised in good, knowledge-based, interdisciplinary, preferably co-located, high-quality services. The Workers' Party will have a quality reform that ensures trust and legal certainty, more State contributions to municipal child protection positions, and that child protection will be the responsibility of a public or non-profit organisation. The child protection system is not suitable for commercial operation and unit price. High quality presupposes that political and administrative top management has knowledge and interest in the subject area and, through it again, can take an active part in discussions concerning strategic choices concerning the child protection of the municipality. Political responsibility for child protection needs to be clarified. It is desirable, as I see it, that political leadership should have a common ambition and a vision for the child protection of the municipality – this in order to stimulate increased quality and motivate innovation and innovation. The visibility and anchoring of increased political ownership and responsibility for child protection should and must be provided through own annual reports to the local council, as proposed in the proposal. I urge you to support the Workers' Party's proposal for a quality reform with what it contains for municipal child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e997	It is positive that the Council of State warns that he takes this field seriously and will follow up the strong call of the Workers' Party to improve the quality. However, it is strange not to want a stronger national system, all the time there are enormous variations between municipalities and parts of the country in the way child protection works, for example. the number of emergency decisions, which may vary enormously between different parts of the country. There are few areas that are less suitable for political games and point to each other than this. We have to take a joint responsibility for the fact that the Child Welfare Service is still not good enough. This is writing a long way back. I remember my own political beginning in the 1980s, when there were 'folder children' we talked about, several thousand untreated cases, so this has been a repetition. But it's urgent, and if the Council of State really wants to track down the two years he's going to sit in the chair, this is really an area where it's possible. Firstly, the number of emergency decisions has to be taken. Now it's going to go the right way. In 2017, there were 1,800 forced and emergency placements, in 2018 there were 1,583. But every intervention is potentially a serious trauma to the child, and if it does wrong, perhaps a more serious trauma than the child has initially suffered. At the same time, we know that sometimes it's necessary, and I think that individual things that have got a lot of media attention have made child protection extra careful. But emergency decisions are really a defeat, because then the other measures have failed. Getting in much earlier, getting in much more flexible, being a lot closer to the family right from the start is a much better strategy. And there is no doubt that in large parts of the population, child protection has a crisis of confidence – immigrant families sending their children back to a foreign country because they have no confidence in child protection. The second point is that you have to get in earlier, and getting a larger range of measures that can also be taken if your parents oppose it, which is not about taking care or taking emergency measures, I think is the way to go. The third thing, of course, is that the time you intervene, the quality of the service must be good enough. There are few things that are as tragic as child protection has intervened, even perhaps with custody or coercion, and then it goes wrong because the foster home fails. Then it's really damage to damage. This is a very important area. There are few tasks in a society that are as fundamental as giving all children a good and safe upbringing. This we can do with our resources, but one has to do a proper job with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1012	The representative Giske was interested in something important. The fact that we get so many emergency hospitalizations of children in institutions needs to be prevented. But that also means that we have to spend more money on prevention, and that's why I was concerned in my previous post that the municipalities themselves have to assess where they want to put the pressure – is it in the health centre, is it in the family protection office, or is it in the outreach business? What I want to take the word for here is this is institutional space. It happens through allocation from Bufetat, they have an input center for it. It is the child’s need to be at the centre when making each placement and deciding which institution the child should be at. Municipal and state child protection has used private actors, whether ideal or commercial, over several years to achieve this. In 2015, the country concluded a cooperation agreement with non-profit actors and providers of both health and social services, and the government has strengthened the possibility of non-profit actors in recent years, first by announcing institutional sites in a sheltered bid for non-profits, and also with a larger number of sites guaranteed. It is claimed by the Workers' Party that the private institutions will be liquidated. I would like to remind you that private institutions are subject to exactly the same quality requirements as both state and ideal, and it is County that supervises all institutions. There is no knowledge that there are systematic quality differences between public, non-profit and commercial institutions. Nor is there any knowledge of differences in quality between the measures offered, whether by private individuals or by ideals. I would like to remind you of Fjellstø Care in Hallingdal, which was created by idealists because the municipality did not have the power to offer a good enough offer. With the policies of the Workers' Party, this centre will be phased out quite quickly. So it's on grounds of ideology, not that the offer to children and young people is not good enough, you want to put these centers down. I hope we can come further and see that there are the quality differences that are going to mean something when an institution has to be shut down.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1027	Thank you for the debate – if it is over. It was at least no more that had drawn itself when I went up. I just want to comment on some of the issues that have arisen in the debate. That's what I'm talking about with help. We all agree. Our proposal for participation is about making it more systematic, as they do in healthcare, where it is required by law to have a user intervention system, so that it becomes both at system level and at individual level. So there we separate a little bit. We agree with user involvement and that the voice of children should be heard more, and now the Council of State also replied that more attention should be paid to both family and relationship voices in this. That's good, but we want a clearer explanation of what participation actually means. So it's economics, and that's where the differences lie -- like the difference between investing in child protection and spending money on child protection. There's no need for warnings. I have read warnings from this pulpit very many times. It's reading to deaf ears, I know that, but I'm going to read one more, and it came from Bufdir, from his own trades department, to the NOU in 2016: ‘If the proposals are not followed up with significant funding, they could be at the expense of other important tasks in the municipal child protection service.’ And that's what it's all about: getting enough people to do the problems, so that the quality can grow. It's a break point between quality and efficiency, and what organizations, the Children's Ombudsman, the #heians, everyone at the hearing, tells us, is that the break point has been reached. There is not enough staff to develop the skills both the government and the opposition are interested in providing child protection. That's what's the political difference here. So to this with prevention. We fully agree with that. That's why we're proposing to focus more on the organisation that's much more out of the way, and to strengthen education so that people can get out more. And there's no contradiction between our proposal and what the Council of State had in mind, that they can hire recreational consultants, therapists or support contacts. They can do that within our system. In the end, I would say that it's not that it's just in the municipal child protection it's failed. Also in the institutions, which also involved Örmen Johnsen, there are reported offences — in 36 out of 60 institutions. That is why, in our revised budget, we are proposing to set of 2 million. kr to an online warning scheme for children in institution protection. Because there are kids we're talking about, and they can't wait anymore.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1045	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1061	At the request of energy and the Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that – within the allocated speaking time – up to six rows of replies are given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1070	A working group at NVE has assessed the need to strengthen the management of risks arising from digitisation. The work group's assessments are summarised in the NVE report 26:2017, Regulation of ICT Security. The working group considered that current legislation is broadly in line with international standards and practices, but nevertheless needs further regulatory clarifications to help ensure that activities and systems in the energy sector are best protected against digital threats. The working group recommended this background, inter alia: greater ability to control persons to access installations, systems or other equipment classified in accordance with Chapter 5 of the Power Management Regulation. The Ministry proposes a basis for the regulatory provisions on the collection and use of police attestations that may be included in the provisions on emergency measures. The matter has been discussed widely, including, inter alia: the contributions of the Association of Advocates have been incorporated into the proposal. I will end by thanking the Committee for a good cooperation. The Committee supports the Government's proposal, and I recommend the Committee's recommendation, which is promoted by a unanimous committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1079	In recent years, energy authorities have focused on identifying potential risk factors and on enhancing security in the energy sector. The legislative proposal under consideration today is one of the measures resulting from this work. The security of supply in the Norwegian energy sector is good. However, digital developments in the sector and society in general have led to changes in the risk and vulnerability profile of the energy system. As the rapporteur pointed out, there is a working group at the NVE that has assessed the need for regulation to meet this. Inside threats were identified as a potential challenge. Against this background, the NVE has recommended the introduction of a greater possibility of controls on persons accessing classified installations and systems. Classified installations are those which are considered to be of particular importance for the supply of power. This may typically relate to power stations, transformer stations, power lines and operational control systems. Here the government proposes a change to the law, so that the owner and operator of such facilities may require persons to be granted access to the police to produce a certificate. The legislative proposal provides the basis for the requirement for police attestations in the regulation, and detailed requirements for the collection and use of police attestations are planned to be included in the force emergency regulation. The requirement for a police attestation will apply in all new posts requiring access to classified facilities. All employees are not covered by this proposal. The objective of the amendment is to provide a better basis for assessing whether persons should have access to classified installations that represent a safety risk. A so-called ordinary police record is considered sufficient in this respect. However, the processing of personal data itself must of course be carried out in accordance with the applicable data protection legislation. The legislative proposal has been in consultation and, as indicated in the proposal, most hearing bodies have been positive in this regard and that police record is considered as an important measure to prevent crime against classified energy plants. I believe that this is a good and useful legislative proposal. The critical importance of the power supply for society as a whole requires good control of who will be able to access such facilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1094	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1110	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that – within the allocated speaking time – up to six rows of replies are given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1119	Let me first thank the Committee for a good cooperation on this matter. We have a unanimous stance, and that is a good thing when we are mutually agreed to increase the penalties for environmental crime in Norway. We do that on the basis of the fact that there are a large number of infringements of both the product control and pollution laws every year, and that there are very many of them that break the rules here, which do it repeatedly. The police and prosecution authorities follow up the offences they consider to be particularly serious, but otherwise it does not appear that today's sanctions have the effect that is desirable, namely to reduce the number of violations of these laws, which eventually pose a serious social problem. I would also like to refer to the International Natural Panel, IPBES, which just a month ago produced a report that describes nature's state and the relationship between nature, human activity and economic development. It is a report that shows that loss of nature is a threat similar to climate change, and one of the measures to reverse the trend, recommended in the report as crucial, is that penalties for pollution are integrated into legislation and regulations. It is therefore quite appropriate that the Ministry has proposed changes that increase the penalties provided for in the pollution law, the Product Control Act, the Natural Diversity Act and the Svalbard Environmental Act. In order to deal with infringements in a simpler and more effective manner, provision for environmental compensation is now made for infringement fees in the two former laws, and a provision on infringement fees in the Nature Diversity Act is amended. This is done most to coordinate administrative sanctions in environmental laws and does not involve any significant change. The criminal prosecution is lifted in all four laws, conditions for the use of the upper criminal framework in the pollution law are amended, and it is clarified in the Criminal Procedures Act that the prosecution of general infringements of the laws is added to the police. In addition, there are only minor changes in the criminal provisions of the pollution and product control laws. We have seen that too much of the criminal provisions contained in those laws are empty threats, in the sense that they are little or not enforced at all. We therefore believe that with the changes we are making here, as a society, we will deal with environmental law violations in a much better way in the future. We have to, and otherwise this is just one of the actions we are taking in the right direction in order to better manage nature and the environment in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1134	The central party supports the intention of this proposition if, inter alia, raising the penalties provided for by the pollution law, the Product Control Act, the Nature Diversity Act and the Svalbard Environmental Act. Nevertheless, there is reason to make some comments. This amendment must be made for preventive reasons in relation to those who deliberately commit environmental crime. These exist, and we have seen examples where builders and others speculate in low penalties against possible profits, and where others also deliberately contaminate because the penalties are so low that they simply take the punishment rather than the clean-up. On the other hand, the Central Party believes that there is reason to note that pollution can also happen by accident, and we are of the opinion that people who act in the best sense or in good faith should not be hit by long sentences. Everyone can make mistakes, and mistakes will be made as long as there are developments. In some industries, such cases are more vulnerable than in others. We are therefore a little concerned about the impact it has on industries that are already engaged in a risky activity, which has a risk of environmental pollution and which also live in a stressed economic working day and do not have the opportunity to take all the necessary precautions that are sometimes required. Forestry is a typical industry of this kind, where accidents occur, where environmental crime is not deliberately committed, but where it can sometimes be harmed by environmental crime. We're probably a little worried that you haven't taken such considerations into account in the proposition, and wanted to mention it in the debate today. So we support the proposition, but we believe that we must clearly distinguish between those who deliberately commit crime and those who act in good faith.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1145	Today, the size should decide on Prop. 77 L, on amendments to the Pollution Act, the Product Control Act, the Nature Diversity Act and the Svalbard Environmental Act, etc. The Committee has made its recommendation, which is, of course, unanimous and positive. I appreciate that. I propose in the bill amendments to introduce an infringement fee into the pollution law, the product control law and the nature diversity law. I also propose to increase the penalties for environmental crime in the pollution law, the product control law, the nature diversity law and the Svalbard environmental law. Annually, a large number of infringements of the Product Control Act and the Pollution Act are detected. Such infringements present a risk of harm to health and the environment. In order to ensure compliance, it is important that the authorities have the possibility to impose an infringement fee and that the penalties are lifted. The most serious cases will continue to be left to the police and prosecution authorities, but the possibility of charging an infringement fee in these cases will be able to effectively follow up a larger number of offences. This will also have a general preventive effect and provide a more flexible sanctioning system. In the long term, it will be possible to reduce the risk of harm to health and the environment. I therefore propose to introduce provisions to impose an infringement fee in the Product Control Act and the Pollution Act. I also propose to change the provision on environmental compensation in the Nature Diversity Act to a provision on an infringement fee. I also propose raising some penalties in the pollution law, the product control law, the nature diversity law and the valbard environmental law. General penalties in the pollution law and the Product Control Act are proposed up to one year. An increased three-year penalty framework is proposed in the Product Control Act and the Pollution Act. The conditions for the use of an increased five-year penalty framework in the pollution law are proposed to be amended so that the provision can also be applied to infringements which have caused serious or irreversible damage to biodiversity. The penalty for serious infringements of the Nature Diversity Act and the Svalbard Environmental Act is proposed to be lifted to five years. To the previous speaker, who was concerned about the amendment of the law and what it would lead to: the changes in the law do not involve any changes or decreases in the debt requirement. Nor do these proposals reduce the threshold in order to be judged for serious environmental crime. More stringent penalties shall also be applied in environmental damage cases, but there shall be no change in the applicability of the legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1162	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1178	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that – within the allocated speaking time – up to six rows of replies are given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1187	The issue we have on the table today, in the form of a representative proposal from Kristoffer Robin Haug, is one of the important issues we are facing. Albert Einstein once said that if the bees die out, man has only four years to live. There is something that I believe this room has also begun to take over, because when my own party presented in 2015 a proposal for a national strategy for wild bees and pollination, it was not as much a matter as it is now. It was met with a certain shoulder pull and resistance to handling something so narrow. It's no longer like that. Insect death is on the agenda, and it is good that the proposer is involved in keeping up the pressure in this matter. It is also good that the Committee has had a constructive work on the matter, and that the Committee is in agreement with the representative Kristoffer Robin in that it is very alarming that the number of a number of insects is falling sharply. Most of it suggests that the decline is due to human activity, such as land degradation and changes in farming practices. One might actually say that this is the back of the medal for effective and more short-term profitable operating improvements. This is an example of the fact that in the use of nature and natural resources, human beings must have a fundamental respect for the context of nature. It is also used in the national strategy for pollinating insects, which was signed last year as a follow-up to the Storting decision on this matter during the previous ageing period. Arthritis is a goal in itself, and in this case, it is clear that a reduction in the number of insects sooner or later returns to us. At least one third of all food produced depends on pollinating insects. In addition, insects are an important source of nutrition for many avian species, and insects also play an important role in the degradation of biological material, fertiliser circulation and soil improvement. The Committee recalls that a loss of insects will lead to a collapse of food production and interaction in nature. Insect death can thus become an equally large or larger tragedy to civilization than many of the other problems we face and try to deal with in this room and in other forums. The common thing about these trugs is that we're forced to do something with them, and that we're forced to do something fast. We know the relationship in nature, and we're forced to do more before we reach a critical break point. However, when, from the point of view of the majority, we do not recommend that the proposals of the Greens/Greens/EFA be adopted, it is because many of the measures proposed are either in progress or under planning. Other proposals themselves cover a whole range of policy fields which cannot be clarified by a representative proposal, as the proposal suggests here. However, we agree with the main intention of the proposal to put in place more good measures. It is also being done, as if we are agreeing to the UN pollinator's initiative, or the strategy mentioned, or when new means of action are coming through the agricultural sector. That's the first time it's done, and it tells us to do more. It's not enough, but things are going the right way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1208	The insects are the very rootstock of our ecosystem. It's the ones that make it all work. I guess a lot of us have experienced that the insects can be annoying in everyday life, but without the insects, we wouldn't have had any everyday life. Insects that die out are one of our biggest environmental problems, and I think it may have been the most under-communicated environmental crisis we're facing. I would therefore like to thank the Greens for promoting this proposal and for giving us this debate. We need more debate and more action to stop insect death and to take care of the very foundations of life on earth. Although the world can't act enough for the climate, we've all got our eyes up for it. It's a crisis most people are very aware of, and the Paris Agreement has given us international goals and a marshes to all the countries of the world. The next year will be the natural summit in Beijing. Then we have to do the same for nature. We need to get the attention we need, we need to get all the goals we need – all that is to give the action that needs to be done. And even though we know enough to know that we're facing a huge challenge, there's still a need for more knowledge. We are therefore proposing today, together with the rest of the opposition, that we need more research so that we can promote more action in this matter. The main challenge for loss of nature, and therefore also for insect death, is land change. When areas change, the importance of nature and climate considerations must be given to them. Therefore, it was a pity that the first Erna Solberg did when she became prime minister, was to move the plan department out of the Climate and Environment department. Ola Elvestuen then said – in opposition – that it was stupid, because now climate and environment would lose in planning and land. And that's exactly what we've seen. I really wish Ola Elvestuen had been able to get through to his own Prime Minister and got responsibility for this important field. Unfortunately, he has not received it, because the country's prime minister does not see this in a climate and environmental context. Let me end with an explanation of vote. The working party is associated with the rest of the opposition behind the first four suggestions in the setting. Of the minority proposals, we are only going to vote in favour of the No proposals today. 2 and 4, and we're going out of proposal No. 1 and 3, which we originally stood inside the setting. I'll bring it up to you with the proposals No. 2 and 4, on behalf of the Workers' Party, SV and the Greens' Environment Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1223	The representative of Åsmund Aukrust has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1228	Our ecosystem will always be the determining factor for our existence here on Earth, and our insects are an important contribution to maintaining the fine mask interaction in nature. As you can see, this is an important discussion. That's also why this government has taken care of the problem, including the problem. by providing a national pollinator strategy in June 2018, which provided the basis for a systematic approach by several public authorities, which is necessary for a broad approach. This has also been continued in the Granavolden platform, a work being carried out by the Environment Directorate and to be completed by 2019. We also follow the international work closely. Norway actively participated in work under the UN Convention on Biological Diversity. Insect deaths and measures to deal with pollinators are important themes that Norway will follow in the negotiations on a new global framework. However, we record the turbulence communicated from the opposition party through the document when a proposal has been submitted to the European Commission for the transport of bees from one country to another. The members of the Government Party believe that this may lead to an increased risk of introduction and spread of infection that may cause bee disease, and the situation in this field must be followed by a precautionary approach, both for beekeeping and for wild pollinating insects. We have said through our remarks that one should look at the action room we have in order to be able to carry on a regulation of hiking. The possibilities to seek adaptation to the new EU legislation and/or to benefit from the national plant health legislation to regulate waterborne smoking are elements that should be considered in this work. We are confident that the government will follow up on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1239	When I spoke to my children on the phone yesterday and told them that Dad was going to discuss insects at Stortinget today, it was a joy. Because I can tell that at the Saudland family in Flekkefjord in West Agder we have insect hotels, we don't have robotic lawn mowers, on the farm I own neither do we edge nor use poison. It's flower meadows we catch butterflies and go to insect safari. It sounds like an insect reserve. But my point is that we're not doing that because it's a grant or a state grant or an aid scheme. I think it's strange that an exposure should always be measured in how much one is willing to spend on someone else's money to achieve a purpose. That's why I think raising people's awareness of insects is one of the most important measures we can do, so you get a personal commitment, so there's something about you, so you get that feeling 'there' when you talk about the little thing that can make the big difference in the big picture. And what has really created an insect exposure out there, is actually the fight against windmills that have fallen now, as a result of fear of a massive decline of Norwegian nature. What I want to do is to commend both the Council of State Elvesuen and the Government of the offensive insect policy that is being pursued, and as it is, among other things. referred to in the document, where it is said that Norway has given its support to the UN Pollinator Initiative ‘Coalition of the Willing on pollinators’. The government has put forward a national pollinator strategy, the Granavolden platform also addresses the theme, there is a dedicated pollinator forum, and it is working on an ecological base map. Nevertheless, although all these things are initiated by this government – by the government that is now – the Workers' Party, SV and the Green Party do not share the view that such a great deal is being done. It is written that ‘the government’s policy does not share the view that it will be sufficient’. They further state that the plans ‘will hardly be sufficient’, that ‘more radical action is needed’, that ecosystems in the world will ‘oppose a possible catastrophic collapse’, ‘radical intervention to save the insects’, ‘Emergency’, etc. Yes, but then I might have expected a little more radical action than what is proposed as a consequence of it, namely ‘establishing a research programme for development’, ‘establishing a programme for full scale monitoring of insects’, ‘having a better knowledge base on the status of insects’ and ‘establishing a support system for testing autonomous agricultural robots’. So these are the answers to the radical crisis, and that the world is facing a possible catastrophic collapse. It is not that I believe it does not, but I believe that the measures must be seen in the context. I want to commend the government and the Council of State Elvesuen for the good work done in the field today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1254	It is an important issue that has been raised by the proposer and that we are debating today. Insects are crucial pieces in nature and ultimately for all life on the planet. Insects are important for the food chain and for bird species, and play an important role in the degradation of biological material, manure circulation and soil improvement. Therefore, the decline in the number of species and individuals is alarming. Nevertheless, in this article I want to spend some time on the bees, perhaps the species that has received the most attention lately. Among other things, the government party on the left used its national meeting to dress party tops as bees to get attention around the issue. Many crops need help with bees to multiply. At least one third of all food produced needs bees and other pollinating insects. At the same time, the EU now requires free flow of bees in the EEA region, in line with its principle of free movement of goods. This sounds mildly bad at a time when the population of bees is under strong pressure, and it will not seem very fortunate to the Norwegian bees. Norwegian legislation has given world-class animal health to our bees. Authorities have just spent 37 million. kr to stop the aggressive open juvenile rat infection in the South. Norway is one of the few countries where the brown bees are still in pure form. We are now at risk of playing games when importing bees from other countries. What we have built up and taken care of is now at risk of destruction. At the moment, there is a shortage of both honey and beekeepers in Norway. So it'll be a good deal to sell bees and honey here. That's how the market works, and it also knows the market liberals in this room. But this cannot be left to the free market. Norwegian animal protection law provides protection for bees, but with free flow across borders, a single trailer load with faulty bees can destroy everything. The decline in bees is due to human beings and human activity. It is due to the movement of bees, but it is also due to the reduction of land and the change in farming practices. This will strike back on ourselves if we can't stop it. The question is therefore whether the staged tops were something more than funny images, or whether Left means something with his fight for the bees. In this case, the Left Party and the Government Parties today, and not only in the form of a note, should be involved in the proposal to ask the Government to ensure that Norway is exempted from any EU legislation opening up the free flow of bees in the EEA area. If not, it is doubtful whether it is as in the Left's campaign, namely that the bees would have voted on the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1271	A few years ago, a colleague of nature conservation wrote by me in the United Kingdom the book ‘What Has Nature Ever Done For Us?’. In the public debate, it can sometimes look like you're asking about just this: what has nature ever done for us? For is it not just in the way – in the way of a cabin area to be established, a purchasing centre to be built, a power plant and in the way of the road? Take the hops, as the previous representative was also about: a fearsome insect we're jumping from to avoid getting burned. Does it have anything to say about it disappearing? Yes, it does – quite a lot. Humla is vital for us to enjoy food such as coffee, fruit, berries, nuts and seeds. In the Sichuan province of China, thousands of farmers must fertilize the fruit trees themselves because they have completed the art of eradicating hops and bees. In California, they have to import one million bees annually in order to fertilize the almond trees. Fertility was free until the bees disappeared. In Norway, we have registered 206 different species of bees. Twelve of the bee species have probably disappeared from Norwegian nature for good. Many of us quickly realize that pollination and the bees and hops that do this job for free for us are important. A proposal has now been submitted to the European Commission to allow a large number of bees and hops to be transported from one country to another. We're talking in practice about the free flow of hops and bees. In practice, this means that foreign midwives are to be able to come to Norway with a lorry with foreign bees to fly. Norway’s Biröchterlag is very concerned about the situation and fears of the health of Norwegian bees. For the health of the Norwegian bees is at the top of the world. We heard the previous representative describe some of the important work we are doing to take care of the health of the bees. Now, large parts of this work can be worthless if we allow the free flow of foreign bees to Norway. This is also the background for SV, together with the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Green Party, today propose that the government must ensure that we continue to be exempted from the free flow of hops and bees into Norway. I'll bring up the suggestions from SV and MDG.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1284	The representative Lars Haltbrecken has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1289	I allowed myself to bring up a book, the Planet of the Insects, that Anne Sverdrup-Thygeson has written. She writes, among other things: that if the insects had decided and had room in the staging room, there would be 43,705 representatives – one for each species. It says something about the great diversity. The bees are important – yes. But there are many others, thousands of species, that we're also going to take care of. This is what the Left and Christian People's Party and several others have done to do a lot for the last few years. The national strategy, the pollinator strategy, is just one example. It was presented last summer. A pollinator forum has been set up and, not least, a great deal has been done to implement new digital tools to provide an overview of all our species and species diversity. We have the Species Project, Nature Type Mapping, Nature in Norway, Nature Base, Organic Base Map, which we need to do more to complete, Source and others. For the voluntary sector, species observations.no are established, which will help us to do the job of having an overview. So it's interesting that the Left becomes an attack point because there's a proposal in the EU on the free flow of bees. We're going to have to do that eventually. The biggest challenge is that in Norway we also have challenges, and they cannot talk away from the Center Party, which has a lot of its electoral base in agriculture, which has undergone major changes. It is not the Left who has contributed to the reduction of most gardening in Norway and has been responsible for the major industrialisation. It is in particular the Workers' Party and the Center Party that have been in charge of it. The change in agriculture, the industrialisation, the loss of diversity in agriculture cannot be explained and blamed on the Left. It's also part of what we're discussing here today, the usage structure that we want. We got a letter when we got the insect book, from Sabima, among other things, and one of the advice is not to do so much land disposal and alterations of what we are doing today. It's about asphalting a lot more, it's about letting cultivated land go out of operation, for example. These are, to a large extent, the central party and labour party rapporteurs who stand for them in the districts. Then they also have some big problems themselves. But we in the Left are involved in doing our job in the cities: bee and hop hotels, hobbies, garden cities, green roofs, and the job that the districts have done here in Oslo, among others. setting out flower boxes — school classes are involved. Having an urban farm, which takes its responsibility, is part of it. The centre party is involved in taking responsibility and changing the use of spraying agents and maintaining the structures of agriculture... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1301	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1306	So we get to divide by the problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1311	Our planet is in crisis. The report that came from the UN earlier in the year says not only that we have a small challenge that we may have to think about gradually, and perhaps need to put a little bit more into the way of the insects in the world. It shows that our nature is already in crisis – the nature of which we are part. Nature disappears at a pace that the earth has never seen before. A million species are threatened with extinction. 10 pst. our insects are in danger of disappearing — one in ten insects on the globe. Insects are the little gears that make everything in nature work. They are food for animals and birds, which again is food for humans. They pollinate and pollinate our fruit trees. 75 pst. food crops in the world depend on insects. Climate change is a reason why the species in nature are dying out. But the main reason is that we humans take up more and more space, we push animals and insects. We eat up, we build down, we use up their habitats – and with that we don't give a shit in our own nest. Some 1,200 insect species are classified as endangered or vulnerable in Norway. 92 of them are critically threatened. 88 species of wild bees, wasps, beetles and butterflies are considered extinct in Norwegian nature. Norway needs a reverse operation for nature protection, land use and agriculture to prevent Norwegian and global insect deaths. We humans must be willing to prioritize the areas of life of insects, including at the expense of other interests, such as the cheapest possible road construction, housing and intensive forestry. That is why we have proposed a crisis package for the insects. We propose a number of measures for more insect-friendly agriculture and forestry. We want fewer sterile and brittle lawns and more flower meadows. We want to stop the bit-by-bit degradation of nature. We want more summation and less exhaust gas. When representatives of Gisle Meininger Saudland think that we want too much, but have too few measures, and frames up some of the very many measures that are now being promoted for the Stortingen today, he forgets to mention the most controversial, which the government will in no way go into, and which, moreover, the Centre Party and the Workers' Party will not go into. This applies, for example: to strengthen the right of objection of the county councillors in terms of area outside the municipalities – or a number of measures that we propose that the state should offer farmers’ organisations in the agricultural settlements each spring, so that we actually ensure that what we sit and negotiate with farmers’ organisations is based on a policy that takes care of the insects we depend on.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1330	I look very seriously at the loss of insects and the problems this is for nature globally and also in Norway. Recently, more reports have been made of the decline of insects worldwide. The trend is of great concern and requires increased action. Insects play a crucial role in many ecosystems. Loss of important ecosystem services such as pollination is very serious for our food production. Extensive declines in populations or species of insects may lead to ecological breakdowns of which it is difficult to understand the consequences. We need more knowledge about what affects insects. We know that the insects are threatened because the habitats disappear and the climate gets warmer. We know that hops in the mountains are already negatively affected, and alien species and the use of pesticides also adversely affect nature and insects. In order to see the evolution of insects over time, we need more extensive and more systematic monitoring of several species. The Norwegian Institute for Natural Research is running a pilot project in which researchers are in the field and test methods for data collection. First of all, this is done in two key ecosystems for insects, namely in forests and in cultural landscapes. I want to make a final decision on nationwide monitoring when we get the results of the trial project. Data collection is also part of the follow-up to the government’s national strategy for 2018 to take care of the wild pollinating insects. The strategy shall ensure viable populations of wild bees and other pollinating insects in order to maintain pollination in food production and natural ecosystems. In line with the strategy, a specific action plan shall be established for wild pollinating insects. The action plan shall identify effective measures and contain a timely implementation plan for each sector. There are many that affect the situation of the insects. As a result, there are also many who can take action. There is a great need for cooperation. Good habitats for insects, e.g. in agriculture, must be bound together by green infrastructure, such as the falcon and the agricultural landscape, where insects can move between different areas of life and populations. This means that different land managers need to cooperate on actions. In the budgets, we have increased the appropriations to take care of threatened nature. We have also increased the subsidies to the system of selected agricultural landscapes, to measures in protected areas and to combat alien harmful species. A separate grant scheme for pollinator actions was launched last year and is of great interest to it. In addition, since 2013, we have established 449 new nature reserves in connection with voluntary forest protection. The rate of death in forests is also increasing. So this government has understood the seriousness of the insects and is well-informed with a series of measures to counteract the trend you see.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1345	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1350	I would like to take this opportunity to ask the Council of State about the comments made by the Government Parties on the free flow of bees, where government parties are asking for the use of the action space to prevent the introduction of this EU legislation. Does the Council recognise the challenge it will pose with the free flow of bees and associated cross-border infections and diseases, and how will the Council of State guarantee that we will not become part of this legislation?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1357	We have been working on this for a long time, and the Food Safety Authority has been involved in the work of the new EU animal health legislation, which regulates the movement of bees and hives. We have made written and oral contributions to the process and have also tried to support a continued ban on cross-border migration. Now we have to assume that animal health legislation will not allow us to maintain the current ban, and experience makes it difficult to obtain national adaptations. We will continue to try to make an impact on national adaptation, and we are also working on other options for continuing regulation of watermechanism in the national plant health legislation, which is not part of the EEA Agreement. So we have had contact with the EU to influence the process all the way, we also see whether it is possible to get national exemptions, and we look at our own national legislation that is outside the EEA, to regulate this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1364	I hear that the Council of States says that we need to change the legislation to adapt to the EU and that we have close dialogue with the EU, but we cannot guarantee that we will not have free movement of bees across borders in the future. Would it be considered for the EEA Party to put into effect the so-called ‘veto right’?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1371	We are part of the EEA Agreement, and EU animal health legislation is a strong regulatory framework, although open juvenile rats are not a listed disease. What we want to look at is the possibilities. We have taken initiatives to influence the process. We also want to look at the possibilities for adaptation and how we can use national law, but I don't think it's relevant with any particular veto at this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1376	Our colleague here, the party colleague of the Council of State, said that insect death was largely due to the changes the Workers' Party and the Senter Party had done in previous governments, and that all the Centerpart and Workers' Party rapporteurs were asphalting too much in the districts, so the Left took care of the cities. Now this case is a little too important for me to hareble with it, but I come from a state that is 14.8 pst. larger than Denmark, and our criticism is not that we add too much asphalt, but too little. My question is: is the Council of State agreeing with its party party that the Workers' Party and the Centre may deal with this in the districts, because the Left is doing its own thing in the city, as he said?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1383	I am absolutely sure that the local government members of the Left will take care of this in all municipalities where they are represented, whether in the districts or in the cities. This is a core part of what you go to choice on, often locally, and it's definitely going to be forward as well. I think all the parties now have to look at how to drive land development in the municipalities. It's a bit-by-bit expansion that can be explained separately, but we need to get the same attitude to nature, as it is to climate in the Paris Agreement. You have to mobilize from below. That is, we can't stop bit-by-bit expansion with just objections. You have to have local people, businesses and others responsible for land to take a joint responsibility to take care of their part of what is necessary to stop bit-by-bit development.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1398	I'm very pleased with that answer, and I'm very happy that the Left too will contribute. Then the Labour Party and the Centre will do their part to get even more rapporteurs, but we are pleased with that contribution. Then is my last question: did I understand right, that you don't just focus on the cities, but you want to contribute all over the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1403	Now I stand here for the government, but also in the government, the Left is always occupied with the whole country. Experience has shown me that there is some difference between the parties in precisely these questions about spatial planning in the different municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1407	As has been mentioned by several speakers here today, land management is crucial for the degradation of Norwegian nature. It is also in the context of the world. Of course, it was confirmed by the Nature Panel, which presented its report on 6 May this year. I have tried several times to get a clear answer from my colleague to Elvestuen, Monica Mæland, about this that liberalisation in the areas of development, degradation, completion, fragmentation of areas of life, etc. has taken place as a result of the liberalisation of the development processes. I have observed that this is the case, and I expect that this Council of State, Elvestuen, is also a good observer – and perhaps an even better observer than me, because he is in government. Does he agree that the liberalisation that has taken place in the field of development and degradation has led to more loss of Norwegian nature?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1414	I don't know what liberalisation is. The responsibility must lie with those who are local government representatives who make decisions. It's political decisions one takes, based on what one wants to achieve. Then there's bigger expansions, whether it's within infrastructure or other, that happen, of course. What we have to take greater responsibility for is that we have better overall planning. I also believe that we must help to give local authorities more knowledge of where the natural qualities are. I am absolutely sure that putting in place an organic base map is an important tool to give the knowledge that can make better decisions. Then we have to get a mobilization by nature, so that there is a greater awareness of conserving all the land, in order to preserve nature.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1423	What worries me is that just like nature and the food soil in Norway, it is broken down and divided because the responsibility is powdered and it is not clear who is responsible for what, the same thing happens in nature management. I think that's one of the main reasons we're losing insect areas, and that's why we're facing this challenge -- because it's unclear. Although Elvesuen State Council is responsible for the care of insects, Elvesuen State Council is not primarily responsible for how we manage the land, which principles underpin the development of transport, when the state enters and orders projects. A very concrete thing the Council of State can do, which could compensate for the fact that the government's pollinator strategy is little concrete, is to start putting demands into what the government is offering in the agricultural settlement. Some things that are very important grips are turning the subsidies of agricultural policy more towards care and land instead of volume. It's a very big and marked change the government can take the initiative. The question is whether the Council of State is willing to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1430	This year, as well as last year, we have turned the agreement over to become more environmentally oriented and also towards what is going on with insects. The regional environmental programme has been strengthened. There are grants to sow and shoot zones with pollinator friendly seed mixtures on agricultural land. The SMELs are reinforced, with leads also towards pollinating insects. We have doubled the number of cultural landscapes by 2020, including with increased funds. An action plan on the sustainable use of plant protection products has been put in place, which is strengthened in this year’s agricultural settlement. The climate and environmental programme has increased by 2 million. kr. There is also a need for increased knowledge of pollinators. Norwegian Agricultural Advisory Board, with a provision of 98 million. kr in total, shall provide good knowledge of good measures for pollinator insects to farmers. The set-aside for organic farming is increasing, just as it was increased last year, both with area payments and with livestock subsidies. [[The President clubs.]] So this is followed up in the long-term plan. [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1437	Time's up. Replicate cord shift complete. The following speakers also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1444	I want to get back to the area management part. That means very, very much. We should remember that on May 6th, the Naturpanel report came, a very serious report. For the second time and for the most part, it was emphasised that this is an equally serious threat to much of the world's nature as climate change is. It's the rug right here. Any degradation — including in Norway — of the pockets that go, of the wetlands that go, of the woodland that goes, is part of the big picture in bit-by-bit degradation. That is why we must take each case seriously. I record that the Council of State refers to municipal responsibility. Yes, there is a municipal responsibility in spatial planning, of course it is, but we know the size of many of these municipalities and above all the professional quality – they don't have enough resources to have all the knowledge in this sector. This is widely known. We can't help but say that the state has had a kind of overall role, for example. through County and the Environmental Protection Department there. The overall planning tools are very important, absolutely, but they've squandered a lot. First of all, we don't get away from this famous opposition institute, as many people seem so dry and boring that you just yank it, but it's so important to keep local expansion interests a little bit in the ear. It has proved to be important year after year. There, national regulations that we have adopted here in the Chamber are given the lead and interpretations, not least the Nature Diversity Act, which was a milestone in Norwegian nature protection and Norwegian nature management. And then we see that Norway is being built up at more speed than ever. It is a desire and wanted policy from this government. It started with it already before the 2013 election. The Prime Minister announced it, the current Minister of Finance announced that it would be liberalised. If there's something they've got and had the power to act on, it's just this. They have done this. It has become easier to expand, build up, split up and fragment the areas of life, which include: goes out on the insects, of course -- it's the hook with this -- but it goes out on all the other animals as well. My point is that I want to stress from SV's side that this has been a desired policy that has been successful. There has been liberalisation: faster progress, faster deployment, coordination, but something has gone at the expense of something.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1457	In my previous post I made an attempt to take the Left's campaign on bees seriously, and I was probably really stuck in something. I must thank the representative Ketil Kjeseth for the influence he attaches to the Central Party in agricultural policy in relation to the end of the last 30 years. It would be thought, after the comments of the representative, that it has been all along. The truth is that the Centre Party and the Left have, historically and traditionally, come together on Norwegian agricultural policy, to a large extent. We have agreed that we should have a varied structure of use, that we should have agriculture throughout the country, that we should ensure that there is a possibility of using large and small farms. So it surprises me a little bit. I don't think the Center Party has been the driver of the usage structure we see in the country today, I think there are others who are going to see themselves a little bit in the mirror when it comes to it. Then it comes to soil protection, and there's the center party clear: soil protection is very important, and it's very important to preserve the diversity of the insect world, including among the bees. But I want to go back, because now it was about the free flow of bees, as the EU has proposed, and it is extremely serious. There are also limits to the free market, and the Left should now be able to help us. Although the Left is an environmental party, I hear the Council of States say we need to adapt to EU legislation. Talking with the EU, talking to the EU and trying to gain an understanding in the EU, preventing this legislation, that is, moving bees across borders is not allowed. But this is thin. The question of Ketil Kjeseth and the Left is: Is the four freedoms of the EU being taken into account, and then the freedom of movement of goods, general animal health and the survival of bees? That's the big question here.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1470	It's okay that we have some wepsebol in the middle of the main hall, that we stick each other a little bit. This is an important debate. When the representative, Runar Seestad, gets a little indignant on behalf of the Workers' Party, I can see that, since I drew the Workers' Party so closely into it. But the fact is that the Left has the rapporteur in 12 out of 426 municipalities, the Central Party and the Labour Party have most rapporteurs. There has been a soil-protection settlement in the Storting in recent years. Everyone sees that we're building too much land, and we have to take responsibility for that, also locally. I am from the district district of Uppland and have been in one of Norway's largest municipal authorities in one of Norway's largest agricultural municipalities, Gjøvik. It was a fight for the small parties and the county, as Arne Nävra asks, to stop and pull out the expansions. It wasn't necessarily that it was the Workers' Party and the Center's party, who had the management, who took the fights, because that nutrition establishment was more important, that way was more important, that school was more important, and it was then built down. Here we have to help each other, together. It's not just the responsibility of the Left in the cities, but the Left has made a formidable effort in the cities. We also take those fights out there in the districts, but it must help the big parties there to take. The left has a tougher demand for organic farming than the centre party. Many point out that it is important for us to achieve the diversity of insects, species diversity and pollination. In forest protection, we're tougher, and here it's fighting all the way to get that protection. It was the Agriculture Minister of the Left who introduced Agriculture Plus and SMIL funds. We take care of the cultural landscapes and put them in such a way that local interests who want to make an effort beyond what is normal locally will have the opportunity to do so. It does not help to threaten the EU and point to the State. We have to do a job all over the line politically, and it doesn't just belong in a heated debate in the armchair here in the main hall. It belongs all over the country. When we come to the municipal structure, which the representative Arne Nävra from SV pointed to, the alliance between the red-greens is there again, pointing out that professionally it becomes too little competence, it gets too dirty and crooked out there, that those municipalities can't keep up with it. Similarly, it is pointed out that the County must come and test those municipalities. Here we have to do a combined job to make this work stronger.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1485	First of all, I would like to say that there is one thing that has helped to strengthen environmental legislation in Norway in the last 25 years, is precisely the EEA and the relationship we have with the EU. It is just looking at the Water Directive and the water management plans we are now working on, how it is driving forward better nature protection in Norway as well. I really am one who believes that one must have a strong connection between the environment and spatial planning. That's why I also set up close and good cooperation with the Ministry of Local Affairs and the other departments. Many of the departments are just in the pollinator strategy for us to be coordinated. I think the criticism that comes from Stortinget that the Planning and Building Act is now in the Municipal Ministry is a little strange, given that the Stortinget has made the exact same change and transferred that responsibility to the Municipal Committee. I know that the Left voted against in its time, but it has been voted through. Much is being done in this field to care for insects. I mentioned Selected Cultural Landscapes instead. The main issues in the future are to look at supplementary protection where the Environment Directorate has presented its position and to follow up on the setting of endangered species of responsibility and habitat types, which was also sent to the Department of Environment Directorate. Then we continue to invest in forest protection – we are up in 449 new nature reserves since 2013. We're keeping it at a higher level than it's been in some majority period before. We've strengthened our efforts to restore ants. We also received a ban on the cultivation of ants earlier this winter – I could do it. We need more knowledge. The study of the reality of the state of insects in Norway will be very important for how we should now proceed. We're going to take international responsibility. We're doing it with the rainforest bet, but we're also going to do it to set up a new nature agreement in China in 2020. The most important conference in this field is held in Trondheim now in July, where we gather between 400 and 450 experts and those who will be negotiators, together with a high level part with the more important environmental ministers to see how we will drive this forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1501	I am so grateful to the rest of the committee for the debate we have had. There are several points I think it's worth making some comments about. There's been a debate in which some chauffeurs are drawn up, for example. spatial planning and municipal structure in addition to the holding of the various parties to the EEA and the internal market. When we debate the EEA and the proposals that have been put on the table in the EU, this is a piece of legislation that has not yet been clarified how Norway should adapt. The points made by the majority in the Committee then provide clear guidance. It is a cross-political hall that also says that it is important that Norway exploits the space for action with the adaptation of the existing legislation and to be able to see the possibility of using international regulations to do so. Agriculture policy has also become part of this debate, whether it is agricultural or non-agricultural. Then I would also like to remind my co-representatives that important things are happening that are going in the right direction and that are not being highlighted in this debate. In the agricultural situation we now have, it is the first time – at least I am aware of it – that the pollinator strategy and pollinators are mentioned, and there are also concrete measures, such as: organisation of seedlings for sowing and care of sonar with pollinator friendly seed mixtures on agricultural land through regional environmental programmes, such as: In many of the debates we have in the main hall, there will be a competition between the parties to be the most progressive and what does the best. I let myself be pleased that this debate has not been so. It contrasts with the way the debate was in the previous ageing period, when the Christian People's Party is proposing a representative to get a national strategy in this area. It is good that the government is challenged by an impatient opposition, and that it is now being delivered.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1514	I fully agree with the representative, Tore Storehaug, who says that it is good that the government is challenged by an impatient opposition – and boast to the MDG that has raised this matter into the Stortinget. But it doesn't think the government is being pressured by an impatient opposition, the government also has to listen to and take the consequences of the demands of an impatient opposition. We hear the Minister for Climate and Environment say that it is the EEA Agreement that has driven forward the most important environmental issues in Norway in recent years. Well, there could have been a lot of time to discuss exactly this, and not least the follow-up of the Water Directive by the government, but I would like to touch on another point of the climate and environment minister, and that is the opposition's criticism that the first Prime Minister, Erna Solberg, did when she joined in the autumn of 2013, was to remove some of the main responsibilities of the Ministry of Climate and Environment, namely the responsibility of the Planning and Building Act, to ensure that the development issues that take place locally are also in line with, and not in conflict with, the national environmental objectives. I have seen that Minister of Climate and Environment Elvesuen himself was in the Class struggle earlier this year and said that he would like the Planning Department to return to the Ministry of Climate and Environment. I fully agree with the Minister for Climate and Environment. This was, of course, a central part of the basis for the establishment of the Ministry of the Environment back in 1972, namely the governance of how we dispose of our land resources, which is also the most important thing today for the question of whether we are able to take care of or not to take care of nature. So I just want to wish the Minister of Climate and Environment luck in the internal discussions in the government to get the Planning Department back where it belongs, in the Ministry of Climate and Environment, so that the Minister of Climate and Environment will once again have the right to rule over one of the most important areas of what should have been his portfolio. The truth today is that we have a climate and environment minister who stands for influence in some of the most important areas for which he should have been responsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1525	I took the floor now at the end to bring a little heartache from a party that has never been in government, and it's that I think these debates often become a worse version of itself when you use the speaking time to distribute responsibility over time, because right now it's actually quite irrelevant. All parties who have been in a government or who have been in a local government have probably participated in a stupid decision on behalf of Norwegian nature.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1530	The discussion we've had about sometimes in this debate, which is about the system problem, I think it's the most important thing. We all want municipalities to have a right of self-determination, we all want municipalities to be able to decide on their own land, but it is precisely for this reason that it is very serious that the right of objection, the opposition authority of the statesmen, has been so weakened by instructions from the government that they should make the least of it possible. It is this representative Nävra refers to, in addition to pointing out that the Planning and Building Act has been transferred to another department. They have explicitly asked for less intervention from the state in matters where the municipality is making land re-adjustments. This is a common recognition we have to do. And that's a big problem, because in addition to that, we're struggling with the fact that nature – food soil has the exact same problem – is not only under the responsibility of one government council, but of more. So we don't just need coordination, we really need the Prime Minister to have this as the top responsibility if we take seriously that it's one of the biggest crises we're facing, because insect death ultimately means death to humans. So I'm asking the government to look at the system problem in that land management is so fragmented. That the state's role should be reduced in such a situation is very, very unfortunate. The protection of areas is well and good, and the Green Party supports all of that – we want more of the voluntary protection, and that is one of several proposals we have on the table today – but we also need to realise that most of the areas of insect life and to the extent that other species will never achieve protection status. It's all the little edges and hedges and meadows, that's how we manage the areas around in Norway, which means the most to the insect life in Norway and on the planet. These are not the areas in which we're going to get permanent protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1537	We have a natural crisis in the world, there is no doubt about it. Loss of nature is at a catastrophic level international. We're going to take a leading role in putting in place a new Paris Agreement by nature. I just mentioned the conference in Trondheim. It's a first big step to follow up on this also in the future, until the fall of 2020, and do what we can to get a strong deal. We need to mobilise municipalities – and everyone – to make it happen: that we are getting better at taking care of nature. We also need knowledge-based management. Yes, I believe that the Planning and Building Act and the Environment belong together and have been committed to it, but it is not part of this government platform, so we have a cooperation between the departments, which is good. And as I said earlier, it's a little strange that this criticism comes from a big deal that's done exactly the same movement of the Law of Planning and Building, into the Municipal Committee. We need to look at systems. That's exactly why we should do the same in nature as we do in our oceans. There we have overall management plans that form the basis for the policy to be pursued. What we have now started to look at is different models of overall management also of different types of land, which should be the overall leaders, in order to get better management. It may be the most important approach for the long-term improvement of nature conservation in Norway. Correctly, it will be an example of follow-up also for other countries, as the maritime management plans have become too many. So it's not like this is a field where we're pressed from the opposition. I referred to a number of measures — especially for insects, where we have a lot of measures. I'm not going to repeat them again and make an even longer number, but I can finally come back to Ketil Kjenseth's posts, where he pointed out that there had to be so and so many representatives to represent one species. Then I can say that it's just the government that has someone who represents one species. That's what I do, which is the representative of the species of snyltevepsen Aphelinus elvesueni.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1550	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1566	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be up to six replies from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1575	Let me first thank you for the good cooperation in the committee. We are facing a global climate crisis. It's our main challenge, and there's no problem that's more important to solve than this. Why? Yes, because it's about the future. It's about international poverty, and it's about our nature. We are at risk of land being swallowed up by the sea, and the earth can no longer be cultivated. It's a global problem, which requires global solutions. It does not just go beyond Norway when Norway pollutes, and it does not just go beyond China when China pollutes. It's going to affect us all. Most of it goes against those in the world who already have little. That is why we want to cooperate more with Europe and with the rest of the world. When we in the Committee now deal with a matter in which we are going to link Norwegian climate policy to EU climate policy, it is precisely about more cooperation. We get binding and actually binding international climate targets for the first time. Norway will report an enhanced climate target to the UN in 2020, and we are working to increase its ambition to 55 pst. Cut, cut, There's no abstract happening out there. All countries should cut — while helping the poor countries to cut their emissions. We are going to step up climate investment in the poorest countries in the world. The one billion people who today do not have access to energy at all are to be lifted out of poverty while solving the climate crisis. That's why we have to help them build renewable energy so that they don't use coal power. Energy needs are growing dramatically in the world, and the new energy sources need to be new and renewable, such as: sun and wind. Norway is a major contributor to climate finance, but we will provide even more. We need to double the support for the green climate fund, in order to take one example. The climate awareness that students in Norway have generated, we need. They get people elected to discuss new climate policies around all local governments and county councils and in Stortinget. The insurrection is also a picture of one of the highest things in Norway: the right to protest, the right to organise, the right to require change. Civil society is the cornerstone of liberal democracy. Support for civil society is therefore important, and if we are to cope with this, we also need a strong environmental movement. But do it, we'll do it. We, the generations that live now, are the last ones that can do anything about it. The sector by sector is going to cut in Norway, and we are going to help other countries cut their emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1594	In the work movement, we've got many of our greatest victories through strikes. The workers have shown the strength of the community when organizing and working together: the typographers who wanted to introduce collective pay, the female sex workers who strike for better health, and the iron workers who strike to prevent wage cuts. There are strikers who were controversial when they happened, but for which we all thank today, because they broke the road. This spring we saw a new type of strike. Thousands of students went out into the streets and boycotted the education to demand climate action. As the generations have done before them, they have taken up the greatest challenge of their time. For the climate crisis is really the biggest problem of our time. The world has only a few years to avoid a climate disaster. Youths demanded something more than being thanked for their commitment. They demanded to be heard. They required climate action. We can discuss different instruments, but the most important thing is that we reach the target, that emissions go down, and that we meet the Paris agreement. This has therefore been a surrealistic week for climate and environmental policy in Norway. First, we were informed that emissions in Norway have increased. This should not be possible, but the entry of the Left into the government has thus increased emissions in Norway in 2018. Norway is one of the few countries in Europe that continue to increase emissions at a time when we have a few years to halve them. The government really fails in what is the greatest task of our time, and you'd think it gave the government a crisis mood. We've got a crisis mood, but with the opposite sign. Yesterday, the Progress Party gathered in a crisis mood, and the country’s finance minister spent the world’s environmental day demanding that the urban environment packages in Norway be scrapped. It gives worse air and increased emissions, and it makes people's lives more difficult. Erna Solberg's government is running a policy where the climate loses in games and speculation between the parties. There is a striking difference between the policy in Norway and the policy now being adopted in Denmark. Mette Frederiksen is now becoming Denmark's new prime minister. She declared yesterday youth the winners of the first climate election. Norway will cut emissions at home, and we will contribute internationally. This government doesn't succeed in any of the problems. Under this government we have received massive aid for international climate work, and this at a time when the world has promised to increase. It is good that there has been a small increase now, but we are still well below what was the situation when Jens Stoltenberg left as Prime Minister six years ago. It was going to be six years of increase, so instead we've been cut. I hope that the new Minister for Development will put an end to the aid shots carried out by Erna Solberg, Siv Jensen and Børge Brende. I'll bring it up to you what the Labour Party proposal is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1615	The representative of Åsmund Aukrust has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1620	Youth has engaged and shown its commitment by taking to the streets with a clear message. They have called for a new policy on climate change. Clearly, it has engaged both the Green Party and the SV to take the matter further and promote the same requirements for the Storting. I have to say that I am responding to how the SV and the Greens now want to polarise the debate and try to create a situation that will show that either you are in favour of the climate, or you are against it. There have been very high demands – demands that had not been implemented without major consequences for Norway as a nation, for the Norwegian economy, for jobs and not least for the climate. I want to be clear: no, we are not going to meet the demands made by the SV and the Greens in their proposals today. Why don't we do that? Yes, because then we would have made the future very difficult for many, especially for the young people themselves. One would think of claims that there are no things being done for emission reductions. It is clear that this is the objective of the Green and SV Environment Party: to produce the government's climate policy in this way. But Norway is doing a lot, and we are going to do even more to reduce future emissions. It must be possible to think about both the short and the long term. Norway has its emissions, and we will now reduce them, in cooperation with the EU. Today, however, Norwegian petroleum industry is Norway’s contribution to the Paris Agreement. Norway’s petroleum industry emits 14.7 million. tonnes of CO2, while Europe reduces its emissions by more than 300 million. tonnes by replacing coal with Norwegian gas. It's six times Norway's total emissions. We've come into a situation where there's a lot of attention to the climate in the population, and that's good. But I think most people see that the challenge is global and must be solved globally. It is then important that Norway conclude international agreements that reduce emissions and are driving several such agreements. Finally, it is also important to bear in mind that the head of the Intergovernmental Panel has stated that it is fully possible to operate Norwegian oil and gas activities while taking into account the climate.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1637	This winter and spring, the climate has been put firmly on the agenda of worried children and young people, inspired by Swedish Greta Thunberg. On 22 March we experienced that 40,000 Norwegian children were on a climate strike. We've also experienced the second day. The vast majority of people in this room, I think, recognise climate change as the greatest challenge of our time, and as something that requires changes in politics and not least in how we live our lives. That is why we must also consider how we can reduce greenhouse gas emissions in all matters we deal with – not piecefully and dividedly, not by random proposals, not just here on the Stortinget or in the Energy and Environment Committee, but wherever decisions are taken. A few days ago, as mentioned in the report, Norway continued to increase CO2 emissions through 2018. It shows how difficult this transition is. The increase is probably due to the fact that we use less palm oil, which is good, but at the same time it shows how complex this is. If we are to have an effective policy for the changes needed, the Centre Party is convinced that broad settlements are over time – a policy for the whole that takes complexity inwards, which ensures that the broad spectrum of the population is taken into account, and that we also take into account geographical and social differences. The government parties argue that a climate settlement will delay climate policy. It's turning the problem on your head. Given the cross-political nature of the recognition of the seriousness, we believe that this kind of settlement must be possible and appropriate, as the Stortinget has done in the past with great success, and that it should be implemented again in order to increase the pace and ensure long-term sustainability in an area that will remain on the agenda long after our time. Today we have an almost tropical weather here in the East. Last year we dried away, and the year before it counted the crops in the West away. This shows that climate change also affects Norway. Still, we're lucky. It is the poorest of the poor who will bear the greatest burden. Those who have contributed least to the state of things will also have to bear the heaviest burden. It is deeply unfair, and therefore Norwegian aid policy should be set up in such a way as to contribute more to climate adaptation and to achieving climate objectives. For example, it is unsustainable that a developing country designated as a partner country for Norway in development policy plans and builds fossil energy installations. While cutting greenhouse gas emissions at home, we cannot see that the need for energy from developing countries increases emissions more than three times Norway's annual emissions if plans are realised. Norway must therefore actively use its role as a partner to scrap the plans for new coal-fired power plants by facilitating, stimulating and investing in new renewable energy. I'll bring up the proposal that the Center Party is on.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1652	The representative Ole André Myhrvold has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1657	In the future, Norwegian school students will read about 40,000 climate-stripping students in history books. It will be said that the majority of the population at that time voted against the demands of young people, but it will be more like a curiosity. Although the majority of people today are voting against all the demands of the climate strikers, it is those who will go out victorious. They're right, they'll get right, and they'll be left without shame. The time I went to school, the air-conditioning noise was a distant nightmare, which we thought our grandchildren might be experiencing. We said we were the last generation that didn't experience the consequences of global warming. We're not. The climate threat is noticed here and now, but we are still the generation that can do something to solve the climate crisis. But then it doesn't hold with the shoulder flap and cheer up on the sidelines when the youth strikes. We have to fight the climate crisis, as we have been fighting other environmental problems – environmental problems we did not know when I was young, such as acid rain, forest death, dead fish water and a growing ozone hole. We've solved all of this. The politicians of the day took responsibility, and now it's our turn. Now it's our responsibility. Earlier this week, the news was that Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions have increased. The figures are a manifesto of a government that is totally paralysed by climate policy. The numbers are a mockery of the youth who strikes. The Minister for Climate and Environment said the following about the increase in emissions: ‘The figures from today show that we have to do more of what we are doing.’ No, the government has to do less of what they're doing. They must stop the crazy pace in the allocation of new fields to the oil industry. They have to withdraw the 90 blocks that were released to the oil industry last week. They must stop building giant motorways that increase car traffic, and they must stop the planning of a third runway on the Gardermoen that intends to increase polluting air traffic. This is what the government has to do to meet the demands of climate strikers and not to be left with the shame of history books. With that, I take up the proposals No. 3–9, 10, 14 and 18–26.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1675	The representative Lars Haltbrecken has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1680	We have had an EU election this spring, not so many days ago, which gave environmental parties and green parties around Europe a great boost. Yesterday's elections in Denmark also showed that the environmental parties are on the rise. Radical Left, which is Left's sister party, is selected for election winner in Denmark, but also SF and Enhedslisten have clear environmental requirements. It is these three parties that are the winners of the Danish elections, not the social democrats. They made the second worst choice in their history and may get the Prime Minister, but the climate challenge is put in place by the three parties that the social democrats are totally dependent on to rule on, not least the Radical Left. We also have to put this in a larger context. China, the United States, India and the European continent account for 60 pst. climate change emissions in the world. It also places Norway’s share of this. It doesn't place our responsibility anywhere else. We have a great responsibility in Norway to help do the job of cutting emissions and creating new technologies to cut emissions. It is therefore important to point to international cooperation and the fact that Norway is now linked to EU agreements. It's very important that we cut 40 pst. together. From 2021 we also get a whip over our shoulder. If we do not do our job, the EU can demand that we do more and more in other areas. It's important that we have that whip to keep doing the important job. The representative Ole André Myhrvold said that the growth of emissions in Norway continues. Then we have to look at the historical evolution. In particular, emissions in Norway increased between 1992 and 2000. Gro Harlem Brundtland was the world's first environmental protection minister, but it is also an inheritance from the Workers' Party we have with us. That's when we raised emissions in Norway to record high levels, and that's who we're struggling to get back down. From 2010, emissions in Norway have decreased from more than 55 million tonnes to slightly more than 52.7 million tonnes in 2018. Yes, there was a small growth in 2018, but emissions decreased in both 2016 and 2017. This shows that we're on the right course over time. That is why we need to continue with the measures we are in the process of implementing and to convert the transport sector in particular. But what's causing the growth is that we took 200 million liters of palm oil.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1690	I have to remind the representative that the clock shows errors, so that there is now only 30 seconds left.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1695	We have to keep up the transition we are doing in the transport sector, we have to keep up the pace of electrifying passenger car transport, but we are also in the process of a major shift in public transport. The electrification is now continuing into shipping and is also ongoing in the aircraft sector. These emissions are a great opportunity to reduce in large quantities over time. It's until 2030 that we have to point out, and we have to keep doing the job of cutting emissions every day. It's the day-to-day job that's the task.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1700	Then I have to ask the representative to come in for a landing, because the time is up.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1705	It's okay. I could probably draw myself a new post.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1710	Youths stand outside the Storing and demonstrate, and they demonstrate because the generations before they have led the world into a climate crisis. Greta Thunberg inspired an entire international youth movement, and it's a marshall from those who come after us, on behalf of the world they're going to inherit. Youths see the seriousness, and they expect action. And they have the research on their side. The 1.5-degree report from the IPCC, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, shows that the difference of 1.5-degree heating and greater global warming is enormous. It applies to us in the richer parts of the world, but it is especially true to those of the world's population who are more deferred. If we can't limit the heating, 8 pst can. of the world's population experienced serious water shortages; annual catches of fish could decrease by 82 million. tonnes, and land yields will decrease. Ten million fewer people can lose their homes if we manage to limit climate change, and nearly two billion people can be exposed to extreme heat waves if we don't. I've never known a greater commitment to lower the voting age than when I saw the climate strikers outside the Storting. This is an expression and an effort that the world needs. The whole Energy and Environment Committee of the United Kingdom recognises that climate change is the biggest challenge in our time. All parties say that our generation is the last one to do anything about it. But the outburst from the climate strikers reaches far outside the staging room, and we're forced to change our habits. We have to create a balanced society, and then we have to stop polluting. The change we have to go through is going to cost, and we have to add to the bad habits we have that we've put into good times. And that's where young people's efforts play a role, both when they demonstrate, and when they put older generations to other wall locations. Climate change is a battle that must be won every single time, every single day, not once in a while in the Stortinget. The good news is that we're partly on the way. We have good climate settlements in our backs, we have put in place a climate law as a hub, and the Paris agreement is a step forward. Since the students had a strike for the first time, Stortinget has been given an agreement on climate change with the EU for treatment, a commitment. The Oil Fund, following decisions, has said that it will withdraw 80 billion. kr from oil and gas companies. They can now open up to invest in renewable, unlisted infrastructure projects. We have seen world record in electric cars, and the Minister for Development has stated that Norway should contribute more in countries where climate change is most severe, for example. by doubling the green climate fund. No one says these measures are enough to resolve the climate crisis. The proposals from the SV and the Green Party are not enough either. We have to do more, but we are in the process, and the Christian People's Party will not forget the cry of youth.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1723	On Saturday, a couple of dozens of FrPs demonstrated against their own toll policy. Toll resistance in Norway is in the process of triggering a government crisis. On 22 March this year, 40,000 children and young people demonstrated against the government's climate policy. It triggered smiling, nodding confirmations that in climate policy — yes, there the government is probably already doing. The same thing was repeated by the Council of State Elvesuen in debate with me in the NRK and in the VG this week: the government is already doing everything they can. It in itself scares me. That emissions are increasing in our time is a political scandal. Since 1990, Norwegian climate emissions have increased by 3.4 pst. The requirements of climate strikers are 60 pst. discharge. I'm gonna feel bad standing here. I am disappointed that Norway is among the few countries in Europe that have increased emissions. I am disappointed that the government's response to climate strikes is to summon so-called climate events where they ask young people what they are doing to live more climate friendly. I'm embarrassed and cursed that the government is failing for generations to come. Because it is not true that the government is pursuing an ambitious climate policy. On the contrary, they sabotage climate work in many areas. Emissions from road traffic rose last year, including because the government subsidizes fossil cars. The government set a new record in the distribution of oil licences, the government builds highways at record speed, the government goes in to build a third runway on the Gardermoen, which will lead to increased emissions in aviation traffic, which was also one of the reasons for increased emissions last year. If the globe needs us to halve the emissions over the next eleven years, but we don't because we think it's a little politically difficult -- yes, we're just making trouble for ourselves. When the climate map doesn't match the climate grid, the map we have to change. That is why the Greens have promoted the demands of climate strikers on Stortinget. We say yes to 60 pst. discharge. We're saying yes to $65 billion. kr in climate action to developing countries each year, and we say no to new oil licences. We are voting to declare the climate crisis, and we are voting in favour of a controlled phasing out of the oil and gas industry. We are voting in favour of a new, ambitious climate settlement and for the government to say no to a new runway on the Gardermo. We are voting in favour of those who are too young today to have the right to vote and who must live with the consequences of the policy we adopt in this Chamber. With that, I will take up the proposals of the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1734	The representative of Une Bastholm has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1739	Sometimes you get new heroes. In the spring, I've got over 40,000 new heroes. What do you do with education if you don't have a future? Thousands of researchers have provided vast amounts of knowledge about how we destroy nature and climate, and what we can do to reverse development. But what are we going to do when the controllers blow it? Politicians struggle to use the greatest words, but to do least. Instead of crisis meetings on climate and biodiversity, the government has crisis meetings on tolls. Although parts of the Progress Party deny knowledge of climate change, it is the hidden climate dissidents that are really dangerous, those who recognise the conclusions of climate researchers, but refuse to realise what is required of political and economic changes here and now, such as the Right Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Labour Party's insistence on a climate-damaging oil policy. The UN Panel on Nature shows how we are about to eradicate one million species and destroy ecosystems. It shows that economic growth and increased consumption are the key driving forces behind it. We can't have unlimited growth on a planet with limited resources. We can't look for more oil when it's already found too much. We have to reduce the consumption and stop the growth. The climate problem and environmental damage can be stopped, but the economy must stop growing. At the top of the wealth pyramid there are many living in absurd abundance today. Then we need to redistribute from the richest to those who have the least. We need an economic system that puts nature's tolerance limits and human basic needs at the top. It is contrary to today's economic system, which is based on growth and undemocratic power. Since the first UN climate report in 1990, capitalism has failed to stop climate change and failed to combat inequality. Youth has the right to rebel. They have no responsibility for society as it is today. Yet, it is those who see how today’s paralysis eventually becomes their problem. Without the right to vote, ownership and rule, they use the historical strike power to promote claims on behalf of themselves and everyone who comes after. The climate strikes give me hope. They show a maturity and a responsibility all in this room have something to learn from. Red is on with the future. We're on the hook with the kids. I am promoting this Red's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1752	The representative Seher Aydar has drawn up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1757	There is no doubt that the world is in a climate crisis. It underlines the 1.5 degree report of the United Nations, with a dramatic difference of 1.5 degree heating and 2 degree heating, if you lose 70 pst. of coral reefs or nearly 100 pst. Of coral reefs - then it's just to think about how much worse it could get by 3 and 4 degrees, which is what the world is now heading for. There is no doubt that we need to do much more to reach what is necessary to limit global warming to less than 1.5 degrees. Climate-stripping young people and Greta Thunberg have been involved in changing the discussion around the world over the last year, mobilising in a way that neither environmental organisations nor parties have done before. It's important. But the 1.5-degree report shows two things. The first is serious, and the second is that the only way to avoid heating, that is to say cutting enough, is to move forward – innovation, leadership, innovation, new business development – to get it done. Then it's like the government has to do more of what we're doing. We must continue to bet on public transport, bicycles and corridors in the big cities, which are increasing. We have to keep betting on the railway, which had an increase of 5 pst. last year. We have to keep betting on a zero-emission vehicle. The electric car part of the new car sales has gone from below 5 pst. in 2013 to 46 pst. So far this year, and we're just going to sell zero-emission cars in 2025. We must start with the same conversion of heavy transport, where we will have a new support system this year. We need a green shipping conversion. We have 80 ferries coming into service in Norway, and bigger and larger ships need to be built. I have asked for an investigation from various directorates on how to get 50 pst. reduction of Norwegian emissions by 2030. We are also working to strengthen the EU's target of 55 pst. Norway needs to take greater international responsibility. We have further increased efforts to conserve rainforest, we are going to double the efforts of the International Climate Fund, and we have increased efforts on renewable energy. We need to do much more, but Norway is also in the forefront to make the necessary changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1772	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1778	In most countries in the world, there are arguments about who should be in government. In Norway, the opposite is the case, where you argue about who's going out. Young Left said this week that it is the Left, not the Advance Party, who have reason to threaten to leave the government. Leader of the Young Left stated: «As long as we are in a government that does not cut enough emissions, it is difficult for us to defend government participation. When emissions now rise by 0.4 per cent it is clear that this is not good enough.’ My question to Ola Elvestuen is whether he agrees. Can he continue to be the climate minister in 2019 in a Norway increasing emissions?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1788	Emissions are going down. I am happy to say that in 2019 we saw that the sales of petroleum products in Norway have decreased by 7.46 p.m.. When we were here last year, I think the representative Haltbrecken believed that our discharge shots were bathed in palm oil. It was the main criticism, so we've reduced the use of palm oil by two thirds. This means that — yes — in last year’s emissions there was an increase because there is not enough advanced biofuels. But with the change and what we now see, both with electric cars and with the reduction of petroleum products, it still goes in the right direction. From 2015 until now there has been a reduction in emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1793	I really didn't get an answer to what I asked for, because what I asked about was whether Ola Elvestuen can continue to be a climate minister in a government that increases emissions. I think it's amazing that he doesn't answer that no, he can't be. His job is to get the emissions down, and if he does not succeed in that job, he should no longer be in that job. So he says the emissions are going the right way. Well, he's been a minister for a year, and in one year the emissions actually went up. Then we hear there's a certain crack in the government team. I want to get to grips with what was Terje Halleland's posts. He said that Norway’s main contribution to the Paris Agreement is Norwegian petroleum production. Does the Minister for Climate Change agree with the members of the Committee on Climate Change in this House at Stortinget that this is our main contribution to reaching the Paris agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1802	I think where we are at the forefront is within transport – where we are using zero-emission technologies in the case of electric cars, shows how fast this change can come. We're doing the same thing now in heavy transport, and we're doing it in shipping. We also have a significant international responsibility, where we are the biggest contributor to many of the major projects – taking care of nature, developing new renewable energy technologies, and then also what goes on shipping. I think that's where we have the most important contribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1807	Climate strikes have important points. Some of the climate strikers will experience is growing forest. Forests are important for achieving climate objectives. It's important both as a forest itself, with the diversity of nature it represents, but it's also an important resource for the change we're going through, from the oil and gas based to the green. It is important for energy, products, buildings and installations, and it captures and stores CO2. The Stortinget is now invited to join the EU's climate goals, but the Centre Party is experiencing some confusion in this respect. Can the Council of State guarantee that Norway will be able to recognise its objective of forest use by the EU and that we are not moving in a direction where we need to lower the level of use of forests and use it as measures to achieve the other objectives of the non-quota sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1814	The agreement does not provide any guidance on how to conduct our forest policy. We decide that ourselves, and we decide for ourselves how much of a crop we're going to have. This is about whether we get a crop that means that one has to have compensatory measures in other areas, but no one decides how much can be harvested. With the path we have provided to the EU, which we believe is based on the legislation underpinning the EU, we believe that there is room for an increase in the harvesting of Norwegian forests.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1819	We can't talk about climate without talking about oil. It's the oil business in Norway that hurts the climate most of all we do, and that's where it's most urgent – and most important – to cut. In environmental policy it is not far enough to prohibit non-reusable plastics or to prohibit the cultivation of new ants. These are good measures, but it is too small, and that is not what this movement of climate-stripping young people is asking for. Earlier this week, the Council of State told Elvesuen that all trends are moving in the right direction, except for the total number. I wonder, how can the Council of State say that things are going well, and that everything points in the right direction, when Norway does not contribute anything to the climate in total?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1826	I'm not saying it's going well, and it's not going fast enough, but what we're doing is right. It is right to reduce the use of palm oil; it is right to increase the consumption and demand for the good biofuel; it is right to continue the placing on a zero-emission vehicle. Because it's not just that we have to stop production and that it's the decisive one; demand also has to be limited, and it has to be limited internationally, and we have to show how it can be done. We are doing so today with an electric car revolution no other country in the world is near. We're going to deploy new technologies in heavy transport. There we are now launching new support schemes within Enova. We're doing things in shipping that no other country is close to getting to yet, and we're doing things in areas like this. emission-free or fossil-free construction sites. In the area by area we have to do more and get the pace up, but what we do is still right.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1836	The world needs Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions to fall sharply. It is well and good to adapt to a demand that already exists, but as politicians, we also have the opportunity to implement demand-creating measures. We don't have to wait for the rest of the world to do anything to reduce its emissions, we can go first. What is the Council of State going to do to make it happen?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1841	I have asked the Environment Directorate and other directorates to come back with how we can cut Norwegian emissions by at least 50 pst. until 2030, and I'll bring a case to Stortinget for next year on how to cut emissions by at least 45 pst. in transport, agriculture, housing – in non-quota sectors. It's coming next year. We are also actively working towards the EU in order to increase their level of ambition, up to 55 pst, which lies in the Granavolden platform. And we're doing this at the same time as we're going to step up our efforts and get results this year and until we come up with new plans.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1846	The Council of State repeatedly confirms that the government is doing a lot of work. Nevertheless, emissions are rising, and they do not just because we've taken out that palm oil, which should never have been in the biofuel; they do because this government is subsidising fossil cars, it's building up a lot of highways, so for example. more sales of heavy oil to plants and machinery have led to more emissions last year. It will expand aerodromes. Air traffic is increasing in Norway today, when we have a climate crisis. What worries me most about everything is that the Council of State, which is responsible for climate policy in Norway, cannot even admit that the government is, of course, also pursuing a policy that increases emissions in Norway. That's the main problem. The main problem is not the 80 electric boats that we are waiting for in 2021 and 2022; the main problem is that the government is giving incentives for more emissions while at the same time doing something else with the other hand. So can I get a clarification as to whether the Council of State does not agree that the government could of course have done more to cut emissions in the short term?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1854	Of course, there are dilemmas, such as the fact that building more railways – which we also do to a much greater extent than before – is contributing to increasing emissions in the short term because we have not received fossil-free construction sites. So we have to do more of what we're doing, both in the transport sector and elsewhere. There are two areas where we have increases: it's this with construction sites, where we have to achieve the goal of making them fossil-free by 2020-2025, and it's in shipping, where we have an increase. There comes a separate action plan. Much is happening, but it takes time for the new ships with lower emissions to actually be built.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1861	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1866	There's little that gives me more hope for the future than seeing the extent of the climate strikes we've seen this spring. Around the world, from my home municipality of Levanger to Cape Town in South Africa, Montevideo in Uruguay and Roma in Italy, hundreds of thousands of young people have taken to the streets to protest. These young people are taking part in school strikes in protesting against a lack of understanding of the colossal consequences of the climate crisis and against the unwill of politicians to do something with them. The message from the original women of the school strikes, Greta Thunberg, is as simple as it is harsh: why should we young people care about our future when no one else does it? To that I have no good answer, except that we politicians must begin to care. Because, as politicians, if we are serious about the words that the climate crisis is the greatest challenge of our time, why is it not happening? By the end of this week, we could sadly conclude that Norway’s contribution to international climate change is of a direct negative nature. While the world's leading researchers in the field say that we have eleven years to prevent a complete devastating climate disaster, Norway's total greenhouse gas emissions are rising. It's not to believe. It is not a worthy political response to the crisis we are now facing. One might wonder if our government has understood the seriousness. At least it seems very illogical to me to have to understand that our world is facing a imminent global disaster, so that it does not help prevent it from happening. When the UN Climate Panel says that 2030 is the deadline to avoid global temperatures rising by more than 1.5 degrees, the time for action is here. There's no doubt in my mind that history's judgment over our time's politics will be horrific, if we don't do more than what we do today. It applies to all parties and society as a whole, but it's now once again the government's responsibility here today. A reasonable starting point for doing something more is a planned and accurate measurable reduction in our greenhouse gas emissions. Through the budget for our emissions, we can in future assess the cost of the planet versus the benefit of our government budget. By getting clear and clear to us in all our important decisions how we as a country can cut where cuts are most needed, both government and magnification will have far greater problems than today pretending not to know the consequences of the choices made. The time for empty promises is over. The time for action is here. There's no more time left to sit still and watch the world burn. It is high time that the country's politicians took the biggest environmental and climate protests in history seriously and began to meet our young people. It's this generation that will inherit the planet, and now it's up to today's politicians to deliver a viable planet to the adults of the future. To continue today's emissions drive is to close the eyes of a notified disaster. The Day After Tomorrow is soon here.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1881	Many thousands of Norwegian school students have recently taken a strike from school to show that politicians are not doing enough on climate change. Now that we're dealing with the strikers' demands today, we have to vote for these demands, because the demands are perfectly reasonable. We cannot grant new extraction permits to the oil companies in Norway. We need to increase Norway's climate target to 60 pst. emissions cut by 2030. We need to have a climate focus in aid. We have to stop expanding a third runway on the Gardermo. We must have cheaper public transport for young people in order for them to establish sustainable environmentally friendly travel habits. All five measures will make Norway more responsible for the climate. On Monday morning it became clear that this is absolutely necessary, when the Central Bureau presented figures that the Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions have actually risen in the last year, while our neighbouring countries cut their emissions. There have been larger and smaller climate strikes in all the counties of Norway, and politicians have been invited. Several have appeared and said that they value the commitment shown by the students, but these laws do not mean anything if not the same politicians also vote for the requirements of the Stortinge today. The world over, millions of young people have been fighting for climate action. The enormous movement launched by Greta Thunberg lacks parallel in world history. The message given to us in this room today could not be clearer, and as elected representatives, we must be in line with the people and meet the demands of the strikers today. None of us in this room are selected here on behalf of just ourselves. We're all chosen to represent someone, and then we have to listen when the ones we represent say from above. Especially young people who are not themselves elective or able to vote when they are under 18, need us as elected voters to listen to. Never have so many young people ever said so clearly and crystal clear that they need a new direction. They have said that they want a planet they can live on, and that shouldn't be too much to expect.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1896	We are living in a climate crisis. This must be case no. one today and all the way until we have solved this climate crisis and come to a sustainable world, a sustainable economy and a net zero-emission situation. It's going to take many years, it's going to be demanding, it's going to be extensive, and it requires changes in other areas. Youth has understood this. I was born in the 1960s. From the industrial revolution began to approx. The day I was born, the world had only been warmed up by 0.25 degrees. Three-quarters of the heating has happened in my lifetime. It's not just my fault – there are many who have been involved in this, billions of people – but it has happened in my lifetime. The continued warming is much faster, so many of those living now realize that early in their lifetime they are going to reach a world where climate change is very dramatic, while perhaps many in this room will experience it toward the end of their lifetime. Therefore, this is not just a message from youth; it is a message from the future for those who are actually able to place themselves in the future and look back to the present. The answer must be to put this at the top of all political matters, and then we have to focus on what we're going to do less of, but also on what we're going to do more of. How can we create an economy that takes care of both the climate and the environment and at the same time delivers the necessities of life that people on earth have? How can we link growth in emissions and growth in resource depletion from normal economic growth? That's true, but it requires a much more comprehensive approach to politics. That is what I say at a time marked by fragmentation and individual things. Many have already found that according to parts of the government, there is a toll crisis that characterizes the country, not the climate crisis. I think that's very serious because it also says something about how to focus on individual things and not on the whole. We believe that this is the time for a climate deal, not only because of young people's demands, but also because we know a lot more than we knew in the previous climate deal. It is very difficult for me to understand that the majority and government do not accept the invitation to sit down and think through the whole of this in an active and good way. We're going to run climate aid; there's been more going on. It is very important that this becomes a much more dominant part of Norway's aid efforts, and we need to make sector-wide climate budgets with concrete plans. It is fine with high targets, but it is even more important to have concrete plans for achieving those targets. We have to create them now, and I hope that we can create them together, because then they will also be much easier to defend for those who will notice them in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1909	When there was a climate strike outside here, I photographed a poster, and there it was – in English correctly, but I read it in Norwegian: you know it's time for change when children behave like leaders, and leaders behave like children. And it's time. I hear more say that now we know so much more. But I've lived for a while, and we actually have this too for a while – it's not new. So there is a climate crisis, and in Norway, a government party is calling for a crisis meeting to be allowed to pollute cheaper. They are voting against all new initiatives if they say that we have heard more today. It's not the change that's going to happen. We have to stop what we have to end with. We have to stop new oil spills, we have to stop giant motorways, we have to turn resources and our efforts into what we're going to live on in the future, because we can cut dangerous climate emissions and create jobs and make money. That's all right. But then we can't go on with what we can't live on and that hurts us. We need to turn risk relief and resources into what is renewable. Then we can have a safe future. If we don't, the others will do it, and then we're really stuck with the harmful effects and the beard in the mailbox. And those who come after us, how do they get it? I heard it was one from the Progress Party who was up here and thought that this was terribly bad, taking into account the climate. No, it is not to stop the dangerous climate change that is expensive, bad and impossible. In addition, climate change is exacerbating and exacerbating conflicts in the world. And a party like the Progress Party, which is so livingly afraid of a refugee coming to this country, should be at first in the fight to stop the dangerous climate change, for those countries that are in conflict and instability, first and worst, are hit by the areas of the world where it is difficult to survive today, and it will be worse. It is not possible to run oil drilling for climate, as someone believes in this hall. We just have to stop doing that. It's going to make the world safer for us, for those who come after us, and for other parts of the world. So it's getting clearer and clearer that the Progress Party has to leave the government if we're going to make it. There are many things to be done, and there are many good proposals that are being made today. Everyone has to do a lot in many areas. The municipal sector is one of them. There I have a great responsibility, and I also hope that the parties in Stortinget will now see that we must enable the municipalities to take this responsibility, so that they have both the competence and the resources to take part in this important job.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1922	In January 2008, the then leader of the Left, Lars Sponheim, called me. I was a local councillor in Trondheim at the time. He said, "Today we've made a deal on the Biggest on the Climate Challenges." But Jon, he said, two thirds of these measures must be done in the municipalities, where people live, with local measures. Lars Sponheim had a point and called around to everyone who had central positions in the municipalities. This was also done by Jens Stoltenberg, who was then head of the Workers' Party and Prime Minister. He called the rapporteur in Trondheim, Rita Ottervik – she is still rapporteur, so she has endured for a long time – and gave the same message. Then we launched a policy in Trondheim with clear objectives of reducing CO2 emissions. This had to be done in particular through transport policy. We are now in 2019, and we set targets for 2020, and we have achieved all the targets. This applies to several cities. Oslo was in front of us. Bergen and Stavanger have done the same. And now we've gotten them eventually, maybe a little bit of famous urban growth agreements, which are going to enable us to push this forward. It's a good tool, where you have a national and municipal spice layer to help solve the climate crisis. On 9 September it will be municipal elections. Several representatives have mentioned that there have been important choices globally in recent years, including: to the European Parliament and Denmark yesterday, and several environmental parties have done well in those elections. Let us prepare the reason why there will be an environmental debate and a climate debate in the future against the municipal elections. I think many people will agree to both debate it and, not least, to take action. I heard Tore Storehaug say he was happy at the age of 16. It has always been the Left, especially in local elections. The climate crisis is here, the climate strike is here, and the climate debate is here – the municipal elections should be a climate choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1935	– I don’t want you to be filled with hope, I want you to panic. I want you to feel the fear I feel every day, and then I want you to act. I want you to act like our house is on fire. That's what Greta Thunberg said. That is why we are here today, in many ways, because Greta, with its actions and its opinions, has launched a massive movement of people, several million students have fought throughout the world, with a very clear message – a message that they must act with power. If not, we don't have a future to go to school for. We know what we have to do, and we know that it's extremely urgent. Nevertheless, last year Norway increased its greenhouse gas emissions. For every year we are the victims, the worse it will be for both the environment and people. The big changes that are coming will only hit harder the longer we wait. The climate crisis is about justice. If we count on how much Norway has emitted from greenhouse gases, and how much wealth it has given us, we have to cut all our emissions five times to take our fair share of the job. It's about justice when 60 pst. Of the world’s emissions, 90 individual companies — large groups still serving billions of dollars to emit greenhouse gases. The only environmental policy that can win over the climate crisis is the one that acknowledges that we are not actually in the same boat. It also says Greta Thunberg. The climate battle is a struggle between those who are responsible for the crisis and those who can pay off the consequences of it on the one hand, and us who are hit on the other: my generation, the global south, common people. That's why we have to listen to Greta when she calls for a more radical environmental policy that says no to eternal growth, and uses the muscles of the community to control the economy for a green and fair transformation. SV listens to the increasing climate uprising. That is why we have promoted the climate strike's demand for action here today. I would also like to explain the solutions we have put forward. Because yesterday the youth parties on the civil side presented some climate requirements to their own government. We thought those requirements were quite good, so we should help the government to listen to their own youth, and therefore we have promoted the proposals that resolve the matter today. Because we have to turn the massive climate uprising into a turning point in the climate struggle. We want a future to go to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1958	Yes, there are measures that can do something about climate emissions, and those climate cuts must be man-made. The majority here has said that we're going to cut by 50 pst. in the transport sector. It is one of the major challenges for Norway now. We have decided to cancel the CO 2 fee by 5 pst. annual until 2025. It's very important to twist the consumption. To create a market and make money on climate change, create innovation, create new technologies, it has to be more expensive to pollute. We put a lot of money into carbon capture and storage and have a good opportunity to also create new jobs from it and use wells in the North Sea to store and take the carbon out of the atmosphere. Electrification of the socket is another good option Norway has to cut emissions, and we put it at 1.3 billion. kr more to Enova than in 2013, SEK 3.2 billion. this year. We have said in the government statement that we will be a low-carbon society in 2050 and cut 90–95 pst. Climate change adaptation is also a major challenge, and in particular in the north-south perspective, it is very important for Norway to go ahead and contribute, to continue as we have done with the rain forest fund, and also to put on in the green climate fund. In Norway too, there are good reasons for action, because it costs us a lot. Only last year cost us 2 billion in the summer and lost agricultural crops. kr. It says something about what situation we're in, and how cheap it is to prevent. Then we also have to take a tour of Sweden. Greta Thunberg is pointed to as one who has driven a popular movement, and it is very good that young people press and are impatient and create the debates on how important it is to take action. But Sweden has a government of the social democrats and the greens, and also in Sweden, emissions rose in 2018. This requires action every day, and it does not depend on which party is in government. This is demanding. So there's no reason to be horrified that in Norway it's the government's fault. Every day, the Left fights for the tolls and the urban packages and urban growth agreements. We have to get a collective offer that makes it easier to take the bus and the tram. There are not so many tram cities in Norway, so the bus has an important task. I challenge back: what are the Social Democrats and the Labour Party – the Red-Green Party – and the Environment Party in Norway going to do differently than in Sweden, than what we are doing, and the cuts we're pointing at to do this by 2030? [[The President clubs.]] And that's not how we have adopted a third runway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1976	Taking young people seriously is not only to commend them for their commitment, but actually to listen to what they require. Right, Left and Christian People's Party boasts them quite fine here, but does the opposite in government. Redly, the demands of climate strikers are supported because the world is facing an environmental and climate crisis, and if we do not change course now, Norway will remain as a country that actually benefited from the climate crisis. That's not the legacy I want my aunt's children to have after me. The crisis is driven by economic growth and high consumption. We take out too many resources from nature, store too much garbage and emit too much greenhouse gases. Therefore, Red promotes proposals that will help to slow down growth. Longer warranty periods will move us away from the use-and-throat society. The state-owned enterprises can no longer be profit-driven. Consideration of climate and biodiversity should be the central objective of activities such as State Forest, State Power and Equinor. In addition, Red will support all the opposition proposals, with the exception of the MDG climate assistance proposals. That is where we are promoting our own proposal. We agree with the climate strikers that climate aid to vulnerable peoples and countries in the south needs to be considerably increased. Norway’s support for adaptation is heavily underfunded, but to give 65 billion. kr only for the UN Green Climate Fund is not a good solution. That is why we are promoting a proposal to use existing investigations and escalation plans, developed by Norwegian environmental and development organisations in cooperation with research institutions. These provide for a rapid escalation of support for emissions reduction and adaptation of use on more channels than only the United Nations Green Climate Fund. In addition, it strengthens the commitment to renewable energy and forest conservation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e1986	Last year the government's climate policy bathed in palm oil. This year it bathes in increased emissions. Let there be no doubt that we are pleased that the use of palm oil has been reduced in Norway, but that is not the government's honour. It is the oil companies that have listened to the strong protests of the people. The government would not introduce any measures against the crazy palm oil use until 1 January 2020, i.e. in half a year. Some have stressed in the debate the importance of Norway contributing to emissions reductions in other countries, that Norway contributes to the financing of clean energy. Yes, it is vital that Norway does. But then Røjres representative Stefan Heggelund stands on the platform and boasts that the government has increased the appropriations for renewable energy in developing countries – after the first government did when it joined in 2013, it was to halve these appropriations. Then you've increased it somewhat in recent years, but you're still not at the level you were when the red-green left the government offices in 2013. To give a picture of it, let's say that the representative Heggelund took up honest work as a cod tongue cutter. He was well paid, but after a short time at work he was told that the salary was more than half-paid. Within six years, he got the job up to almost the level it was at when he started out as a cod heifer. Would the representative Heggelund have boasted of this employer? I don't think so. Finally, I have a small change to SV's loose proposal No. 24th@item: inlistbox It shall read as follows: ‘The government asks the government to present a plan for reduced car traffic in urban areas and that all growth in passenger transport in metropolitan areas is taken with collective bicycles and corridors.’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e2000	That is when the proposal is corrected.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e2005	I like it very much when a politician asks another politician to get an honest job. Then I think like this: by itself you know others. So the representative Haltbrecken knows of course well that cod cutting is a highly esteemed activity in my family. I'm very happy that I've had an honest job before I got in here. The representative, Mr Haltbrecken, also did. He was the leader of the Nature Conservation Federation. What did he do? Yes, he begged Right for help in climate policy when the red-green government crashed, because the Socialist Left Party had such a bad climate policy. And he got that help -- he got it. How he nevertheless ended up in SV, a party he himself believes has failed in climate policy, is a mystery to gods. Now he belongs to a party that says they will do everything in their power to bring down greenhouse gas emissions, except – of course – the very important thing to cooperate on renewable energy in Europe. No, it's not going to be a part of bringing down fossil consumption in Europe. We are fully aware of the need to increase climate finance, and we are delivering policies that ensure it. Nor is it right, what the representative Bastholm says, that youth climate summits are just about what the youth can do. It's directly wrong. If Bastholm had been at a youth's climate summit, she would have known that. She had also seen another thing, that it is not that just because you go to high school, you automatically agree with the Greens' Environment Party in all the measures they propose. It may be thought that there are other parties that have better measures to reduce emissions. But the worst thing today may be that the Greens are actually proposing, together with the Socialist Left, to vote in order to deprive the Stortinget of power in climate policy. They will deprive Stortinget of powers in climate policy, i.e. that the Storting should no longer have anything to do with climate policy. This is the reality of the proposals by the Socialist Left and the Greens alone voting for today. I believe that we need a resolute staging, and that the Stortinget should definitely be involved in continuing to cut Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e2020	I would like to draw the House's attention to proposal No. 14, promoted by Lars Haltbrecken on behalf of SV. School students throughout the country strike, demanding not to grant new extraction licences to oil companies. Therefore, SV is proposing today to withdraw the call for TFO 2019, which offers new oil exploration for 90 oil blocks, of which more than half are located in the vulnerable northern regions of the Barents Sea. The demand from the strikers for no new oil is sensible policy for Norway, but above all it is something we owe to other countries. Global climate justice is much of the basis for my own environmental exposure. In recent years we have noticed more drought and flooding in Norway, but countries in the global south have marked climate change for much longer. These are poorer countries, who suddenly do not have clean water or the ability to grow their own food because richer countries, such as Norway, make money to export climate change. We have a bunch from Nature and Youth in the gallery here today. In almost all Nature and Youth flyers ever says the slogan: ‘The climate changes are dangerous, unfair and already underway.’ I'm afraid that's the facts. Nature and Youth have also often used the slogan: «If not you, who? If not now, when?’ It may seem like a simple and small punching slogan, but in my view it is a very timely question. Because if Norway – with its economic and technological opportunities to do so – does not change from the oil age, who will? And if it's not going to happen now – in the midst of a climate crisis that is fading after new climate action – when is that going to happen? A natural place to start is to withdraw the call for TFO 2019, with all the incomprehensible new oil allocations lying there.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e2041	There is no doubt in my mind that the climate challenge is real, and that the world has to do something. For those who believe that climate change does not exist, that they are not man-made, or that they are a Chinese conspiracy theory: it is wrong. The challenge is real. It's here, and we have to do something about it. We're actually doing something about it. We've increased our ambitions to 45 pst. Cut, cut, Norway helps Europe achieve its emissions targets by using Norwegian gas. We keep rainforest, we use flexibility and quota purchases – and the list could continue. But there is something other than discussing whether to declare a national crisis or not. Although a few other countries have done so, and some red and green local governments around the country have done so, this is not a good argument for the country's national assembly to do so either. Declaring a crisis or some sort of emergency – a state of emergency – is something most associate with April 9, the King's no, 9/11, etc., not with an ongoing crisis over a long period of time, which we are going to solve now, and at least not with a third runway on the Gardermoen or Norwegian gas production in the North Sea, which actually leads to lower emissions in the world, either SV and the Green Party like it or not. The reality is that emissions in Norway have fallen over a long period of time. Each capita emits almost 20 pst. less now than they did in 1990. This is because we have had an offensive climate policy over a long period of time. State Council Elvesuen runs the country around and kisses emissions every day. So the opposition would say that the emissions are going up. This government could have nicely decorated the numbers with uncritical blending palm oil. Then the emissions had dropped in Norway, but they had increased in the world, and we had deforestation. We're not doing that. We could shut down the gas cock overnight. Emissions had decreased in Norway, but they had increased in Europe. We're not doing that. In addition, we could not finance the rainforest campaign, as I mentioned, and the other positive climate measures. The measures we are implementing must therefore be considered, not that we are simply moving emissions from Norway to other countries. I see that the inhabitants, people in Norway, are more concerned with the environment and climate than ever. That is why we also need to cultivate what is positive about people's climate and environmental exposure, not to play on fear, to shame people, whether it is flight shame, car shame or flesh shame. It doesn't help the climate, so let's do what has the greatest climate effect, rather than doing what has the most symbolic effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e2052	The world is facing a serious and fundamental climate crisis. We have to cut the emissions by 40-50 pst. globally towards 2030, and we need to reduce to net zero emissions by 2050. That's another 32 years. What we have to do is get a world that stops using coal. We have to end with fossil fuels in all terms as fast as we can. We have to cut emissions in the industry. We need to establish and build climate-friendly cities. We have to take care of nature. Taking care of nature is 30 pst. from the solution to 2030. While doing this, we need to establish and develop a circular economy in order to conserve resources much better. We also need to develop and implement carbon capture and storage technologies. In this, Norway must take a leading role in Norway, and we must use the main instrument we have in the world, which is the Paris Agreement. It must be reinforced, and ambitions must be strengthened in all countries, while at the same time being able to mobilize from below. We cannot achieve these objectives unless we mobilise communities, businesses, organisations, countries and governments to achieve and drive the change that is necessary. A climate settlement is requested. However, Stortinget now has two options: one is the issue in Stortinget, which will provide a framework for policy in Norway by 2030, with a joint implementation with the EU. The second is what I and the government have started, a new climate cure for 2030, that is, our colleges and directorates are looking at and presenting how we can get at least 50 pst. emission reductions up to 2030. I think it's wise for both the government and others to look at the advice we get before we present and choose the right actions. Just because you're going to make a plan, nobody's waiting for action. We still have the targets we're going to achieve by 2020, and we're going to implement and drive out what's going on with emissions every day. It's a huge task that both we and the world are facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e2065	This debate illustrates well why the government does not get to act on climate. Stefan Heggelund says that all countries have to cut their emissions, but in Norway they are increasing. The climate minister talks about public transport in the big cities the day after the Minister of Finance has demanded that everything be scrapped. Terje Halleland believes that Norway’s main contribution to the Paris agreement is Norwegian oil and gas. And Ketil Kjeseth was most concerned about talking about the 1990s. The answer to this is action paralysis and increased emissions. At best, it appears that it is comical when the representative after the representative of the government parties says that we are on the right course. The truth is, we're not close to being on the right track. We're heading for a climate disaster. If all countries had done what they promised to do, the world's temperature would have risen by three degrees. But the world is not about to do what it has promised to do, especially Norway. In Norway, emissions are increasing. Erna Solberg went to the elections to strengthen the climate agreement. After six years we know the phase: there will be no reinforcement. We're not even close to achieving the goals that were set. That is not nice, because from this government there is no climate initiative. When I asked the Minister of Industry in the Questionnaire if he could explain where we were in view of the climate agreement and our climate objectives, he replied that he did not know what our objectives were for either 2020 or 2030. He also performed to say that this was not his area. When the Minister of Industry believes that climate policy and our climate objectives are not his job, you don't have to scratch your mouth and wonder why we're going wrong. The truth is, everyone has to do their own, nationally and locally. I think Jon Gunnes from the Left made a good contribution on what they have done in Trondheim, and how the Workers' Party and the Left took the marshaller they got from Jens Stoltenberg and Lars Sponheim. It is precisely this cooperation on policies in and around the big cities that are now at stake when the Minister of Finance demands that this be done. Finally, Ketil Kjenseth was concerned that the liberal parties did well in the European elections. That's right, they did it well in many places. The truth is that they did well both because they have results in climate policy and because they have stood up to right-wing populism. Then you can see yourself in the mirror and wonder why the Norwegian Left wraps around about 2-3 pst. Finally, let me make a explanation of vote: we are going to vote in favour of the motions. 21 and 24. Proposal No. 24 has been moderated, and we are voting for the moderated proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e2080	It is tempting to say, 'Well spoken, Auchrust!' I join every word. First a little visit to the representative Storehaug of the Christian People's Party. SV now has a constitutional proposal on the voting rights of 16-year-olds, precisely because they are both wise and see what is needed. I am also convinced that they will take care of me when I am old. But I've checked the setting, and I can't see that the Christian People's Party supports this view. I hope Storehaug does. What's the problem with today's politics is that we're getting more and more committed to what we have to end with. We are more and more committed and becoming more dependent on oil and gas for each allocation given by the government. That's what's a problem. We have to stop using fossil fuels, says the Minister for Climate and Environment, and then the government continues to distribute licences. It also binds investment, all the smart minds, all those who want to invent the new jobs that are climate friendly, to something that is and should be a sunset industry. It's serious, because it's urgent. It's not easy to convert. It takes time, but you have to do it, point out the course and do not continue with the course that is wrong. It must cost more to pollute. It's quite obvious. Nor does the government's policy target, because it increases disparities and makes it a difficult problem for its low-paid and disadvantaged people. If we're going to solve this, we're going to have to solve it in a way that makes those who have the strongest back, also carry the heaviest scale. Several have said that the protection of nature is important, parallel to the climate crisis, and so is it. Then it is extremely important that the government we now have should also be with the Swedish authorities when we want to ensure competence in the protection of nature in the municipalities. What the government has done is to give municipalities greater authority over their land policies – the state should say less when climate, environment and natural qualities are threatened. It's about nature, and it's about soil protection, and it's happening all over the country now. Local politicians do not have competence in the municipal sector to help them cope with the enormous pressure they are facing in some areas, which are just attacking the natural values that the Minister for Climate and Environment says are important. So here's the government on the wrong track in a lot of areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e2095	The representative Lars Haltbrecken has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e2100	It is true that I, as leader of the Nature Conservation Association, asked the Right for help in climate policy. There is a lot that looks different in the light of the post-war clock, as well as my profitable hope of a responsibility from the Right in climate policy over time. In the last two years, the right has voted against all of the more than 80 proposals proposed by SV on how to cut Norway’s emissions, both now and in the long term. They have voted against almost all proposals. It's nothing but a direct irresponsible. I also record that the Right in Oslo will not declare that we are in a climate crisis, as the Torys in the United Kingdom have done, and as the Right in Tromsø did. But it's maybe because the Right in Tromsø sees the changes better than the Right People in Oslo. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e2109	The President will state that speaking time is over when the President clubs.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e2115	The president hit so hard with clubs that I could almost plan to give a minute of my post to comrade Haltbrecken. I think some people are able to present our climate challenges incredibly easily. It's just to implement a cut, and it's just to shut down — without taking into account consequences or results. The only thing one can guarantee with the policy pursued by the Green and SV Environment Party is that it is not just the emissions that will go down with such a policy, but it will also do most of the other activity. The emissions we have today are very much linked to the combustion of fossil fuels. But now the reality is that 80 pst. from the available energy produced from fossil fuels. I assume it's not just in Norway that you're going to cut out oil, gas and coal, but that it's going to happen globally. Then my question to both the Green and SV Environmental Party is: how will they replace the lost energy? And they have to say a few words about who they think will be harmed globally by such a policy. Others stand up here and say they're embarrassed and pissed off at the politics of the government. I am very pleased that the gang that is so embarrassed and cursed depends on the very policy that is being pursued, to finance its own policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e2126	The representative Ketil Kjeseth has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e2131	I have a line for Mr. Åsmund Aukrust from the Workers' Party. Once the Workers' Party has been in government, the emissions have decreased twice. It was from 1990 to 1992, when we had a debt crisis, and it was during the financial crisis from 2008 to 2009. It is the Climatic Policy of the Workers' Party. It's hoping for economic crises. Besides, they've just risen. So to look in the mirror, the working party has to do itself. The representative Aukust spoke as if the Workers' Party is to stop with oil and gas tomorrow. But they're not. It is the Workers' Party that supports the Advance Party and the Right to increase the rate of extraction, and that is why the whole of the 1990s agreed to create the ceiling we now have from cut we have to do. Here, the Workers' Party has a big task of looking at each of the side mirrors and putting on the main lights to get its own policy that can cut those emissions. We are the ones who are negotiating the city packages and the collective agreements. With regard to the objectives of the Granavolden platform of cutting emissions more, the Left is taking the fights, while the Workers' Party is sitting and hoping for a crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e2140	First of all to the representative Halleland: what are we going to live on after oil? he asked, as if we were pressed against the wall and had no answer. If Halleland's representative had lived and been at his best age about 60 years ago, he might have stood on the bridge in Sandefjord and asked, "Why shouldn't we go out and catch more whales? That was our first oil age. That oil age ended. Then he might say, "What are we going to have?" What are we going to do if we don't take it from the whale? We figured that out. And another point, he might say, what are we going to burn on these cranlights? We found solutions to that. The point is that we're now in the second oil age, which lasts about the same time. Think about it. That means we have to grab hold of now to stand on new legs after the oil age. That's what's the biggest reason we have demonstrators of youth outside of the Great Britain's hall. We have to take this over. And then we see that when we put forward proposals on proposals, which are slightly overrun, they are downgraded. Also now it seems that the government parties are turning their backs on all the proposals we're taking up again from the youth. All the suggestions turn their backs on. The biggest of them is obviously saying no to new oil extractions. But maybe we could do a little bit on the way? I just got some information, there may be old numbers for some of you: only supply and service ships for the oil industry emit about 1.4 million tonnes of CO 2 this year. We could take a lot of grips just on the way there. Neither has the government. Why haven't we even got a zero-emission zone in the oil fields? Why haven't we taken those grips? It's not taken enough hold, and we're in a hurry. Two to three degrees heating, we're facing. We're going in the right direction of three-degree heating with the measures that have been notified, and as it looks. It's realism. There we go. Then we don't talk about just getting some refugees cycling across the border in Finnmark. We're talking about large refugee groups. We have to think about new paths, drastic paths, and start asking questions about our whole way of life. Do we need two cabins, two palaces, everyone in this country? Should we fly just like before in this country? We're going to follow up on these questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e2156	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e2161	To the representative Halleland: It's about, it's about stepping down and twisting the stakes on what we can live on in the future. The oil industry has been at risk for many years. We need to turn it into renewable and environmentally friendly industry measures, distort the tax system from favoring property, petroleum and finance to favoring new green industry. It is responsible for climate policy and good industrial policy, and it will provide jobs across the country. Norway has used its economic potential before such major conversions have been needed. That's what we have to do now, with a completely different strength than the government behind it. Once we've been in crisis before, it's given us tremendous success when we've done it. But it has to be done and started – not by binding ourselves even more to what we have to end with, but by twisting our efforts into what we can live on in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e2166	When I take the floor again, it's because I noticed the committee leader, Kjeseth,'s special interest in the Workers' Party. Actually, there have been more comments from him about the Workers' Party's faults and shortcomings than about the climate crisis. For my part, I am so much more concerned with how to solve the climate crisis, but since there is a certain demand for the Labour Party's policy, I would like to point out a little bit of what is now being thought of in the working party circles. Earlier this week, I was involved in producing a report, together with representatives of the Green Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, and thus me from the Labour Party, who tried to give a complete answer to the big question we are facing: how can we not just cut what we should do less, but how can we build a business and a business structure in Norway, across the country, that gives value creation, work and also justice in the transition to as many people as possible? It is a major and demanding challenge and requires a willingness to use the sum of societal instruments in a much more targeted way than now. We do this because we regard ourselves as a responsible governing party. Directing towards a trip is not responsible management. If you see that the dot comes, you have to swing away and find some clear ways to do it. There we have a number of suggestions that Kjeseth is very welcome to study and agree – if he wants to – and that he can find in the report. In particular, I would like to stress that it is very difficult to imagine the rapid conversion of the Norwegian business structure without the state taking a significantly stronger responsibility – not to choose winners, not to say exactly which industries and which enterprises will succeed, but to define some very clear social objectives, and then to provide risk-sensitive and patient capital, which can last a long time to create the opportunities that the market cannot manage alone, which ensure that an even more targeted research and development policy is directed towards those objectives, and which ensures that the sum of tax policies and policies, including reliefs, is used to reward the kind of effort that points in the right direction. The overall objective is to make a very clear distinction between GDP growth, which is good, and growth in resource consumption and carbon emissions, which is negative. So concrete targets should be set for what we call resource productivity and carbon productivity to different sectors of the Norwegian economy, in partnership with those in those sectors. It's an attempt to answer the representative, Kjeseth, and others who might be interested in what we think about an industrial policy that can actually help achieve those goals. Had we had 200 years, I would have leaned back and looked at the market to solve it myself. We don't have that, and that's why we need a concrete policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e2181	To the last time Espen Barth Eide mentioned these industrial policy proposals that he and others on the left helped to present earlier this week: Norwegian climate policy should be extremely poorly followed if such a document is presented and is thought to have been new. Then you have not followed much. We have gone through the proposals contained in the document, and that is, as is common with regard to the Workers' Party and Barth Eide's climate policy, the open door policy. But it shows the complete drought of ideas that exist there to develop new climate policies. For example, representatives Barth Eide and Haltbrecken – Myhrvold also asked for it – ask for a new climate settlement. But we made a climate settlement last year. How can I call it a climate settlement? Indeed, because the same happens after the climate agreement that took place after the previous two climate agreements, namely that concrete measures are being developed in the light of climate differences. It has also been explained by the Council of State, and the government will present a separate case on it. Now we have to start talking about the measures to achieve the 2030 objective, and there the government has higher objectives than the Workers' Party. They might first be able to get up to our level, before they say they want a new climate deal – which we made last year, and which is already being followed up. That work is already well under way. Then we're talking about emissions budgets. Yes, we fully agree on that. We agreed on this when it came to the budgetary negotiations for this year's budget, and in the case of a case in which Espen Barth Eide is the rapporteur of the case, where it is written, on the part of the government, in connection with the EU's climate policy: ‘Each country’s emission targets are converted into the national emission budget for each of the years from 2021 to 2030’. I'm just asking, how do we want to discuss the climate? Shall we move on? Should we discuss new proposals, new measures? Or are we just going to repeat ourselves in new documents? Because that's what the opposition is asking for, time and time again. It doesn't hold up in the situation we're in right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e2197	I hear that the Labour Party, and in particular the representative Barth Eide, is very concerned about defending that they do so much more than the government. But I have to mention three decisions that were made in Stortinget this week: it was mail delivery with empty cars, which we had to put an end to, so we actually had to go over to 2.5 days instead of every day. We had to have a new law on the taxi industry, so that there will be not as much empty driving as it is today. They drive around, especially in the big cities, with empty cars. We also had a change in the law on express buses, which gives more access to a collective offer, instead of having to drive their own car. It's not the big issues, where we can count on the number of tons, and where it can save us from the climate crisis, but it's the small measures that actually make a small stream a big one to end up. So these three points voted against the Labour Party in this big deal. Didn't they think there was climate action up there too? It was mentioned in all these debates that there are climate action, and it should clearly also be of interest to the Workers' Party to support it. So a little bit to the Gardermoen and the third runway: there won't be any third runway in this big time period. No one has thought of building a third runway. Well, I agree that there is an area set aside if, if, in case you need a third runway in 2030, but with today's forecasts and today's increase in air traffic, it goes on for at least many years before we need a third runway. It also says Avinor, and at least they have informed our committee – I am on the Transport and Communications Committee – that it can only be relevant in 2030. That's an information I think people can bring with them. In fact, we in the Left hope that in 2030 we have a lot of electric planes, which do not have the emissions that the planes contribute to today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e2208	The representative of Terje Halleland has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e2213	There were some alternatives here to what we were going to live on after the oil. Just to answer Arne Nävra: No, that's not what I asked. I asked him how he wants to replace the energy that he wants to take from us by shutting down the oil industry. Are there windmills to take over? What might have been my most important question was who's being hit by such a policy. Yes, they are the poor in the world. Norway will always be able to cope. When you talk about just stepping down: I really didn't understand either the SV or the Environmental Party The Greens in a different way than they want to stop looking tomorrow. As a result, thousands of workers will become unemployed in a few months. Think about what they're excited about, then, CCS -- what's the consequence of succeeding?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e2223	I think I've got up to several line fits now. I have to say that the last loop fit from the representative Halleland was also good. What are we going to live on after the oil? That's the question, right? We take this seriously, I can reassure the representative of Halleland. We now have a lot of people in the industry, we're going to have it for a year and a half in order to get what we call a green 'new deal', which is going to show exactly what SV has been for forever, that we can get a green new diet, not least in the maritime industry. There's a lot of work to do. I must also tell the representative, Jon Gunnes, that it is rather daring at all to draw up cases from the Transport Committee in the light of what has happened, not least in the last few days. I might have thought that it was best for the Left to sit down quietly in the boat. It might have been the best. I might have done that if I had, against assumption, got into the wrong real bed – I'm sorry about the expression. In any case, what we've witnessed in the Transport Committee is a gigantic highway development that should in some way be the government's response to tie the country together. There are four-field motorways – they have adjusted the Riksvegen investigation from the Statens vägvesen from 2015 to an entirely new adventurous norm and four-field highways. They set the limit for getting four-field motorways going downwards. They run and free with it all the time, and this is Left on. The left is involved in the crazy ferry-free E39 development in the West – how is that possible? – which even County Lars Sponheim has called the largest degradation of Norwegian nature ever. This is on the left side of the transport committee. It would have been better to sit down silently. We have made proposals on the pilot project on hydrogen trains – voted down by the government parties and the Left. I think the Left had it hurt, but they voted against it. That's the way it's been after time. We're trying to get a bigger stake in urban growth agreements, and urban growth agreements have now begun to become a scoring word. I understand that a lot of nerve tablets have to be eaten in the government coalition now, but what we see is that urban growth agreements based on environmental policy arguments are in danger. That's the situation. I had been sitting quietly, I had been the Left-Representative of the Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e2234	The last post cannot be undisputed by one who has also been involved for a long time in Norwegian policy, both locally and centrally. I know what development has been in terms of urban growth agreements since 2011, when Oslo did not get a crown from a red-green government, to what it is now, where we have increased the state effort in 2019 by 50 pst. In addition, we go into the big projects in the big cities with a 50pst order. The state has never been more involved in building up under public transport, bicycles and corridors in the big cities than we are now. Enterprise development: We have two tasks in Norway. The first is to cut emissions, take responsibility internationally, lie completely ahead and show how this can be done. The second is to prepare us for the transition the world is going through when oil and gas are going to be used much less than today, and we need a conversion of Norwegian business. And what do we do? We're going to come up with a case about green shipping. One has projects for hydrogen. Norled is about to get two ferries in. We have established a new support scheme for high-speed passenger craft, with projects in Finnmark, all the way down to the West and Trøndelag and also in Oslofjorden. This is what we're driving forward. We are in contact with the business community about how to strengthen the weaknesses we now have, so that we can mobilise Norwegian business to help us take on the opportunity to achieve the international and necessary climate goals. That's the way we have to move forward in order to be able to cut emissions quickly enough and sufficiently to keep us below 1.5 degrees. We've reinforced our targets to cut emissions by at least 45 pst. by 2030. We are working for the EU to increase to 55 p.m., and we are going to have a business development where we are going to prepare ourselves to also cut emissions and assume that climate policy is increasingly driving business development. It is like this in Norway that in order to bring about that change in the petroleum sector, we also need the supplier industry to participate in the change we are about to undergo.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e2245	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e2261	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e2270	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee for the smooth and constructive management of this Document 8, which addresses the problem of preserving the avians and the special coastal culture of traditional egg and down-to-earth. The Committee agrees with the proposers that this is important to take care of. The knowledge of the bird population in general in Norway shows that there has been a clear downward trend in the population of reptiles in most cities along the coast of Norway since the 1920s. The development of bird populations in Vega and the World Heritage Site is well documented in NINA Report 1405. There are several hypotheses about the reason for this decrease and some are reviewed in the NINA report. It's a composite image of cause and effect. Not only predators are responsible for this fall. Reduced food availability and reduced protection from humans are also key factors – this is because it was an extensive removal and closure of egg and downpour in the 1960s and 1970s. It is important to take care of the eggs and downs within, among others. World Heritage Site. Nevertheless, the knowledge we have today, not that there is a need for a predatory check, for which the proposal is addressed by the representative. The proposed change of rules also broke with an important principle of good and defensive game management in Norway, where we are to threaten predators. The proposers have pointed out measures that lead to causalities that we are not sure to point to for the direct reason for the general decline of the bird population. The majority of the Committee has therefore decided that the submission should not be accepted. But there's no doubt that it's painful to see animal tragedy where the reptile is killed by predators, as some media outlets see. In order to preserve the egg and downside, it is therefore important that we continue the work of supervision, deterrence, hunting/catching of mink and the necessary damage traps and extraction of the given individual, such as: oter. This, according to the knowledge we have, will be able to maintain today's egg and downpour within the Vega Island World Heritage Site, at the same time as we take care of endangered animal species such as animal species. eagles and otters.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e2291	The reason why the Central Party has promoted this proposal for a representative is that we are concerned about the bird population. It is a fact that in recent years the number of ere birds in Norway has fallen dramatically. Counties from the entire inner part of the Ranafjord and in the middle areas of the Helgeland coast show that the bird population was reduced by about 10 %. 70 pst. for the period 2000-2018. In Trondheimsfjorden, the hedgehold has fallen by 90 pst. since 1982, according to environmental information provided by public authorities. The Vega Island was placed on the World Heritage List of Presbyterians in 2004. The reason was that the Vega Island shows how generations of fishermen and farmers over the last 1,500 years have maintained a sustainable way of living in a weather-affected area near the Polar Circle, based on the now unique tradition of bird farming. Now, in these areas, the birds of the veins are heavily threatened. The same is true of Tautra. Tautra got protection status in 1984, and compensation was paid to the landowners here. So millions of dollars have been spent on management measures for the birds in this area. A lot of resources have been used after Tautra got protection status, where the purpose was to take care of and build up the population of aerobatic birds. Unfortunately, the result is that there are fewer and fewer birds in the area, or – rather – it is becoming less and less of what originally gave protection status to Tautra. One can rightly ask questions about the use of resources. Administrative tools for the care of the particulars of Tautra and Vega Island must be designed to remove competing species in this area. Today's legislation doesn't work. There is no doubt that mink, eagle and otter have been a major threat to the bird population in recent years. I would also like to refer to a clear decision in the Nordland county – taken by the Left, the Red, the Centre Party and the Workers' Party – where we are talking about exactly what the Centre Party is proposing here today. The centre party today has two proposals on this matter. One proposal is to authorise the collection of predators and predators that threaten the bird populations of the traditional eggs and downpowder species. The second proposal is that we ‘ask the government to facilitate the protection of bird populations through a system that stimulates more active bird watchmen’ in these areas. I would like an explanation from all the parties on why one does not want to vote in favour of the last proposal. So I'm just going to say that it's been a little bird and whispered to me that you might vote for it, but I think the other parties will explain that. With that, I'll take up the proposal of the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e2306	The representative Sandra Borch has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e2311	I – and SV – fully agree that it is important to take care of the coastal culture with its egg and down-to-earth operations. Here SV fully agrees with the Centre Party, as we are with regard to a lot of agricultural and rural policy. Everyone who comes here in the hall knows that. But here we separate layers. I cannot at all support the proposal of the Centre Party. 1, to allow predator control – by both oats and oats – in the dunes, with a kind of standing permit. It bears witness to a very small ecological understanding, and it's an old-fashioned and little thoughtful attitude. Unfortunately, this position has been shown several times by the Centre Party when it comes to classical nature protection and animal management. I know Helgelandskysten very well. As a film producer in the natural sector in my previous life, I have been on Vega Island many times – and especially out there on one of the downpours, the loan. It's great that we can maintain such a coastal culture as the dunes represent. Here, nature and culture meet in a fantastic way. Just think about it – so it's a wild duck that comes into the coast, almost like a domestic animal. She is offered accommodation of different types: we build single homes, we build multi-storey houses – and even collectively in the e-courses. It's amazing! And then we take a little bit of rent afterwards. We take down, we take some eggs – great. In return, they get shelters, and they get protection – that’s excellent. It's really sweet stories to tell the international world. This is also one of the reasons why, as noted by the representative Borch, the Vega Island World Heritage Site was established under the wings of the UN and the sea eagle. So for predator control. There's a lot to say about it, but I have to take it very little thoroughly. It is almost strange that the Centre Party also does not use the old-fashioned terms ‘injurers’ and ‘beneficials’, which had actually little to do with this proposal. One hurts us, and the other benefits us. But this is the museum, it's old-fashioned, we don't use those expressions anymore. Fortunately, the Center Party didn't do it either. I think the letter from the Council of State explains it most – that the Ministry of Climate and Environment has done a very fine job – a letter with strong documentation and for the follow-up of very many others, a thorough letter. I just want to say briefly -- to the extent that I can say so much more -- that the otter can make way for the well-being, it can. It scares a lot, but we have no evidence that it directly takes a bird. It can happen a rare time. In the case of oats, yes, it can take aerobatic, but one thing forgets the Center Party: it also takes large seagulls, which may be the greatest danger next to mink. These are the two greatest dangers. So it's a business network, not just a simple, straight line, that the center party often thinks about.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e2328	The knowledge that we have of bird populations in general in Norway shows that there has been a clear downward trend in the population in most places along the Norwegian coast, including the Nordic region, since the 1920s. Negative developments have been seen throughout Europe, and also in our neighbouring countries, Sweden and Finland, a strong decline in bird populations has been recorded. Reduced food availability and reduced protection from humans are key factors in the decline in the population. Changes in climate and in the seaweed forest, reduction in rainfall, disruption of recreational craft and pollution have also contributed to the decline. The decrease was introduced to Norway after World War I, and the decline in farmland has been exacerbated by the decline in bird populations. Also among other seabirds the decline has done great damage. The World Heritage Site was established in 2004. Each year, about 10 million are now granted. kr to the World Heritage Site. The funds are used, inter alia: for the care and operation of the eggs and downs, for the control of predators such as hunting and catching of minks, for information, etc. Due to local involvement and good instruments, bird populations have increased and stabilised at a higher level of population in the world heritage area. Therefore, I do not think there is a need for a new regime to have more eccentrics in the area now, as the representatives propose. There are several species that are hunting for reptiles. Based on the knowledge we have, the mink can cause the scarf and its eggs the most damage. This does not mean that not also other species, such as crowbirds, mollusks, oats and ots may take adult birds, pups or eggs from birds. It follows from the Nature Diversity Act that all game in Norway is peaceful. I understand the representatives there that there is a wish for so-called standing permission for killing all sorts of predators, including oats and oats, before the species do any damage. Harmful felling of different game species is regulated by rules on the killing of game species that do damage or significantly reduce the reproduction of other game species. Such authorisation may be granted by the State or the Environment Directorate on application in writing. However, a concrete assessment must be made of, inter alia: the extent of the damage, the economic importance of the damage and whether the nature significantly reduces the reproduction of other species. This year the County of Nordland has authorised the killing of five otres within the Muddværet bird-rearing area. The Directorate for the Environment has also authorised the killing of otters under the Nature Diversity Act § 18-1 (b). I believe that the representative proposal violates important principles in Norwegian game management. It is unfortunate if a fixed system is established to authorise the extraction of all species that hunt for avians in the traditional egg and porpoises, and I therefore, of course, do not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e2341	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e2346	The size decision was taken in 2016 to establish an action plan for seabirds, which also includes eccentric birds, in which different instruments and measures were to be considered for the conservation of the avian species. As I understand it, that report comes this year, but I am calling for concrete measures to be taken to preserve the bird of prey. Can the Councils answer that?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e2351	It is true that the Action Plan for Seabirds is an order from Stortinget to the Nature Diversity Communication and is under preparation in the Environment Directorate and is expected to be sent to the Ministry during the year. Otherwise, there are measures for avian species. These are the measures I mentioned. In the Vega Island and World Heritage Area, grants are given annually for action. Then we have to come up with more when we get the action plan, based on what advice is given there.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e2359	If I heard correctly in the post of the Council of State instead, he spoke warmly about arrangements with several active horticulturalists. One of the proposals put forward by the Central Party today is precisely such a proposal. What makes it impossible to vote in this Chamber today for such a proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e2364	Then I want to clarify what I said. I said that thanks to local involvement and good instruments, the bird population has increased and stabilised at a higher stock level in the world heritage area. I therefore believe that there is no need for a new regime to have more erudite guards in the area, as the proposal asks.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e2369	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e2376	The bird of honor is Nordland's country bird. It's the people who have taken it to it. The representative of Mossleth from Northern Ireland, who presented this proposal on behalf of the Centre Party, is engaged in the local management of traditional egg and downpour plants. The situation of one, which in many places along the coast is considered to be a domestic animal, is gloomy. Eggs that produce both eggs and exclusive down are highly valued. Some traditional bearers still maintain this special coastal culture. It's the female birds called honor. Eer lies on eggs in nests in Northern Ireland now, and they are very vulnerable to prey when they lie and hatch. The little breaths face many dangers before they grow up. Mink, crow, raven, blackback, hay, oats and oats are some of the bird's natural enemies, but the interaction between people and birds has helped to minimize the risk to the bird. For example, people on Vega have been watching the birds for more than a thousand years. Birdwatchers have taken care of and made sure that neither predators nor four-legged creatures have been destroyed – and cats had to be aired in ribbons. Minister Elvestuen writes in a letter to the Energy and Environment Committee that we can probably assume that this close interaction between the reptile and people on the Vega Islands has resulted in a population far beyond what we would today define as natural. The central party shares this assessment and will remember that it is actually this long egg and down tradition that is the basis for Vega’s world heritage status. Man's sustainable interaction with nature can be worth taking care of. The Minister also refers to the 1405 NINA report, which shows a dramatic decline in the erebird population of Vega after 1920. It concludes that the population is probably below 5 pst today. of what it was about 1920 – maybe as low as 2-3 pst. The centre party and a majority of the county council in Northern Ireland believe that in the case of these special eggs and downs, the management of predatory game that threatens the avian species must be possible locally. Local management is the basis for these unique and protected areas. Let local government remain the key to success — and sustainable natural use. Finally, I want to say that in many of these places at least I see that there are too many of these birds of prey.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e2393	First of all to the representative Adelsten Iversen: if it is that the population of oats is now far above what is a natural population, I wonder very much what is this representative's definition of a «natural population». Is it such that man should be involved and influence, harvest, shoot and take out, and then it's a natural population, but if you don't, then it's an unnatural population? It's a rather strange definition, and I've never experienced it in any scientific literature. There's an exciting discussion, like over a cup of black coffee on the shed in what I call a stubble conversation. So let's do that. I took the floor first and foremost to make a recommendation to the Center Party, as a partner in the future, we will believe, if – or when – it becomes a government change. It's a very bad thing that these things should be involved in splitting a front where you could have a lot of environmental organisations in a whole movement – among other things. for the districts, to maintain housing, short-range food and organic thinking, and that there are such proposals, which are so little ecologically thought, so old-fashioned and little thought, which destroy the co-operation climate that the centre party and the towns so badly need. That's what I think I'm looking at. I ask the Center Party in such cases to go a little by sea and go a couple of rounds to what pays off in the long term in individual cases that go beyond Norwegian nature and Norwegian ecosystems, as the Centre Party's proposal often does. They can be popular there and then locally, maybe, because it's pretty simple and easily understandable suggestions, but it's not ecologically thought out. I took a couple of examples of that. It's fascinating when you see the oats hovering, and there's a lot of them hovering over there. We'll be proud of that, and that's what tourists will see when they get there. It is a living nature in North Norway and along the Helgeland coast – and northwards, westwards and downwards. We've actually got two or three couples in Oslofjorden as well – they've been gone for a hundred years, and now they're back again. But that doesn't mean they're an enemy because they're hanging over there. They can also be a friend, and that's in those cases you have to go into ecology. Like I said, it's the mink that's the biggest enemy. I've seen that so many times. They panic in the thunderstorm if a mink turns out. And it's not that easy to see, maybe, but the big ones are a huge enemy to the eggs, and so the hawthorns take big bangs, especially big brats. So difficult, but still simple, it is. We will support proposal No. 2, from the Center Party – and would like to advertise it. It would just be missing if we don't support that we get a more developed culture, which is the dungeon.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e2404	I'm not going to hold on that long, but I want to tell you that I live in an area with a lot of oats. For your own part you can see 12-20 oats on a trip of 4 miles. That's pretty good. Because of oats, I've lost a cat that came a little too far on the outside of the house, so it's real. I don't think it can be that everything that is protected by animals should be in some areas. I could have had 20 pairs of oats here in Oslo, it would have been great. Oter is also something you see every day. That's actually a lot more than you might get the impression. That's just what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e2409	I could not dare to take the floor when the representative Nävra mentioned the Central Party and predatory policy. What we're dealing with is a real problem that very many people feel about the body. It's not about eradicating. It's about regulating. I can go along with SV to promote a proposal to move the eagle from Tautra to Oslo. It's the Center Party, but the point is that this is a real challenge that a lot of people in these areas feel about the body. I hope, as I have said before, that the Centre Party will be able to have a wider debate on proposal No. 2, because it is a good proposal that acknowledges the job that a bunch of volunteers have done over many years, and that they hopefully will be able to do in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e2416	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox The president assumes that further exchange of words takes place during stubble calls.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e2435	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e2444	In this proposal, the proposers ask the government to investigate an environmental complaint. They claim that the environment lacks legal certainty and that this poses a threat to nature and climate. It also refers to neighbouring countries where such a complaint gives civil society the opportunity to try out administrative decisions on an environmental basis. Reference is also made to Norway’s obligations under Article 9 of the Aarhus Convention in the light of the proposal. The majority of the Committee notes that a similar proposal to what we are dealing with was promoted by the SV and the Environmental Party of the Greens in 2016. At the time, the proposal was not supported by representatives other than those of the parties. At the time, the proposers also pointed out Norway’s obligations under the Aarhus Convention. However, the majority of the population believed that the Aarhus Convention had already been implemented in Norwegian law through the general system of administrative complaints and redress, stressing the existence of a number of legal and economic instruments that contribute to good and ecosystem-based management. The Council of State also pointed to this in its reply to the Justice Committee in the present case. In its letter of reply, the Council of State also points out that Norwegian nature and the environment are protected by a number of laws regulating activities that can be involved and affect the environment. For example, Section 112 of the Constitution requires environmental considerations to be integrated into decision-making processes. Furthermore, the Nature Diversity Act requires that the principles of sustainable use of the law be used as guidelines for the exercise of public authority. This implies that decision-makers must already have both knowledge of and look at the effects on nature of planning matters and all other public decisions with consequences for nature. It is also worth noting that the Pollution Act regulates pollution to the external environment. The rules on impact assessment in the Law on Planning and Building shall contribute, inter alia, to: ensuring that effects on the environment are investigated prior to the implementation of certain measures and the rules of the Environmental Information Act shall ensure public access to environmental information. The majority of the Committee has clarified that the normal system of central government is a two-pronged procedure whereby the nearest overall administrative body is the Board of Appeal. The normal system is therefore not that there is a separate complaint subject. The administrative law committee also points out in NOW 2019: 5 that this should continue to be the normal system and that it will be in line with the constitutional responsibility of the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e2459	When I was head of the Swedish Environmental Protection Association, we often got things into our table that might have benefited from a round at the courts. There could be cases of extension where many lawyers also believed that the decisions were contrary to the laws and regulations we have laid down in the field of the environment. But the economy set its clear limits. In Norway, the costs of an ordinary case through the judicial system are so high that it is only exceptional that environmental matters reach the courts. Civil society, voluntary organisations, does not have the resources to review administrative decisions through the judicial system. And what can be wrong decisions that affect nature and climate remains standing. Every year, thousands of administrative decisions were taken with an impact on the environment in this country. Decisions are taken both by municipalities, county councils and state authorities. We have a very comprehensive legislation on nature and the environment in Norway to protect our common natural and environmental values, but it is not that all of these are being followed at all times. If we look at the judicial review of environmental issues, we see that it is almost absent. Studies show that of all civil cases in Norwegian courts between 1996 and 2005, there were only 0.4 pst. as concerns the environment. Now there is a major issue here in Oslo where the environmental organisations Nature and Youth, Greenpeace, Grandparents' climate action and other affiliated organisations, such as the Nature Conservation Association, have been sued against the Norwegian Government for the allocation of oil fields in the Barents Sea, and that there may be a breach of the Constitution § 112, the Constitutional Law which will also guarantee future generations the right to a healthy environment. This has been a comprehensive case that has taken time and cost a lot of money. Sweden and Denmark have their own environmental courts or complaints where administrative decisions are tried every year. This also helps to strengthen the legitimacy of environmental laws. We therefore want to have a similar investigation in Norway, and I bring it up with the proposal SV is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e2470	Then the representative Lars Haltbrecken addressed the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e2475	Norwegian nature and the environment are protected by a number of laws regulating activities that may affect the environment. For example, Section 112 of the Constitution requires environmental considerations to be integrated into decision-making processes, and the Nature Diversity Act requires that the principles of environmental law on sustainable use set out in Sections 8 to 12 be used as guidelines for the exercise of public authority. The control of the administration is carried out in different ways. Administrative decisions with environmental implications may normally be appealed under the rules on appeal against administrative decisions. The Board of Appeal may then review all aspects of the case. The purpose of the right of appeal is to ensure that decisions are taken correctly. In addition to the administrative and judicial system, control of the administration of environmental matters may be carried out by the Civil Ombudsman or the National Audit Office. Any person who considers himself to be the victim of any wrong or defect of the public administration may lodge a complaint with the Civil Ombudsman. It also applies to individuals or environmental organisations that are intended to care for the natural environment. The proposers show, among other things: to the Aarhus Convention Article 9 4, which they consider to require Norway to have a reasonable and effective review body. The provisions of the Aarhus Convention on appeals and legal proceedings are deemed to be implemented in Norwegian law through the general system of administrative and judicial appeals. The relationship between this part of the Convention and Norwegian law was assessed by the Ministry of Justice’s Legal Department prior to the Norwegian ratification of the Convention. Control is important to ensure that the management performs the tasks assigned to it by elected bodies and administrative directors. This ability to control is also important in order to ensure the confidence of society in the proper decision-making of the administration. I believe that the control of administrative decisions relevant to the environment is ensured through the existing administrative apparatus for the handling of complaints, the possibility of judicial proceedings and other supervisory bodies, such as the Civil Ombudsman and the National Audit Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e2492	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e2497	The fact that there are so few cases in the legal system dealing with the environment, management decisions relating to the environment, has not been addressed by the Council of State in its reply letter to the Committee. But my question to the Council of State is, what does he think about this bias? Is that not an expression that you may need just such a complaint subject? I refer you to my post, where I told you how expensive it can be for organizations to go to a civil lawsuit.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e2502	There is no doubt that it may be expensive, but I believe that we have a good system in that we have a two-way handling, which allows us to complain about decisions, and that we can also complain to the overall body, which gives us the opportunity to look at the whole case. Then, as I mentioned, you also have the opportunity to go to the Civil Ombudsman, to whom everyone, both individuals and nature protection organisations, can also go and complain.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e2507	I want to involve a specific, ongoing matter. In Flatanger municipality, in the northern part of the new Trøndelag, there is now an expansion of wind power. In the context of this development, energy authorities were required to carry out pilot studies and investigations into bird life, in order to adapt the work to bird life in order to avoid unnecessary damage to bird life. The construction work started before this report was completed, and then it goes without saying that it will be quite difficult to take into account the recommendations contained in the report. Had we had an environmental complaint, environmental organisations could easily have complained about this for an environmental complaint and had the matter dealt with there. You can't do that. What opportunities does the Council of State think environmental organisations should then use in such a case?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e2512	Now I can't go into that particular case, where the case complex lies more with the oil and energy minister than with me. But that's no other way than that we have complaints within the system that we now have. One has the opportunity to have the matter re-tested in the instance where it has been assessed, and one also has a complaint in the overall body.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e2518	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e2532	Then Stortinget is ready to go to the vote on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e2541	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward by Freddy André Øvstegård on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for proposals to extend the parental leave for parents who have pre-term infants to children born in week 33-37, which means that the period of benefit will be extended in the number of weeks for which they would otherwise have been entitled if the child was born in the future.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e2636	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e2647	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e2692	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e2702	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e2755	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e2765	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e2774	A total of 10 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Kari Henriksen on behalf of the Workers' Party the proposals No 3-10, from Une Bastholm on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is requesting a review of the regulation on the placing on the market of non-medical cosmetic operations aimed at imposing a prohibition on cosmetic surgery which is not part of medical treatment.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for stricter enforcement of marketing rules aimed at children under the age of 18 and for the assessment of advertising bans aimed at this age group.’ The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e2814	Alternatively, between the setting and the proposals No. 3-10, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to revise the regulation on environmental health protection in schools and kindergartens with a view to promoting advertising-free zones around schools and ensuring that schools and kindergartens are free from product advertising.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is requesting a review of regulations on the placing on the market of cosmetic operations with a view to introducing a ban on the marketing of cosmetic surgery.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to consider a ban on the marketing of lubricants.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Consumer Protection Authority to issue a mandate to address any breach of the Marketing Act Chapter 4 on the special protection of children.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Consumer Protection Authority to issue a mandate to end the use of man-made dolls with medically irresponsible body proportions.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking for more knowledge about children and young people’s vulnerability to advertising.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose the necessary changes to the Training Act § 1-1 in order to provide the law with a normative basis.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to investigate the possibility of regulating targeted advertising in social media for Norwegian users, including the assessment of the prohibition of targeting and filtering advertising by age.’ The Socialist Left and Red have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e2873	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-5, by Kari Henriksen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 6, from Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen on behalf of the Centre Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to amend the Crisis Centre Act to give women in active violence a free, low-threshold crisis centre offer that is individually organised.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to propose that the definition of close relations by the Crisis Centre Act should include the definition of close relations by women’s own.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e2906	There is a vote on proposal No. Six, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to assess whether the definition of ‘close relations’ in the crisis centre law is sufficiently comprehensive and whether it should be clarified in the purpose paragraph of the law what close relations mean’. The Greens have announced their support for the proposal. Red has announced subsidiary aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e2925	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3–5, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that drug addicts can start or maintain substitution medication at crisis centres.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the professional guidance for crisis centres to focus on cooperation between crisis centres and specialist health services so that those who want to do so can be channelled into multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment [[TSB]] Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to provide information for women in drug settings that violence is not acceptable and that there are places that provide help free of charge.’ The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has announced its support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e2961	The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e2977	A total of seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Kari Henriksen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 4 and 5, from Kari Henriksen on behalf of the Workers' Party the proposals No 6 and 7, from Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen on behalf of the Centre Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. Six and seven from the Center Party. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The ruling asks the government to determine whether the second opinion assessment of emergency decisions can be implemented with a view to ensuring the quality of emergency decisions taken by the Child Protection Service.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to investigate how to give the press appropriate access to matters in the counties in order to ensure transparency, while respecting the right of the parties involved to privacy.’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e3011	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a quality reform for better child protection by promoting the necessary legislative proposals and by ensuring that the following initiatives and changes are implemented: Legal certainty (a) All members shall be offered dialogue/conversation prior to the examination of the case. b) Experts shall be entrusted with an application-based scheme in the counties. c) Acute decisions shall always be subject to a second opinion assessment. The decision shall also always be sanctioned by an external body. d) The eligibility for care should be amended and clearer criteria for the frequency of appeals should be established. Better care must be taken of children’s concerns than at present. e) It is necessary to ensure transparency for the press in cases in the counties. f) The possibility to impose quality requirements on lawyers who are required to conduct child-restraint cases must be investigated. g) The political responsibility for child protection shall be clarified and clearly anchored through own annual quality-based reports to the local authorities.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e3042	There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a quality reform for better child protection by promoting the necessary legislative proposals and by ensuring that the following initiatives and changes are implemented: Children and Parents a) The best interests of children shall be the basis for all measures and assistance throughout contact with child protection, and the provision of this in the Child Protection Act must be moved from § 4 to § 1, the purpose. b) The user perspective of the children themselves and their parents shall permeate the practice and must be included in developed digital platforms. (c) In the meeting with the families and children, the parents of the children shall have their own independent voice and be heard throughout the process. d) The situation of parents and children shall be assessed jointly and separately. Parents who are deprived of their children shall have a follow-up offer following the adoption of a decision to take care of their children. e) The position of foster parents shall be reviewed and follow-up and guidance improved. f) The service must meet the needs of cultural understanding and take into account the language challenges of indigenous peoples, immigrants and national minorities. (g) Post-closure protection should be extended to 25 years.’;» The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e3075	There is a vote on proposal No. 2. from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a quality reform for better child protection by promoting the necessary legislative proposals and by ensuring that the following initiatives and changes are implemented: Organisation, cooperation and instrumentation a) Services targeted at children and young people and their families shall be organised in co-located low-threshold actions with multidisciplinary competence. The midwife, health sister, psychologist, sociologist and child protection educator shall be a minimum crew. The service may include other disciplines such as doctors, family therapists, educators, pre-school teachers, etc. b) Formal, practical cooperation between child protection, school and voluntary actors in the municipality working on measures for children and young people should be regulated. (c) the concept of emergency decision should be replaced by urgent decision; d) The Nav/social service tool needs to be extended, home help, homework support, support contacts, etc. must be available quickly and without bureaucratic arrangements. (e) Indicative criteria for the standard of personnel in the Child Welfare Service should be investigated.’;» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e3104	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 3 from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a monitoring of the working environment in the field of child protection to determine whether there is a shortage of time, threats/violence/networking etc. can explain high turnovers. The work shall be carried out together with the employees’ organisations and the result shall be presented on an ongoing basis to the Enlargement in an appropriate manner.’;» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a quality reform for better child protection by promoting the necessary legislative proposals and by ensuring that the following initiatives and changes are implemented: Education a) Relevant education needs to place greater emphasis on relations skills and enhanced knowledge of family relationships and practically low-threshold family work. b) Practice and social content shall constitute a greater proportion of relevant education and training. c) There is a need to strengthen guidance skills, to make internal guidance part of practice and to improve guidance work for foster homes. d) The class perspective needs to be given greater emphasis in education in order to give students a better understanding of how social background, living conditions stress in poor families and language barriers affect the interaction between child protection and families. (e) provision should be made for more practical careers for child protection educators, socionomists and other employees, and for more people with practical experience to be able to take a master's degree and a doctorate and to take knowledge back into the work of child protection. [[PhD training]] f) A plan for the stepping up of scholarships in social work and child protection training should be provided in order to contribute to the more knowledge-based development of the professions.’;» The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e3150	The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e3201	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e3211	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e3503	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e3513	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e3523	A total of 10 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 2 and 4, by Åsmund Aukrust on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment the proposals No 1 and 3 and 5-10, by Lars Haltbrecken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Greens There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5-10, from the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that the next agricultural settlement prioritises measures to strengthen the diversity of species of insects, for example by: a. introduce an aid scheme for segregated organic agricultural land; [[e.g. flowering meadows, edge zones and other biologically valuable areas]] c. support under organic farming as a spearhead for a more sustainable agriculture by reintroducing conversion aid and increasing subsidies; d. strengthen the «Special environmental measures in agriculture» subsidy scheme e. establish a scheme for operating difficulties for unfertilised and depopulated areas such as harvest forests, mowing areas and natural pastures.» [[SMIL]] Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to ensure the protection of the habitats of insects and other species by: a. strengthen voluntary forest protection and all actors working on it essential to achieve the target of 10 pst. the protection of the productive forest; b. establishing a plan for the protection and restoration of nature and cultural landscapes in coastal areas to ensure better diversity of species; c. extend the system of protected watercourses, in particular coastal watercourses; d. protect and restore multiple ants and other wetlands; e. extension of the innovation scheme in Norway, so that smaller farms can also receive support for loosing f. extending the ‘Selected cultural landscapes’ scheme to 100 areas by 2020 g. increase the number of priority species and selected habitat types and allocate funds to implement action plans to improve their status; h. constructed a system where landowners are paid by the State for particularly important ecosystem services requiring active care or which restricts the possibility of other income, including the transition to plucking hogs with a view to restoring species-rich multi-annual forests, the maintenance and increase of biodiversity in cultural landscapes and the re-establishment of rare or endangered species.’;» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to strengthen the protection of nature in the field of development by: a. Strengthen County authority and capacity for guidance and supervision of municipalities; b. review the laws governing deployment and land use interventions and propose changes to ensure more comprehensive management and prevent bit-by-bit degradation; c. provide funds for climate and environmental advisors in municipalities.’;» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government asks municipalities, counties and state agencies to establish and care for flowering meadows/wilds with indigenous plants on their properties, including roofing areas, in order to ensure biodiversity of plants and insects.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: «The government is asking the government to facilitate public research and development of necessary indigenous seed mixtures for the whole country.» Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is requesting the implementation of a national programme with incentives to establish and care for flowering meadows/wilds with indigenous plants on private properties, including roofing areas, in order to ensure the diversity of plants and insects.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e3609	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 3 by the Socialist Left and the Greens. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to propose and implement a reversal operation for Norwegian nature protection, land management and agriculture to stop Norwegian and global insect death.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to establish a research programme for the development and testing of agro-ecological cultivation methods, focusing on increased soil quality, the use of local resources and lower consumption of fertilizers and sprays.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e3635	The Labour Party would vote against proposals No. 1 and 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e3640	Yes. Proposals Nos. 1 and 3 are from the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. It is Red that has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e3645	It says on the screen that the Workers' Party is also behind the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e3650	So let's do the voting again.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e3664	It's a little confusing, because on the screen it says that the Workers' Party is one of the proposers.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e3670	That's absolutely right. That's why we took the vote again. I should probably have informed you about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e3675	The setting also states that the Working Party is behind it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e3680	Yes, it is in the setting, but the Workers' Party has announced that they will vote against it. Is there anyone wrong now? There were errors. The result is that 91 voted against and 9 voted in favour of the proposals of the Socialist Left and the Greens. The proposals are therefore not accepted. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 4 from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to establish a programme for full scale monitoring of insects in order to provide a better knowledge base on the status of insects in Norway and to give priority to different measures to prevent insect death.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to put in place a support scheme for testing autonomous agricultural robots for more efficient and targeted use of fertilisers and pesticides.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e3735	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e3754	The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e3770	A total of 26 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Åsmund Aukrust on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment proposal No 2, by Ole André Myhrvold on behalf of the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party the proposals No 3-9, by Lars Haltbrecken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Greens the proposals No 11-13, from Une Bastholm on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA the proposals No 15-17, from Seher Aydar on behalf of Red the proposals No 10, 14 and 18–26, from Lars Haltbrecken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 24 has changed during the debate and now reads: ‘The government asks the government to present a plan for reduced car traffic in urban areas and that all growth in passenger transport in metropolitan areas is to be taken with collective, bicycle and gangways.’ There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 15-17, from Red. Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to present a case in which warranty periods and warranty periods on clothing, white goods, brown goods and electronics are at least doubled in order to pressure manufacturers to produce goods with increased service life and quality and thus contribute to reduced consumption.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to step up rapidly climate finance for emissions reduction, adaptation and support for losses and damage to countries in South based on Norway’s fair share of global climate costs, and existing proposals for a stepping-up plan for Norwegian climate funding from several Norwegian environmental and development organisations based on the report ‘Norway’s Fair Share of meeting the Paris Agreement’ by the Stockholm Environmental Institute.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make proposals for amended purpose paragraphs for Norwegian state-owned activities that manage natural resources so that the purpose paragraphs highlight the responsibilities of enterprises for reducing greenhouse gas emissions and biodiversity loss and that this is highlighted for purposes of economic return.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e3818	It has been announced that SV should also support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e3823	It's noted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e3835	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 12 and 13 from the Greens/Greens/EFA. Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘As from 2020, the government is asking for the introduction of a climate percentage with up to two per cent of national income being transferred annually from the Oil Fund to climate action in developing countries, in order to contribute to Norway’s fair share of global climate costs.’» Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government in the context of the State budget for 2020 to make proposals to transfer 65 billion. krona from Staten pension fund abroad to the United Nations Green Climate Fund.»
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e3857	There is a vote on proposal No. 11. from the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to immediately stop the allocation and opening of new oil and gas fields on Norwegian base, while at the same time starting a gradual and planned phase-out of the petroleum activity over a 15-year period.’» Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e3874	There is a vote on proposal No. 14, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to withdraw the call for TFO 2019.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e3892	There is a vote on proposal No. 10, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate proposals for the State budget for 2020 and to propose the introduction of a Youth Card for public transport in Norway. The card shall be valid for all less than 20 years.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e3909	There is a vote on proposal No. 24, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to present a plan for reduced car traffic in urban areas and that all growth in passenger transport in metropolitan areas is taken with collective bicycles and corridors.’ The Labour Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e3926	There is a vote on proposal No. 21, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit a plan in the context of the State budget for 2020 to ensure that 100 per cent of new car sales in 2025 are zero-emission cars.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e3943	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 18–20, 22, 23 25 and 26, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a plan for the Stortinget that cuts Norwegian emissions annually until Norway has zero emissions in 2050.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government asks the government to propose increased CO2 taxes in the State budget for 2020.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government is asked to come up with a plan to reduce travel time by train between the cities of South Norway. The destination must be 4 hours travel time between Oslo and Bergen, Stavanger and Trondheim respectively.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to remove the subsidies to the oil industry in the context of the State budget for 2020.’ Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to draw up a carbon capture and storage plan for all large point emissions in Norway.’ Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a change in the operating fee for 2020 in the context of the State budget so that it is also paid for empty seats.’ Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide an analysis of Norway’s historical responsibility for the climate crisis and to present a plan for Norway to take its historical responsibility for financing climate change adaptation and climate change in other countries.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e3993	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3-9, by the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that no new exploration or extraction permits are granted to the oil companies in Norway.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for a proposal for permanent protection against petroleum activity in particularly valuable and vulnerable sea areas, such as the Lofoten, the Western Sea and the Senja, the ice edge zone, the polar front of the Barents Sea and the Norwegian Sea, the sea area around Jan Mayen, the Moor Banks, Iverrygden and Skagerrak.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking for an increase in Norway’s climate target to a reduction of 60 pst. cut by 2030 compared to 1990 emissions and provide a plan for Norway to take these cuts domestically during the first half of 2020.’» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to carry out a draft selection investigation and subsequent external quality assurance for a third runway on the Gardermoen and other major aerodrome expansions, as is done for other major passenger transport projects. The investigation must, inter alia, look at the development of a third runway in the light of Norway’s climate objectives and objectives for the conservation of cultivated soil.’» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘As from 2020, the government is asked to draw up proposals for annual sectoral climate budgets that oblige Norwegian authorities to reduce climate emissions from Norwegian territory by 60 pst. by 2030 compared to 1990, and 95 pst. by 2050.’» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to assess Norway’s fair share of global climate costs and to set out a model for setting annual contributions and how they can be used for climate action in developing countries in proposals for the 2020 budget.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government declares that there is a national and global environmental and climate crisis and asks the government to follow up with comprehensive and immediate action in Norway and globally to stop the loss of nature and biodiversity and to avoid catastrophic man-made climate change.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e4043	There is a vote on proposal No. 2. from the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to approach a third runway at Oslo Airport Gardermoen.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e4061	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘As of 2020, the government is asked to draw up proposals for annual sectoral climate budgets.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e4103	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e4127	The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e4143	A total of two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Sandra Borch on behalf of the Center Party. There is a vote on proposal No. One from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to authorise the withdrawal of all predators, including oats and oats, which threaten the avian populations of the traditional eggs and downs.’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e4164	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to facilitate the protection of bird populations through a system that stimulates several active bird watchmen on the Vega Island.’ The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e4188	The central party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e4204	During the debate, a proposal was put forward by Mr Haltbrecken on behalf of the Socialist Left and the Greens. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to investigate its own environmental complaint with a view to establishing such a complaint.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. Red has announced support for the proposal. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-06.ana.ud180e4239	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
