ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e54	Honourable co-representatives! Former PD Ingvald Godal passed away on 28 January, 84 years old. Godal represented Telemark and Right on the Stortinget from 1985 to 2001, the first period as a member of the Energy and Industry Committee, then for 12 years as a member of the Defence Committee. He was also a member of the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee from 1993 to 2001. Ingvald Godal was a trained civil engineer from Scotland, and as a newly educated man, he spent almost ten years as a weighing engineer in Africa and finished the period of leadership of relief work during the civil war in Nigeria. Back in Norway he started his own business in Rauland in Vinje, became the Central Party rapporteur in the Telemarks municipality for four years, and had different positions of trust. Under the Korvald government 1972–73 he was State Secretary at the Ministry of the Environment. He was also counsel in Vinje for four years until he was elected to the Grand Duchy, but then to the Right. It was natural that energy policy became Ingvald Godal's first task at Stortinget. He came from just eight years as chairman of the Landssaman conclusion of the Vasskraftkommunar, but he entered the defense committee that year the Berlin Wall fell. Godal became heavily involved in the development of the Baltic. When Soviet tanks threatened to halt Lithuania’s new independence in the winter of 1991, Ingvald took Godal flights from Oslo, spoke in the National Assembly in Vilnius, and literally stood on the barricades. He was later awarded Lithuania's Medal of Liberty. Ingvald Godal was also among those in the Røjres Storingsgruppe who were most committed to cleaning up the secret services when the Lund Commission report was discussed. The 1972 No-man also became one of the district Norway's hottest defenders of Norwegian EU membership during the 1994 referendum. Ingvald Godal was a man with an engagement that was strong where he went in. It was matters more than the organizations that attracted him. That's why he wasn't Right-Man his whole life, but the party got pleasure from his work in the years he was nationally active as a big-time representative. We are at peace with the memory of Ingvald Godal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e75	The representative, Petter Eide, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e80	On behalf of Audun Lysbakken, Karin Andersen and myself, I propose to facilitate the prosecution of suspected war criminals with Norwegian citizenship in Syria and Iraq – but in Norway. This matter is urgent, so we are asking that the current committee which is to deal with this matter should give priority to this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e87	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e105	No one has asked for the floor. The President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. 2 and 3 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e134	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no opportunity for a replacement of lines, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e143	I would first like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation. This is a matter which the entire Committee supports by joining the Ministry's recommendation to ratify the Convention in order to prevent and combat the forced disappearance and impunity of this crime. These are very serious crimes, which take place in consultation with countries. The Committee has made it clear in its observations that this is not happening in Norway, but it will nevertheless be important for Norway to take a clear position on the matter, ratify the Convention and make the necessary changes to the criminal law. By doing so, Norway will be the first Nordic country to ratify this Convention.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e152	The United Nations Convention on the Protection of Human Rights against Forced Disposal of 2006 has been the last adopted by the UN’s nine core conventions in the field of human rights. The purpose of the Convention is to prevent the compulsory disappearance and to combat the impunity of this crime. The definition of forced disappearance is a detention carried out on behalf of, or with the support or consent of, the State. It is secret, so that the deprivation of liberty is deprived of ordinary guarantees of legal certainty. Forced disappearances are one of the most serious human rights abuses, and it is a major global problem. However, forced disappearances, as defined in the Convention, are unusual in well-functioning legal states with democratic control. They do not occur in Norway. Even today, there are provisions in the penal code that impose mandatory disappearances. The compulsory disappearance is also contrary to Norway’s existing human rights obligations. Nevertheless, the government wants Norway to ratify the Convention and to make some legislative changes. Combating forced disappearance is an important international human rights issue. In ratifying the Convention, Norway will support the objective of the Convention to prevent and combat impunity for forced disappearances. That is why I am very pleased that there is an overall Judicial Committee that has supported the government's proposals for ratification and legislative change. The government's proposal for its own penal order for forced disappearance will capture the special and particularly punishable elements of forced disappearance. This will allow for a specially adapted criminal framework and a limitation rule. Self-punishment will also better facilitate international cooperation and prosecution of forced disappearance. The government's proposal for amendments to the Criminal Procedures Act will add the verdict of the prosecution for the crime of the Riksadvokat. The Convention also requires legal detention and obliges the States to take specific measures to prevent forced disappearance, including: as a general rule, the Convention grants to relatives the right of access to the exercise of freedom. However, under Norwegian law, relatives as a general rule will not be granted access if they themselves are deprived of liberty, for example: a prisoner in prison, says no to this. The Government considers that the Convention must be considered to be in conformity with Norwegian law at that point, but nevertheless considers it appropriate to make an interpretation declaration to that effect at the time of ratification. Finally, I just want to say that we are happy that we can stand together on the ratification of this important convention. Although it will have no direct impact on Norway, this is a very important convention for the international community.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e171	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Two and three.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e187	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that there is no opportunity for a replacement of lines, and that those who have to sign on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e196	I want to make this reference to Prop. 31 S for 2018-2019 on consent to the acceptance of Regulation 2017/458 on amendments to the EU Border Regulation Article 8, which applies to the introduction of enhanced personal control when crossing external borders, a further development of the Schengen acquis. In recent years it has been shown that citizens of EU/EEA countries have been involved in terrorist events in Europe and that their own citizens can also pose a threat to the internal security of the Schengen area. In this context, there has been a need for greater control of EU/EEA citizens on entry and exit across the common external borders in order to detect forward-looking warriors who want to return to Europe. The amendments adopted in Article 8 entail that EU/EEA citizens should also be checked in line with third-country nationals when entering and leaving the external borders and sea borders and in airports when entering and leaving non-Schengen destinations, i.e. that the travel document is to be examined to establish its authenticity and validity and that the identity of the person is secure. In addition, travellers shall be checked against the relevant national data registers, the Schengen Information System and the Interpol database on stolen and lost passports. It is intended to identify and stop people who may pose a threat to the general security of the Schengen area. The Regulation provides that checks are to be carried out in full compliance with the EU privacy rules and with respect for the integrity of travellers. In the light of the agreement on participation in Schengen cooperation, Norway has taken part in the drafting of the acts through discussions in the Council structure. Norway shall decide, on its own initiative, whether the acts should be accepted by Norway and whether to implement them in Norwegian law. As one can read in the proposition from the government, this regulation is to be seen as very important. The consent of the majority to the acceptance of the act is therefore absolutely necessary in accordance with the second paragraph of Section 26 of the Constitution. In this case, a Joint Judicial Committee is a member of the Proposition and, in the same way, supports the proposal for consent to the adoption of this Regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e213	I am pleased that the Stortinget is now examining the government’s proposal to accept amendments to the EU border regulation – on enhanced personal checks for crossing the external borders of the Schengen countries. As the representative also mentioned in his statement, in recent years we have seen examples of citizens of EU countries being involved in serious terrorist incidents in Europe. Thus, even its own citizens could pose a threat to the internal security of the Schengen area. It is therefore necessary to be able to carry out border checks more closely on EU and EEA citizens when entering and leaving the common external borders, including: in order to detect foreign fighters, with travel documents from an EU or EEA country, which may be returning to Europe. Until now, EU and EEA citizens have been subject to simplified border controls, where only a valid travel document has been held by travellers. The changes to the border regulation now mean that EU and EEA citizens should be checked in the same way as third-country nationals. This means that travel documents are examined to determine whether they are genuine and valid and whether the identity of the person is secure. In addition, the traveler’s information shall be checked against the relevant national data records, against the Schengen Information System and against Interpol’s stolen and lost passport database. This acquis has already been applied in Norway since 1 May 2017 at the external border of Schengen. In 2018 it was checked approx. 5.5 million passengers across the air border. Of these, approx. 4.6 million EU or EEA citizens. This represents approximately 80 pst. The Code clearly states that border controls are to be carried out in accordance with EU data protection legislation, with respect for the integrity of travellers. The border regulation will also apply to Norwegian citizens, and the changes will also result in Norwegian citizens being checked more closely now than before. However, I believe that the increase in security and security in the Schengen area as a result of the changes will compensate for the limited disadvantages that individual travellers will experience as a result of these changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e226	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e242	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that up to five lines of reply are given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e251	It went a little fast today, but I ran it! This is the third time this spring we are dealing with the matter of changing the housing allowance for disadvantaged households, and we were previously given in our adopted system that will help them as this case is also intended to help. We're behind the setting. Then it must also be allowed to ask questions as to why the government was unable to give the committee a better answer to the matter when they had it for their opinion. The proposals were not specifically assessed, and it was difficult for us in the Committee to see what could be the consequences of the proposals. So we hope this gets better in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e260	Differences in Norway are increasing, and housing and heating are expensive. The government came up with a little handshake in Prop. 54 S for 2018–2019, which received support from Stortinget, but to my surprise I received a message yesterday that, among other things, Nav Sandnes has reported that those who have received increased housing support through the State scheme are at risk of these housing allowances being deducted from social assistance. That is why we have today tabled a proposal, proposal No. 8, which is a so-called loose proposal, because I can't imagine the government had intended it to be such that those who get this extra hand bill will be able to lose their money again when they can't afford it so badly that they have to get social assistance. I see that Red has made a similar proposal. Our proposal is a little more specific, so I hope to join it, because I can't believe anyone in this room has thought that that money will be gone again in the next round. Many have fallen out of the housing support scheme. Therefore, there is a need for state support for those who do not receive housing support, but who have very low incomes and high costs to heat up their home. SV has therefore made a proposal to this effect. Only in recent years have more than 35000 fallen out of the housing support scheme, and now the average income of households receiving housing support is about. NOK 130 000 — household income. Then you don't have much money left to pay increased electricity costs for. Today, only pensioners receive heating costs as part of their housing costs in the housing support system. SV wants all those who receive housing support to be able to count on them, because it is equally expensive for those who have poor advice – whether they are retired or not, or they are social security recipients or not. As I said, I remember that the government's own documents show how little these households actually have in income, and that it is then necessary for this expenditure to be taken into account. However, if this is to have a practical effect on the housing support, it must, among other things, the support roof of the system is raised. That is why we have put forward a proposal, proposal No. 4, about this. The Central Party has proposed a proposal, proposal No. 3, which deals with the same thing. I'm very happy about that. We believe that proposal No. 4 is better, because it's obvious that you want the housing support to get bigger, so now more, as it did before. That's why we put in a measurement point -- 2013 -- so we get into the volume that we had then. It does not have the Central Party in its proposal, but of course we will vote subsidiaryly for it. This is a very important matter, in order to be able to live safely and also to warm up their home is an elementary matter, and unfortunately the social housing policy and distribution policy in Norway have gone very far in the wrong direction in recent years. As I said, differences are increasing. Those with the lowest income are slowing down or standing still, and some of them go down in income. I think everyone sitting in this room also knows that the boute poisons have increased violently in recent years. That means these people have less to pay for absolutely necessary, good housing for. Therefore, it is important that housing aid is strengthened quite strongly beyond the current level. In addition, there is a need for broader and better mechanisms to ensure that housing heating costs are also part of the housing support system, and that we reach more than those included in the government’s proposal. I think I want to repeat what we have now discovered, and encourage the others to decide on that proposal, namely, was it supposed that some of those who now received an extra handshake for high electricity costs through the housing support system could lose their money again if they had to have social assistance in the municipalities, so that they get into zero by this? I can't imagine that it was the government's, and the majority's, intention, and I therefore ask that everyone agree to stop that opportunity, so that everyone can enjoy the money that was unanimous in the Storting that they should get.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e275	Would the representative like to make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e280	Yeah, I'd like that. I will deal with the proposals we have alone, and with the proposals we have with the Senter Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e285	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e290	Everyone needs a home – a home where you feel safe and where you thrive. Housing is the very foundational wall of people's lives, but also the largest expense item. Current accounting is a large cost item for many in periods. This is nothing new. Discussions and debates about high electricity costs have been going on for as long as I can remember. Also during this winter the discussion has gone on. High electricity prices are particularly challenging for those with the lowest income, and therefore the government presented a proposal for an exceptional additional allocation of 274 million. kr to increased housing support to improve the high electricity prices over the winter 2018 to 2019. The measure covers those included in the Housing Aid Scheme of the House Bank as of February 2019. Housing aid shall be an instrument to ensure that disadvantaged persons can afford to live in a good dwelling and reaches about 90 000 households. Increased housing support through the House Bank is an effective and unbureaucratic way of providing funds. It reaches many disadvantaged people when the situation requires it, even if it does not reach all those who need it. Municipalities therefore have an obligation to assess social assistance if a household is in urgent need of financial assistance, also as a result of high electricity prices. Actual costs of heating have never been the basis for the calculation of housing aid. The Government has continuously assessed and introduced improvements in housing support in the context of the annual budgetary processes. Unlike some parties that are most concerned with the widest possible provision of housing support, the Progress Party is committed to pursuing a policy that maximises the preservation of people’s own incomes, so that they can manage themselves without support schemes. We know that support schemes soon end up becoming a trap of poverty. A small extra income can result in the loss of housing, and you'll be left with a feeling of being punished financially to stand on. If we add to what we know about the importance of being part of a community, this is extra worrying. Several support schemes work this way and are too many a direct obstacle to getting into work or working part-time with receiving social security. We also see that people in low-income jobs who serve so far beyond the limits of housing support have seen less of a route than others with a slightly lower income, but who receive housing support. The housing aid represents a significant amount over a year, an amount that in addition is tax-free and thus corresponds to a good part of the salary of others. There is also reason to recall that many of those receiving housing support live in municipal housing, where municipalities deliberately put a high level of rent on the grounds that they can only apply for state housing. Some municipalities have also introduced their own municipal housing support to distinguish between those with high incomes and those with low incomes, while making the State partly finance the new increased incomes of the municipality. It has been necessary to make changes and improvements several times. Many weaknesses of the red-green housing system have been removed. Larger families of children get more. Bout poisons have increased every year since 2013. Access to housing for bookholders has been extended, children’s income is not included in the income base, and housing aid is calculated on the basis of up-to-date income figures rather than data from up to two-year-old tax settlements. The latter has led the beneficiaries to receive the housing allowance they are entitled to receive, rather than to large repayment claims that can be very difficult to deal with. The compensation mechanism for the victims after the default reform was also made permanent. Government lots have repeatedly ensured that lone minimum pensioners receive additional increases in pensions while ensuring that those who receive an increase in the minimum pension in September 2019 retain the housing allowance. The number of housing beneficiaries has fallen slightly in recent years, since 2011. This may be related to the removal by the red-green government of the price growth regulation which prevented the rates for calculating housing aid from keeping pace with the price growth and rising housing costs. Recipients fell out of the scheme, even if they had the same support needs. This has clearly been a weakness of the aid scheme for several years. This government has corrected this weakness, thereby ensuring regular regulatory adjustment. The conversions we have implemented have made housing support more targeted and reduced fault payments. The housing support system is still not perfect, and we are looking for the optimal solution. In the meantime, we're doing improvements with the goal of reaching those who actually need it at all times.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e320	Everyone needs a safe and good dwelling, and everyone depends on electricity in their everyday life. Flow calculations can be a major cost item for many. In the winter of 2018/2019 we experienced power prices that were much higher than we have been used to in recent years, and there are several reasons for this. There were higher prices of CO 2, gas and coal in Europe. In the summer of 2018 we experienced an extreme drought here at home, magazine fillings have been lower than normal, and there has been little snow in the mountains. Power consumption is, of course, highest in winter, and it was not until the winter months 2018/2019 that ordinary households fully noticed the consequences of the power situation. Power prices were 41 pst. higher than the previous year, according to the SSB, and we need to go back to 2010/2011 to find prices at the same level. It was also the basis for the government to promote the Government's proposal for an additional payment to the beneficiaries of housing aid, to help cover high electricity costs – a matter that our committee dealt with at record speed so that the House Bank, which manages the housing support scheme, could make a payment as quickly as possible. I am very pleased about that, and I hope that the grant that was paid – the extra allocation – helped many of them with the least flexibility to handle unforeseen expenses. It was granted 274 million. NOK, and the House Bank paid SEK 268 million the week before Easter. kr in the additional housing stock. The situation in winter 2018/2019 was exceptional, and when the committee took a unanimous decision in the handling of Prop just before Easter. 54 S for 2018-2019, it was a unanimous committee which, in the form of a comment, emphasised that the situation this winter was exceptional and would not constitute a precedent. In the case under consideration today, the proposers wish – based on winter electricity prices – to set up schemes for persons with low incomes and high housing costs who do not receive housing support through the Husbank and, on the one hand, proposers want changes to the housing support scheme itself. First of all, I would like to say that the use of the Husbank's equipment for payment of support in the situation we experienced this winter, hopefully was both unbureaucratic and effective, and that it was a good way to obtain support for a large number of disadvantaged people. Creating a separate scheme is fast becoming both resource-intensive and time-consuming. Municipalities are also obliged to assess social assistance if a household is in urgent need of financial assistance as a result of high electricity prices. To the second issue, which also includes changing the limits for the calculation of housing aid, so that persons covered by the scheme in 2013 are reintroduced into the scheme, there are several things to say. When the amendment to the Housing Aid Act came in 2015, the Husbank was given the opportunity to obtain information about the housing beneficiaries from other registers. This makes us see today that fewer people get housing they are not entitled to. The housing aid has become more accurate and the error payments have been reduced as of 2017. That's a good thing. In addition, the Government is considering ongoing improvements to the scheme in the context of the annual budgetary processes. If I don't remember completely wrong, this year's budget also included an increase of about 60 million. kr to strengthen housing for large families of children and large households. From the Red Party, proposals have been made for a two-price system for electricity taxes and for changes to Enova’s grant schemes. The top-risk system has been thoroughly investigated in the past and not found to be particularly suitable. There will be increased administrative costs and there will be a limited distribution gain, as shown in NOU 2004:8 on a differentiated electricity charge for households. In the case of Enova’s grant schemes, they have been specifically designed to achieve climate and energy policy objectives. Then there are also questions about how to achieve the highest possible climate and energy per capita, which must govern these schemes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e338	The centre batch considers that high electricity prices could have been avoided if the level of charging of electricity had been lower. The government has increased the electricity charge by 36 pst. recent years, and it has a direct impact on people's electricity billing. Furthermore, the government is committed to increasing electricity exports through the construction of new export cables between Norway and Scotland, and there will be even higher electricity prices in the future. The centre party believes that the power needs to be managed in such a way that we have a lower power price than in the European market. Norway is cold, and many have no possibility of heating other than electricity. Reasonable power is also essential to strengthen our own production and create Norwegian jobs. Today's higher electricity prices policy is hitting ordinary people and making our industry weaker. Overall, high electricity prices affect both industry and the economy of individuals, and especially those with long economic needs are hit very hard. The centre party has been critical of changes in the charging policy and changes in the housing support system, and believes that it is an unfortunate development that affects those who have the narrowest economy, most harshly. Tax bills benefit the richest. Fee is going to hit everybody the same way, and it's going to get the most out of those who don't have much from before. In winter it has been particularly demanding for many due to high electricity prices. Therefore, we were pleased when it was proposed a one-off payment. The centre party supported this, of course, and it was unanimously adopted in Stortinget. Now there is information that you are being drawn into other social benefits, similar to what was provided in a one-off electricity grant. It could not have been Storting's intention that we should give with one hand and bring with the other. That is why we support proposal No. 5, from Red, that no one should be deducted in other social benefits even if they receive the one-off payment on which the Stortinget unanimously agreed was necessary. The centre party has opposed the changes in the housing support system implemented by the government because many have fallen out of the scheme and become social clients. Therefore, we ask that some changes be made to the housing aid scheme, so that more people can re-enter the scheme. However, there is no objective that the proportion of people receiving housing support should be the same as in 2013. We believe that the goal must be to minimise the need for housing support in the future. That is why we cannot support proposal No. 4, from SV, because we believe that it must be the real need that determines at all times. We are therefore promoting our own proposal. We believe that the scheme needs to be modified to allow more people to come under it. Those who need it need help. It is also incomprehensible that families with children cannot cover heating costs, while pensioners with old age, disability and survivors receive it as a calculation of the housing allowance. Heating costs for those who do not have it as part of the rent will be a mark-up on the basis of those who have old age, disability or survivors' pension, but not on the basis of others. We believe that to be unreasonable. Alone parents, families with children, etc. have exactly the same need for heating, and that must be the same for all. That is why we support the proposal that this should be amended. New entrants have a higher threshold for entering the housing support scheme than those who were in the scheme before the default reform. We believe that this should be corrected. They have just as little to travel with after the housing expenses have been paid, and we have to make sure that this is a scheme that is equal to all disability pensioners. Due, inter alia, to: changes in the housing aid scheme and changes in the system of redundancy benefits are now much more burdened on the social budget of municipalities than is usual. Local authorities will not be compensated for this, and improvements in national schemes will have a significant impact on the provision of services in municipalities. We cannot justify national schemes so badly that they go beyond basic services such as school and care for the elderly. We cannot reduce national aid schemes and believe that municipalities will pay for them without compensation from the state. I'm addressing the proposal from the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e359	The representative Heidi Greni has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e365	I am pleased that the government took action in the form of an extraordinary addition to the housing stock, which was implemented before Easter. The supplement was given to the beneficiaries of housing aid and was therefore accurate to those with financial difficulties. This was correct and necessary in terms of the high electricity price that arose in winter. This also led to the removal of an important point with this Document 8 proposal and the first point of the proposal, to which SV rightly pointed. However, we do not find it appropriate to institutionalise heating costs in the housing aid scheme. Of course, these costs vary considerably from month to month, and the sources of heating are also different from home to home. I think there is a broad consensus in this room that the housing support system is an important tool for helping people who are in a difficult economic situation. It is important that developments are closely monitored and that the scheme is always used for those for whom it was intended. I am pleased that the government is assessing this continuously and, where appropriate, proposing adjustments in budgetary processes. I notice that the Workers' Party and the Government's parties agree on the main line here, and I'm happy for it. I recommend the recommendation from the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e378	When the government announced in March that those receiving housing support would receive an extra payment, it was a great relief for many. After a cold winter both inside and outside, this little handshake warmed, and the money made it possible to get it to go around anyway for a bit. But for many of those who have absolutely the least to walk with, this relief was unfortunately short-lived. It was not long after the decision in Stortinget before people around the country received a letter from Nav saying that this money was considered additional income, and thus deducted from the payment of social assistance in May. So far, in Red, we have received reports of concern from people living in Trondheim, Oslo, Horten, Tvedestrand, Mo in Rana and Grimstad. Those who have the worst advice and work the most hard to pay for the high electricity bills in the winter should not get this little handshake anyway, but instead they should be subtracted from what is to cover food and other necessities. This should be seen by several parties being deeply unfair and must be corrected. In a letter from Nav that we have access to, it says – and I quote: If you receive extra housing support, it is important that you set the amount of living expenses from May. Life support is intended to cover all necessary expenses for living, such as food, clothing, medicine, visits to a doctor, simple dental treatment, telephone, home insurance, etc. Those who now get this discount are disappointed about it, because the money for heating would cover the expenses they have already had, so they do not have extra money to spend on living in May. Here in the city is this rate for a lone person who lives alone, NOK 7 100. From that money, it is deducted from almost NOK 3000 in one month. Then you're down to about $4,000 in a lifetime for a lonely one month. It's very hard to live with, and we can't have it like that. We therefore suggest that the government ensure that this payment, which is intended to cover high electricity costs, is not deducted from the payment of social assistance or other support from the municipality. I hope that everyone who has talked about and supported the smoothing effect of the payment will support our proposal. Everything else would be a little illogical and would appear to be a bit hollow, if you supported the extra payment earlier this winter, but now accept that the municipality is actually withdrawing this money. There are also several other holes in the government's solution that should be sealed. First, the money went only to those who received housing support in February. For some, coincidences have caused them to receive two different social security payments or have been made, for example. work for two days and came across the housing support limit just the month for which they were paid, i.e. February. But those who have had bad advice all winter and therefore have needed housing support through a long and cold winter should receive the same support. It is a fair non-discrimination as we see it, and the parties that supported the February payment should look at it more closely and consider whether they will also support it now in the storeroom. We think that the extra payment was the right measure, but it does not solve the problem of high electricity prices for most people or for those who have poor advice, but do not qualify for housing support. Many, not least disabled, have been thrown out of the housing support system by the sitting government and live at a minimum. Red will support the proposals from the SV and the Centre, which can help more people to receive support and that the support also covers heating costs. But the main problem for many is that the power prices are getting higher than before. Electricity for lighting, cooking and heating of ordinary dwellings is absolutely essential. We are not to give low electricity charges to anyone who uses electricity, for example. heating several cabins and their driveway and having several Tesla in the garage, but those with normal consumption should be able to get a lower bill through a differentiated electricity charge. With that, I'll take up Red's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e399	The representative Bears Moxnes has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e404	Power prices have been higher than we've been used to in recent years for several months. High electricity prices are a challenge, especially for those who have a poor economy. In order to remedy the situation of many of those most disadvantaged in society, the Stortinget decided three weeks ago that all government proposals for an exceptional payment to housing beneficiaries. The funds had already been paid one week after the Storting decision. Thus, the House Bank and the housing support system have also proved to be an effective tool to provide the most disadvantaged households with a handshake. The proposers wish to establish new, specific support schemes to meet acute and short-term needs. The hub in the municipalities already has a device to assist those who have acute problems. It is natural that we use the apparatus that is already there, and I therefore believe that there is no need for the proposals from SV. Everyone needs a good and safe dwelling. The housing aid shall ensure that economically disadvantaged persons can afford to stay in a good housing and therefore the government has strengthened and improved the housing support throughout the period. I record that the proposers believe it would be an improvement to include heating costs in the calculation basis. I disagree. What makes housing aid so effective is that it is based on objective and well-documented conditions, which are either disclosed by the applicant and verified once and for all, or which can be retrieved continuously from reliable records. Expenditure on heating varies greatly from month to month. If they were to be included in the housing aid calculation, the recipients had to provide new information every month, which would require a lot of both the beneficiaries and the municipality. For these reasons, housing aid has never taken actual heating costs into account. The government is engaged in a good housing support scheme. This has been demonstrated time and again by proposing improvements: higher ceilings, regular price adjustment, up-to-date income base. We have prioritised the housing support scheme to keep track of price increases and increasing housing costs. In this year's budget, we set aside 60 million. to strengthen housing for families with children and other large households. In the Granavolden platform, we have said that the government will ‘provide a good housing support system targeted at those who need it the most’. It's an important job that we're working on.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e423	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e428	Let me start by thanking the Council of State for the effective follow-up to the Storting decision, with the payment of an extraordinary support to those who needed it most this winter. But in the light of the proposals that have been put on the table today, I have to ask the Council of State: is it correct, as it is claimed from the Parliament's pulpit today by several representatives, that municipalities have taken the additional subsidy for those who have housing aid into the calculation basis, so given with one hand and then removed it? If that's right, what will the Council of State do with it? I agree with those who argue that it wasn't Storting's intention, and it's hard to imagine that it might have been the government's intention. And if the Council of State intends to do something about it, does the Council of State have the necessary powers to prevent the municipalities from withdrawing on the basis that this is a new income?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e433	It is such that the coverage of increased electricity costs through the housing support goes to all those receiving housing support. In the case of social assistance, it is provided under the Social Services Act. In that case, the municipalities must individually assess each beneficiary. These are interim benefits provided in emergency situations to the individual. So there's no reason for mass broadcasts, I would almost say, that incomes are adjusted, you have to make a concrete and individual assessment. Therefore, I would warn against the proposals that have been put forward today, simply because it would override the social service law and what is intended by the law, namely that the municipality should assess each applicant individually. This means that if you have been covered by increased electricity costs from the municipality, of course the municipality can say that when you get the same coverage from the state, you don't get it from the municipality either.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e438	Then I thank you for the answer, but at the same time I would say that I disagree, because this is a one-time payment in an emergency situation. I perceive that the clear intention of the majority in this room was that it should go to those who received housing support. It was a simple, diabolical and effective way to do it. So it shouldn't be based on an individual assessment, as the Council of State now describes it. Against this background, the Labour Party will support proposal No. 5 from Red. So the question of when you had exceptionally high energy costs. The government itself said in its statement that several months this winter has been a higher electricity price than usual, while it is claimed here that only those who received housing support in February have been covered by the scheme. Is that right? And does not the Council of State agree that additional housing support could be needed also because energy costs have been higher for several months during winter?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e445	First, I have to make it clear: what the Storting has decided, what the government has done, is a one-off payment to everyone. No discretion has been made about it, that's not what I'm referring to. I refer to the Social Services Act, which is the law of municipalities to assess whether an individual should receive social services. It shall be dealt with separately — each applicant shall receive an assessment. But the housing allowance is paid to everyone, as intended by the government, and by the Storting. So this is a one-off payment that goes to those who receive housing support now. Whether additional payments should be made — yes, there will be a new assessment, based on a concrete assessment of electricity prices in the future. But what we have taken a stand on now is those who are now entitled to housing support, and who are now receiving a one-off payment, which is granted through the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e450	If I did not completely misunderstand the Council of State, it was said something such as that it was not appropriate to include the heating cost into the basis of housing support. But now the situation is such that survivors' pensioners, disability pensioners and retirement pensioners get a template supplement on the basis of which to compensate for heating costs, if they have a rent that does not include heating, while single parents, families with children, etc. Don't get it. Does the Council not see that this is a strange discrimination — when we have taken the heating cost into account for some of the groups?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e455	That's possible that's odd. This is an old scheme from 1997 when changes were made that coordinated benefits from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the House Bank. At the time, the debate was not linked to increased electricity costs; it was linked to the fact that pensioners who received an assessment of housing support with heating were to be treated in the same way as those who did not. Then, in 2009, the red-green government chose to lay down a regulation that continued this, which was thus a historical system linked to a group that was to be treated in a non-discriminatory manner. It had nothing to do with increased electricity costs, but with the equal treatment of a group, so no one would lose income. So this goes back to 2009. We don't see any reason to change it, simply because electricity costs go up and they go down. If you're going to target the housing support, you have to do it by increasing housing support, and this government has done it for families with children because we think it's the ones that need it the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e463	I have to repeat the question: did the government intend when this one-off payment of housing aid for increased electricity costs was given to all those who receive housing support, that it should be opened so that it could lead to social assistance benefits? And I have to ask again because it was not said in a single word when the matter was dealt with in Stortinget. And it is fully possible to screen such lump-sum payments — or other types of income — as is done in the Law on Social Services in Nav, for example. with regard to the income and social assistance of children. For this – at least as explained – was a special handshake to be added, but that was not correct?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e468	Yes, that's right. It was a special hand bill attached to those receiving housing support. Everyone gets that hand bill. Of course, there was not an assessment under the Social Services Act. It's well known for this hall, it's adopted by this hall. This is a completely different performance. The housing allowance goes to those who receive housing support, they get paid extra expenses. But then the municipality, the case manager in Nav, has to deal with each one individually. This means that it is not allowed to send mass broadcasts to all those receiving social assistance, that they are now losing social assistance. A concrete assessment is to be made, and this is done under the Social Services Act. If you are going to try it out, you are going to take away from the municipalities the judgement they are going to make about who is going to receive social assistance, and who is not going to get it. So it's a completely different system, which has to be covered after an individual treatment. What we've decided is a diabolical payment to everyone, in a difficult situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e475	We were happy when the government in March announced this extra handshake to those who have been struggling with the electricity bills in winter due to very high power prices. And we got a very clear impression that this handshake shouldn't be that you give with one hand, and then to take it back with the other, which is what's now happening in several municipalities, where those who have the least, those who live on social support, get cut off this extra payment against the social welfare benefit. In Oslo, for example, you lose $3,000. So it's the same thing, which is essentially going to be $7,100, and they're going to get about 4,000 a month for a living. Does the Council not see that what is now happening is contrary to the intention of the whole system, that of giving an extra handshake to those who need extra help, rather than giving with one hand and then taking it back with the other?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e480	I have to repeat: what we have done is to make extra payments through schemes that the state governs. What the representative here addresses is arrangements that the municipality governs – and municipalities are governed politically by different parties. I may disagree with many decisions taken by the municipalities, but the question is, Was the intention to override the social service law? Then that's the law you have to deal with. That's not what we invited you to do. I may have opinions on this, but if Oslo has sent out letters to all social welfare recipients in Oslo, it is Oslo's political council that is responsible for it, not the government. So then you have to change the law, then you have to state social assistance. I didn't mean to. But you can't send mass broadcasts to receivers. Individual treatment should be given to each applicant receiving social assistance, assessing whether they are in an economic situation that requires them to have supplementary social assistance or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e487	The cord shift is with the change. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e494	We all agree that you need a good place to live to deal with the challenges life faces. A good housing gives us better health, better quality of life and good conditions for success in work and education. Fortunately, most of us manage to get and keep a good home on our own, but not all. That's why we have a responsibility to ensure that everyone who needs it can just get and keep a good place to live. That is why the housing support system is also incredibly important. This government has strengthened the housing social work and housing support, so that more of those who need it get more. For example, the housing stock is: targeted. We have ensured that the housing aid follows the price increase. The Bout poison bar has been increased every year. The Right has been in government. We've increased support for families with children and made it easier for the public to get housing support. And we've ensured that children's income is not taken into account in the assessment of housing support, so that it's actually possible for young people to take part-time jobs without the parents risk losing it. In the past, housing support was based on two-year-old equations, which resulted in many people getting much more housing support than they actually claimed, which also led to their having difficult and high repayment claims in retrospect. We've done something about that. People now get the housing support they are entitled to, they don't have a hard refund claim. However, this has also led to a decrease in the number of housing beneficiaries and a decrease in the amount of payments. In the state budget for 2019, we have also secured 60 million. kr extra for housing for families with children. For an ordinary family of children, it may amount to more than NOK 5000. In total, all the measures taken by the government to strengthen housing support have resulted in more housing support for those receiving housing support than before. It is quite right that fewer people are getting housing support now than before, but much of the decline is due, as I said, to the fact that there are many people who no longer get housing support they do not have the right to. In addition, the number of housing beneficiaries has fallen from 2011 onwards. The representative Karin Andersen of SV repeatedly mentioned in his post that the housing support covers an increasingly smaller proportion of the boute poisons. But no matter how many times you say that, it doesn't necessarily match. Since 2014, housing has accounted for a relatively stable proportion of users’ living expenditure. On the contrary, between 2010 and 2014, during SV’s reign, the proportion of the bountiful charges covered by the housing aid fell. I am pleased that we have put in place many measures to strengthen housing support. It is an important measure to ensure that everyone has a safe and good housing.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e509	The Council of State has explained in depth that there are different laws in force here, and we fully understand that. But for those who are recipients of this support, and who depend on this support, it doesn't matter very much, for the experience will anyway be that there is a shortening of the aid that was intended to be granted, from the Storting side. For me, it's a central point that this is a one-off case that doesn't form the precedent. Well that's the third time we do it in the '2000s because it's been acute situations, but it's not forming precedents. I still believe that Stortinget's intention is not fulfilled because the Social Services Act is the way it is, and I would therefore recommend that the Workers' Party vote in favour of proposal No. 5th@item: inlistbox I did not get a clear answer to my question as to whether it is only those who received housing support in February, which is covered by the aid scheme that was created, so I assume that it is. When there have been significantly higher electricity prices throughout the winter, several winter months, as the Council of State also said in its observations, there is a basis to see that this burden applies to more than only those calculated into the housing aid base in February. On that basis, the Labour Party will also vote in favour of proposal No. 6 from Red.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e520	SV will also vote in favour of proposal No. 6 and 7, from Red. But in addition, there is a need for quite a number of comments on the debate that has taken place. The social housing policy in Norway has been severely weakened by this government. So we're going to spend less on nominal dollars on housing aid now than we did in 2009. And what has happened to the bout poisons at that time? They've increased dramatically. Yes, in dollars and ears they get the few that now get, a little bit more, but they get a smaller proportion of their bolt tolls covered, ergo they have less at their disposal. It's just reading Prop. 54 S for 2018–2019, as referred to in the one-off aid, and look at the figures there. From Christmas until it was presented, the household income for those who get housing support had fallen further and is now NOK 130 900. I really don't think anyone in this room has the imagination to think how little money it is to support the family. And the jam also says that these families have an average of 97 000 kroner in housing expenses. This isn't going to work. Here's a government that has in buckets and buckets for the richest and strongest among us, but in the case of housing support, you're going to argue with some small rules here and some small rules there to get more and more of what you call targeting to the very, very poorest. But there are many more people who need housing support, because we don't have a housing market that provides housing for everyone, because there's pressure there, and the prices for renting and owning are high on what people with poor advice have the opportunity to do. There is a large aftermath on the housing support that is not fixed. Some elements have been changed, quite correctly, and SV has been for the changes that have been made. One later on, it's like we've been against it; it's not true. We haven't been against it, but we've been against not strengthening the housing support, not taking in the new underprivileged, like the whole Stortinget, I think, apart from the Right, you promised to do when you left the disability insurance scheme. They have failed fundamentally, and they have just as little to pay the rent and the electricity costs with as any of the others. There is now also a proposal in the committee to amend the rental law, so that what the representative of Kjønaas Kjos says will end, that the municipalities can act as house sharks. For they can do that today, and the Advance Party can help fix it if they want to. But I doubt that's going to happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e533	The Council of State could not fully explain what it would be like to pay out for those who had high electricity costs, for example. in December and January, or which happened to have income in February, so that they did not receive housing support in February. The idea must be that everyone who has had extraordinary electricity costs in winter and who is under the scheme must be compensated for it, whether it is the one month or the other that is the challenge. That is why the Centre Party will support proposal No. 6, from Red, which gives equal treatment regardless of which months they have had housing support. In the exchange of replies, when heating costs were included in the calculation basis, the Council of State replied that it is because of equal treatment that disability pensioners, old-age pensioners and survivors' pensioners who do not have heating costs on the basis receive a template supplement on the basis of which to compensate for it. Then I have to ask: is the situation not exactly the same for single parents and families with children, where someone has rents that include heating costs, and someone has rents that do not include heating costs – and that do not get the template supplement that makes them equal, whether or not it is included in the rent? The same thing really holds true. Victims who had housing support before the unpreforming reform get to keep their housing support, and it's very good, while performers who have fallen victim to the new underprivileged reform do not come under the scheme because they have a gross income that goes over the income base. This means that two persons with exactly the same income and exactly the same rental costs, who are disabled but who have been disabled at two different times, are not treated in the same way – because both do not come under the scheme that allows them to retain the housing allowance. It's an unfair treatment that the Center Party will not continue. I hope the Council of State can explain what she thinks about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e540	A few things – to the end of the day about miscarriages that are in the scheme, and miscarriages that are not: this is because changes were made that would cause some miscarriages to lose the housing support. The argument put forward by Mr Greni is that there should be an increase in the income limit. In that case, you have to do it for everyone. But here was the point that someone who had housing support, and who couldn't easily get involved or get increased income or new homes, shouldn't lose it. What we've done is to make sure that this group gets to keep it on a permanent basis, not just temporarily. But if we're going to change the bout rate and the income base, we're going to have to do it for everyone, not just for disabled people, but for everyone with low income. It's a completely different debate. I perceive that the Senterpartiet, SV and the Arbeiderpartiet are upset about the behaviour of the municipalities. That was the exact same thing in 2011. If you go back and look at what the then government did, you give – just like this government has done – extra allocation because of increased electricity prices to all housing beneficiaries. Nav responded by sending a letter, and an individual assessment was made under the Social Services Act. So what you did in 2011 is you're completely against 2019. This may well be because you are not now in government. The point is that the Social Services Act is to be managed by the municipalities. I trust that they will make the assessment they will, linked to each applicant and social welfare beneficiary. Then the representative, Karin Andersen, will have a general debate on housing aid, and we can have that. It's a solid arrangement. We're using over 3 billion. SEK this year on housing aid linked up to 90000 households. Then you might think that the boute venom rate should be increased, and that the prices should have been adjusted, but we have focused on this scheme. It is not a goal that everyone who received housing support in 2013 will get it today. Fortunately, many from 2013 are in a completely different economic situation today. Luckily, we have up-to-date figures, so that people who were previously mispaid, and who were entitled to a refund, do not do so today. It is also true that people who received housing illegally in 2013, for example. 2,000 students, do not have a right to it and should not have it and not receive it. But what we've done is target it towards the group we think it needs the most, namely families with children. It's a work we're going to continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e551	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e557	This government is good at targeting its taxes to the very strongest and richest among us and the cuts of those who have the most difficult. Housing support is severely weakened as a social policy tool, and if a mistake was made in 2011, there is no need to make it again now. It must be possible – when there are so many parties here saying that this was not the intention – to help stop this this this time. These means go to people who have little, who need to warm up their houses. I'm very surprised if the Christian People's Party does not support these proposals. I notice that the Council of State has now had several opportunities to respond to what has been mentioned in proposal No. 6, from Red, whether it's just one month, if you've had high electricity costs just one month, and if you're getting out of the whole scheme, if you've had an income just one month that doesn't give you housing support that month. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e564	There's no time for speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e569	As I said in the change of line, it is those who were recipients of housing support at the time we promoted the proposal, i.e. in February. One place this limit must go, and it is at those who were recipients in February.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e574	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e590	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that up to six lines of reply are given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e599	The commercial industry is an important industry, a large industry and an industry that affects us all. It has therefore been important to get this big message for Stortinget. It was the Stortinget who in its time asked the government to make this big message. The treatment here in Stortinget and the discussions clearly show that it has been important to get it out. The industry has a broad societal significance. It's about the environment, climate, food waste and circular economy. It is about ethical trade, clean and orderly employment, and not least that as countries and consumers, we do not exploit workers, children and production lines in other countries for our own gain. So there are a lot of comprehensive themes in this message that you could spend a lot of time discussing in Stortinget. It is also about the border trade problem and securing Norwegian jobs and Norwegian businesses in a tough market. Much of the government’s policy up until now has been totally flawed, for example, the 350-kroner limit, sugar levy, etc., which has not built up under the commercial industry in Norway but also built up under the commercial industry in Sweden or in the border regions. So that's how we agree on a lot, and that's very good. We agree on a law of good trading practice, which is to be presented during the year. We agree that we should have our own independent supervision of the retail trade. And we want further measures to improve competition. In the decision now, a joint committee states that dominant suppliers must not discriminate against smaller operators or road operators in the market – important leads that can contribute and help to increase competition in the food market, as an example. This is a strong expression of an overall committee for a desire for better competition and healthy competition, a desire for accessibility, and a desire for adaptability and jobs in a situation where the commercial industry is facing major shifts. I think the issues in the message have been addressed in a good way. Trade in goods employs, according to the SSB, 376,000 persons, 302,000 annual works and more than 70 000 establishments. It's huge. 10 pst. the value creation takes place in the commercial sector. 14 pst. the employment is there. This is an industry that means a lot to Norwegian work and to our employability. It also gives very many young people their first meeting with the Norwegian working life and the Norwegian working life model. It employs many without a diploma or higher education, and it employs many women. It is therefore of great importance that the transition that comes be met in the best possible way. Then, of course, there is one key factor dealing with this. It's competence. A key factor in meeting the challenges is, of course, competence both at the workplace and at the employer’s premises and strengthening tripartite cooperation. And then it says a lot of good in the message. It says, among other things, as the government says: ‘Trepartial cooperation contributes to increased motivation, efficiency and reduced conversion costs in the Norwegian economy.’ It's a sentence that makes a social-democratic heart beat! However, when one reads the rest of the message to find the measures to build up below it, there may be a risk of cardiac arrest, because the measures are inadequate, unfortunately. Nevertheless, the government continues: ‘In the process of maintaining and further developing the competence of staff during conversion, there is reason to believe that the level of organisation is important.’ It's very well written! The level of organisation of trade in goods is low compared to other industries. In 2016, the degree of organisation was 23 pst. in the retail trade and 28 pst. in wholesale – as opposed to other industries, e.g. industry, where 57 pst. is organised, or in public administration, where 81 pst. is organised. But what is the government doing? Yes, in the government statement they recognise the unorganized working life. There is not one area — one single action — in this big picture message that builds up under organised labour. On the contrary, the government's policy and government statement is to break down. Strengthening the skills of employees, the ability of companies to meet the change that one is facing, should be the most important task of this paper and should respond in a good and reassuring way. 40,000 people, if launched in the message, are at risk of losing their jobs. Trade and Offices assume that there will be much more. There is not one measure in this Communication that builds on the need to ensure and improve the adaptability of the commercial industry. I think that's a shame. Therefore, it would have been desirable to agree to the proposals that, among other things, The working party is behind and builds up under the conversion force in an important industry. And then I take up the suggestions that the Workers' Party is promoting with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e629	The representative of Terje Aasland has addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e634	As the previous representative pointed out, there is a lot of consensus. That's good, because the trade is one of our most important industries. It's all over the country, it employs hundreds of thousands of people, and it's too many also the gateway to working life and the beginning of many careers. It is therefore important that the notification has come to the Grand Duchy for treatment. It is also good that the message describes the situation well, and at the same time it makes it clear that, like many other industries, this is an industry in the middle of a demanding transition. Among the major challenges are digitisation, global competition, changes in consumption patterns and sustainability requirements, to mention something. One of the needs highlighted by the Committee is that it continues to facilitate a good policy of competence and education, in order to maintain and further develop the competences of those who work in the industry. The government announces that it will launch a new skills reform, learn throughout its life, to improve access to flexible continuing training throughout the education system, which will also benefit this industry. It is also worth pointing out that the government will establish a new education programme in secondary school, in order to ensure that vocational training is more adapted to the needs of the commercial industry. Some offers are developed in cooperation between universities, universities or specialised schools and enterprises and businesses. The vulnerable industries and enterprises report an increasing need for staff with a professional background and vocational education, stressing the importance of government prioritising training and continuing training for low-skilled and skilled workers. Such sectoral programmes shall be developed and financed in cooperation between the public and industry themselves. Thus, the state pays to develop and operate the offers, the industry invests its own resources, and individual employees are expected to invest some of their leisure time. We are also asking the UK Government today to consider whether such programmes should be extended to more than one sector. The commercial industry is a natural place to assess such a type of programme. The commitment to the participation of several people in trials on modules at primary and vocational education and training also increases the possibility of getting a position to receive a letter and making it easier to combine training with work. The trade sector is changing, and there is also a continuous growth in the industry. Different goods are now offered in places that were not previously given them. There is candy and dog food at the traditional hardware store, there are hot small dishes and cosmetics at the gas station, washing liquor and electric car charge in the local food store. Some shops offer almost everything from car rims to fresh bread. And the Internet is open 24 hours a day, even on Sundays. There are several factors driving this development, including: The digitisation – necessarily – changes in how we consumers react, national and international trends, as well as the concept development and innovation of actors. While industry-sliding can create challenges for optimal competition, industry-sliding can also be positive for competition. What is certain is that this image will change rapidly, and it will change continuously. It is for this reason that government parties are asking the government to follow the situation in the future with regard to industrial sliding in the total daily goods market. The exact groceries market is an important part of the commercial industry. Norway has higher prices and a more limited sample of retail trade than our neighbouring countries. This can be explained by several factors – geography, scattered population, climate, policy-defined framework conditions. That is why I would also like to mention that this part of the trade is particularly important, and that we are therefore looking forward to the Good Trade Act. It will be able to work positively in the part of the value chain between the chains and the supplier. This, together with the increased focus and competence of the Competition Authority on competition in the market, could benefit consumers over time, with a more diverse offer and with more goods at a fairer price. At the same time, it could also contribute to a better balanced value chain than the one we see today. The challenges of the commercial industry are moving goals. Therefore, the policy solutions must be robust and dynamic at the same time. What's right today can be old-fashioned as early as tomorrow. It is our responsibility to provide as much framework conditions as possible, as far as possible predictability and mechanisms to facilitate healthy competition and innovation. It is for the benefit of the industry, and it is for the benefit of consumers.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e653	As the previous speaker pointed out, there is agreement on a great deal in this position, and there has been good cooperation in order to get a good position on this business. But there's also some disagreement about some points, which it might be okay to raise. I want to point out something that the Progress Party is a little busy. At the bottom of page 13 of the adjustment is a note that the government parties are behind, and to which I would like to refer. It says, among other things.\t\t You can change the ‘The majority point to the fact that the whole of the groceries market is also exposed to changes and that groceries, kiosks and service stations increasingly meet the same consumer needs. Examples are the supply of groceries, fast meal solutions, props and energy in the form of fuel sales and charging options for an electric car. The majority note that such an industry shift can create challenges for optimal competition in the overall groceries market. However, the majority would point to the fact that the trend in the industry can also be positive for competition. The majority are asked by the government to follow the situation of industrial sliding in the total groceries market.» This is important, because we have a food business that is complex. We have gas stations and kiosks that have a slightly different structure today than they had a few years ago. ‘Petrol’ means that there are outlets which sell petrol, oil and other goods essential for the operation or maintenance of motor vehicles and motorboats. ‘Kiosk’ means the sale that essentially sells kiosk goods. But over time it has become increasingly difficult to distinguish kiosks, gas stations and grocery stores. There are several relationships associated with it. Among other things, we have it with opening hours, evening and Sunday openers. It has increased since the alcohol regulation § 3-4 was adopted in 1998, which I will come up with. This was due, inter alia, to: the repeal of the Opening Time Act and the introduction of Brustad Arcs. The grocery stores have also established over time concepts that completely or partially overlap the concepts that the kiosk and petrol industries used to offer alone. We're concerned that competition should be equal, but once we've got the business spark we've got now, competition isn't that similar anymore. Gas stations sell groceries to a much greater extent, and shops sell car supplies to a much greater extent. But there is one product area where the gas stations, which have become largely grocery stores, are not allowed to sell, and there are low-alcohol drinks. This leads to a distortion of competition, a distortion of competition that goes beyond the refuelling stations, which is today more like shops. It is important to note, then, that the Competition Authority said the following: ‘The fire slide makes it difficult to make a clear distinction between grocery stores, kiosks and service stations and draws towards the fact that the operators concerned are competing in the same product market. In general, competitors in the same market should be faced with a level playing field [[...]] Here's some of what I want to focus on, lying down. What is strange is that today you can order all the groceries online – including beer. Then you can go to a kiosk or a gas station and pick up these goods – also the beer. But this kiosk or this gas station, which sells essentially the same products as a grocery store does, is not allowed to sell this product itself. You can also order all kinds of groceries online – including beer – and have them sent to your home. But kiosks and gas stations, which are today more like grocery stores, are not allowed to sell this product. It's a distortion of competition, and I'm glad that the majority have asked the government to follow up the situation of industrial sliding in the entire daily food market.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e676	The commercial industry is a major industry, which employs nearly 400,000 people and accounts for 10 pst. by the value creation in mainland Norway. It is the gateway to the world of work for many, but also an arena for further development and careers in the world of work. It is an industry that is present throughout the country. I think the trade industry has long felt like a bit of a forgotten industry in this room, and that was the background for the Senter Party in the previous period to put forward a proposal for a representative that we should have our own big business message. That ended with Stortinget, and that's the message we're dealing with today. Commercial industries face some major challenges. Online commerce will present challenges to the established commercial industry, and the government's subsidisation of online trade from abroad through the so-called 350-kroner limit and sugar levy increase are targeted measures to weaken the Norwegian commercial industry. It must be stopped. I also record that there was a lot of enthusiasm in the listener that we got a big message about the trade, and there was a great deal of commitment attached to the different themes that the message took up. There are a lot of themes that could have been inside. That's a great deal of unity. At some points, it doesn't always have to be. For example, when it comes to good trade law, it's been a struggle the opposition has fought for several years, and it's a pleasure that there's now a large number behind it. It says that one should have independent trade supervision, but the majority – all the non-participants of the Centre – write a note that in reality says that the most sensible thing is to put such supervision close to the daily food industry. In practice, that would mean in Oslo. I thought that something of the intention to spread supervision across the country was to create a necessary distance, and that a geographical location outside Oslo would not prevent good oversight and effective communication with the industry. I'm going to go over to comment a little bit on what the representative Morten Ørsal Johansen had to say in his post, because it was on the verge of magic, what we experienced from the pulpit here, where the representative Ørsal Johansen needed to tell you that the Progress Party disagreed that it should not be allowed to sell beer at the gas station – to say it a little popular. The representative Ørsal Johansen referred to a large part of a comment that deals with industry gliding, but he failed to do one thing. He simply failed to say what is the meaning of the Progress Party in the Storting and in the setting, where it says: ‘The majority share the government’s assessment not to go further with the proposal to amend the legislation on the authorisation of the sale of alcoholic beverages in the alcohol regulation § 3-4.’. This is a plural comment that is included in the Progress Party. So here's what you're trying to say is that the Progress Party is inconsistent with this, but one in the setting, not in the government, but in the Stortinget, choose to support a comment that says this is a proposal that should not go further. I think that's good, but I don't want to pretend that one has a different position. It becomes too easy to reveal. With the good experience of this commercial industry message, the Centre Party is in favour of a proposal that we should have a self-declaration on the food industry, which is also facing major challenges. It's an industry that has a potential for growth, and I hope that the government also sees, with the good experience we have with this big message, that it would be appropriate to have a big message about the food industry, and that the majority can turn that point around.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e698	The trade industry is by far the largest private industry in this country, with approx. 300000 annual works, up to almost 400000 added. Many of them are unskilled. According to forecasts, about 40,000 of those who work in this industry here, due to different conditions, will disappear out of the industry over the next ten years. This is maybe the industry where we see technological developments really come as a train, and it's going to have a huge impact on the industry. When about 10-15 pst. Of those added to Norway's top industries, we're about to leave the industry over the next ten years, and many of them are unskilled, we're facing a formidable challenge as a society. What the government is doing is pointing to Learning all its life, a message that comes in 2020. It is, as far as I understand, a general strategy such as, among other things, this industry will benefit, but it will have to come in 2020. With the experience of the Stortinget working on messages in the Ministry of Food and Fisheries, we can expect it to go even further. We are still waiting for a space strategy that has been announced for several years, we are still waiting for an allowance message that we have been waiting for for for several years, etc. It's an unlikely passive attitude from the government with regard to how to meet the enormous challenge it actually represents. An estimate that 40,000 – if it is true, one also assumes that the number may be even higher – will leave this industry over the next ten years. A lot of people are unskilled, so they don't have anywhere else to go. So the question is, are we going to view this as a great possibility for society, for which we are going to have both general and special measures? It has been highlighted by both NHO, Trade and Office and LO that one should have special programs/modules at the workplace where one can learn a job in order to get professional learning and also get to work. It's too passive from the government, and it also shows the other challenges we have as a society, when more and more people have to change pastures for different reasons. So there's a question of organizational degree. The government recognizes that there is a low level of organisation in this industry and that there is a problem, but the problem is that one does not follow up with measures. One does nothing progressive to do something about the low level of organisation. This is the question of a practical recognition of unorganised working life, which is quite new to the government, and quite new to the social partners. Both the employer page and the employee page are very busy with an organized working life. It's surprising that the government isn't. We are in a situation of great challenges – of course also great opportunities – and so the Progress Party holds an article that only deals with beer in a gas station. It is exciting in this debate. Let me also point out some of the suggestions that SV raises in the matter. Franchise: Norway is one of the most liberal countries for the establishment of franchises – we have known for a long time. It's an organizational form that's very beneficial to franchisee givers, and very little beneficial to franchisee takers. It's a big hole. In the event of a dispute, cases will not be dealt with in Norwegian law if, for example: franchisor is abroad. This means that the regulations on health and safety at work, etc. will not be handled because they are going to be held abroad. It is a large hole that should be recognized in the further work that the government announces that one should enter, for this undermines both franchisees and rights added. It is likely that the franchisee make up most of the small and medium-sized players in this country. We are also waiting for a food waste strategy. It has been decided by the Stortinget all the way back to 2016 and on several other occasions. We're waiting in excitement for what's going on there. It was the Christian People's Party that took the initiative in the first place. Climate risk has also been pointed out by the Ministry of Finance, but here we propose to report on it. There is no government party willing to join. I will only show you further to the setting. I refer to the SV suggestions in the configuration.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e719	The representative of Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e724	Trade is one of the most important industries in any country, and it accounts for a large part of both employment, value creation and the well-being of our society. It is also among the industries most affected by technological developments that offer both great opportunities and a number of challenges. For the Left, it has been important to facilitate the development and flowering of the commercial industry under changing conditions. Norwegian traders in trade are highly adaptive and have made rapid use of the possibilities offered by, in particular, online commerce. At the same time, it is not to hide that the industry is far more competitive than ever before. Competition is very positive for consumers, who get a greater offer and lower prices of different products from around the world, and as long as competition also promotes innovation and innovation in Norwegian industry, there is no need to look dark in the future. However, it is important that the State adheres to developments and ensures that systems and legislation are always adapted to a new era. Of course, this concerns the removal of the duty-free limit for private imports, which must be implemented in a thorough and good manner, but also measures to help the industry with the strengthening of its competence. In this context, there is reason to enjoy both the government's announced reform of competences, the lifelong learning that will benefit both workers and employers in several sectors, and the efforts of the government in the field of industrial research that are well under way. There is no doubt that a forward-looking trade industry, with increased awareness of the climate and the environment both by consumers and authorities, will look different from what we are used to, and that knowledge becomes crucial for the success of both the individual and the industry as a whole in the coming years. It is also essential and important that service trade, like other industries, be fair in terms of conditions of competition. The daily food market is particularly exposed to rapid changes, and we see today that groceries in kiosks and service stations are increasingly meeting the same consumer needs. The majority of the Committee has noted that such an industrial sliding can create challenges for optimal competition in the overall daily food market, and therefore calls on the government to follow the situation of industrial sliding in an overall daily food market. For the Left, in 2018 we promoted a proposal here at Stortinget on a probationary system in which selected municipalities are given local access to process applications for sales permits from kiosks and gas stations. The time was not ripe for such a change as we proposed, but it is not impossible that there will be changes as time goes on. Every day, employees in the commercial industry do a very important job for their customers, their businesses and their local communities. However, at a time when more and more of our communication takes place digitally, shops will exist as important meeting points in the everyday lives of many. We have a common responsibility to ensure that industries can continue to grow and create values, jobs and tax revenues for the welfare society in the future, and that developments take place in order, with tripartite cooperation as a crucial framework. I therefore look forward to continuing the debate on this important industry when the government is going to present its announced legislative proposals, and I am convinced that this and other measures that the government has put in place and is working on will provide good time for our commercial industry in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e745	When Stortinget asked the government in the spring of 2017, a big deal about the trade industry, there were several reasons for this. According to the Central Bureau of Statistics, in 2017, trade in goods employed around 376,000 persons, corresponding to around 302,000 annual works. The commercial industry contributes to around 10 pst. of the total value creation in mainland Norway. In addition to the value creation itself and the contribution to employment, it is a fact that trade in goods, in particular, allows many young people to work, who get their first meeting with the labour market as shopkeepers. Many with low formal competence are also given the opportunity to work regularly in the trade in goods. Therefore, the contribution of the trade industry to ensure a high level of employment in Norway makes it important to highlight the framework conditions for industry in a separate wholesale notification. At the same time, trade is facing major shifts in time, where, in particular, digitalisation and e-commerce, both nationally and cross-border, are challenging. This means that major requirements for conversion will be imposed, both technologically and operationally. It again demands increased and changed skills requirements for employees at all levels. In this context, it is essential that national authorities focus on active organisation, so that these transitions can be as successful as possible to ensure competitiveness and employment in industry. In the following I will briefly mention some issues that are highlighted in the paper and the committee position that are particularly important to us in the Christian People's Party. Firstly, we are very pleased that the government has an active and offensive approach to meeting the need for new and changing skills in the commercial sector in a demanding transition phase. This applies not least to the large group of low-formal employees. We are pleased that the government is warning a level of competence, especially in terms of digital skills for those who are training or working in the commercial industry. Both the announced skills reform for working life, the learning of life, and a new training programme for sales, services and travel, which is more adapted to the needs of the commercial industry, will contribute to increased adaptability. The same applies to the strengthening of the Competence plus system, which ensures those with the lowest formal competence basic language and calculation skills and thus increased ability to master demands and change at the workplace. In the face of increased international competition because e-commerce accounts for an increasing proportion of the turnover in the commercial sector, it is also important to remove distorting specific rules favouring foreign operators in the market. The 350-kroner rule is such a provision that is, in effect, subsidising online trade with the rest of the world, causing a significant trade leakage in Norwegian goods. The organisations for the trade industry in Norway have for a long time demanded the removal of the 350-krona rule, and we in the Christian People's Party are happy to have achieved an impact that will take place from 1 January next year. We are also pleased that an overall committee, in various comments on pages 13 and 14, clearly states that the current alcohol policy should remain firm and that it is not appropriate to make changes to the laws and regulations governing the placing on the market of alcoholic beverages in order to affect the smooth functioning of the industry. Here, in the Christian People's Party, we want to give clear support to our partners in government cooperation because they stand by important formulations in the Granavolden platform, and that it is clearly expressed both in the bigotry message itself and in majority remarks. For someone more than for others, taking one for the team means taking one for the team, and we know that to value. Then, fortunately, it's not a ban on the performance of a party's primary position, even if you're in government cooperation. It was just to be missing that it should not be possible. If you get in the situation that we get a government change, there are many of us who are very excited about how the Central Party will deal with the issue of the future of the EEA Agreement. It is likely that there will also be a question of whether to be able to present a primary position in relation to a government statement. Finally, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, I would like to welcome the fact that an overall committee refers to the Mercury programme as an important regional policy instrument to be further developed and strengthened. This is a state-funded grant scheme for small retail stores around the district of Norway. I myself live in a small branch where the local store has received several grants through the Merkur programme. It has ensured further operation, and thus an important prerequisite for maintaining the residence in my home built. Sometimes it gives a little bit more meaning to politics. The small grips may seem insignificant in the broad context of the processing of a big message, but for those of our countrymen who live and thrive as residents in district municipalities – in the countryside, as it is called – such a handshake from the Storting is of immeasurable importance.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e769	Here, political Norway has acted as a good trading enterprise – the Stortinget has ordered, and the government has delivered. It is good that it seems that there is a consensus that the product you have received is generally good quality. It is important, because the commercial industry is of great importance to the Norwegian economy, to value creation, and there are many people working there, as many have said. The development of productivity in industry has also been a strong driver of productivity development in the Norwegian economy. The industry is now in a period of major changes, and it is therefore a good time for a debate on an industry that has become a little out of the political spotlight and at least has not been the one that has been discussed the most in this Chamber. A well-functioning trade industry is important, and we need to facilitate good migration within a sustainable framework. It involves facilitating the development and use of new business models by the industry, including: because the obvious happens, namely that the boundary between physical shops and online shops is being cleared up, and the experience of physical shops is changing. Large parts of the trade are shifted to digital platforms, and we can expect a restructuring in parts of the trading industry. At the same time, we see increased online trade from abroad and border trade. We need to facilitate the Norwegian trade industry to meet the competition of foreign players and to exploit the opportunities offered by online commerce. International competition increases the importance of international regulation for the commercial industry. I can mention one example of this, which is not about the EEA Agreement, but about the rules for postage and freight, where there have been unreasonablely low postage costs for many years by sending mail from e.g. China. It is important in the overall economic and industrial policy with growth-promoting tax relief. It is important that we make changes that eliminate additional competitive disadvantages for the Norwegian commercial industry, for example. to close the duty-free limit for imports of goods with effect from 1 January 2020. It is going to make Norwegian commerce better equipped to meet the competition from foreign online shops. The reason why it shouldn't just be done overnight is that it's smart to have a good and efficient system in place, so that you don't get very many angry consumers or create big problems for, for example. The post. In order to facilitate migration, we need to invest in digital skills in education and training, so that Norwegian businesses and trade in goods can develop and deploy new technologies. We will establish a new training programme in vocational training more adapted to the needs of the commercial industry. The lifelong learning of skills reform should help to ensure that no one goes out to date and that more people are left to work anymore. The provision of continuing training in digital competence is an area of initiative. It is the Ministry of Knowledge that has the primary responsibility for the reform of competences, but it is not that much is happening on the competence front because we are waiting for a major reform – rather, on the contrary, a lot is happening both in the field of continuing education, competence and in a number of other areas, including industry programmes. The employment share of the industry has fallen in recent years. Restructuring and streamlining are likely to strengthen development and change the need for competence. Young people and persons with low formal qualifications have traditionally been an important group of professionals in the industry. They're probably still going to be, but this is the workforce that society needs to solve many of the challenges in the years to come. Effective competition is important to contribute to efficient resource use, and it is positive for the conversion of Norwegian business. Effective competition is essential for consumers, for example: high quality food. Therefore, it is important to strengthen the enforcement of the competition law in the daily food industry, as well as to provide legislation on good trade practices and to investigate measures for increased competition in the sale and distribution of food. The Government’s innovation policy shall contribute to new solutions that would not otherwise be developed. We must also be pleased to note that the appropriations for industrial research and innovation have increased in recent years and that the trade industry is increasingly taking part and taking part in this. It is also important to say that the trade industry can and must contribute to the green shift through new business models and the circular economy. We're going to be a leading country in the development of a green circular economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e792	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e797	It's good that the Council of State said that we agree on a lot, but there's also a part that we disagree on. It's probably so important, and it's probably so important to deal with the future. In the Storing Message, the government writes: ‘In the process of maintaining and further developing the competence of staff during conversion, there is reason to believe that the level of organisation is important.’ I assume, since the Council of State is responsible for the notification, that he agrees with that statement. When the level of organisation then is as low as it is in the commercial sector, there may be reason to ask the questions: What measures does the Council of State think should be implemented in order to strengthen the level of organisation of the commercial industry and, where appropriate, has it proposed any measures to strengthen the level of organisation of the commercial industry through this notification, or has the government proposed measures to strengthen the level of organisation of the Norwegian labour market?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e809	The Minister of Labour and Social Affairs has started to cooperate with the social partners for this very purpose, including: will be set up a working group to look at how to bring together the level of organisation where it should go. So it's important to say that the membership process itself is not a government task. That's what trade unions have to do. Then the whole of political Norway has a very important contribution, because we have just a tax sponsorship of being a trade union member that this government has retained. This means getting a tax advantage to be organised, because it is important for Norway. Then it is likely that the main measures here are measures such as trade unions that organise in the commercial sector have also demanded, among other things. a commitment to competence, a description of the challenges and skills needs in industry. It is, of course, not a direct contribution to the registration of more than one person, a visible indication that they are being implemented and heard and that the organisation is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e814	It is interesting to hear the Council of State stress tax sponsorship with regard to the deductions from the trade union quota. Well, there are many other areas in society too, not least other large capital values, that are tax-sponsored by this government, perhaps to a much greater extent than what is involved in the trade-union deduction. I do not see that a single measure has been promoted, rather a single good reflection from the Minister of Industry on the way to building a stronger level of organisation in an industry that is very unorganised in terms of both workers and employers. I didn't expect the Minister of Industry to go out and work in any way, but he could more clearly express the importance of strengthening the level of organisation. The second is the relationship to tripartite cooperation. The message reads as follows: ‘Trepartial cooperation contributes to increased motivation, efficiency and reduced conversion costs in the Norwegian economy.’ What measures have been proposed in this big message to improve tripartite cooperation, President?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e828	The president doesn't think she has the answer, but maybe the council has?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e833	Firstly, in the case of tax sponsorship, the trade union deduction is good, it is excellent. It is important that we have, and it has been one of my battles for a long time. I must also say that I worked for the Right, which was previously against this deduction, to turn around. Then it's not the government's job to put forward concrete proposals on how the trade unions are going to work to get the organizational degree up, but we're going to use the tripartite cooperation. It is a little surprising that the representative of Aasland describes the tripartite cooperation as being built by the government making proposals to strengthen it. This message is also the result of tripartite cooperation. How so? Well, because we're meeting the social partners -- we're meeting Trade and Office, we're meeting Active, we're meeting the NHO, we're getting footage. We have several rounds where we hear what they are concerned about, and then we try with our political mandate to balance different concerns and find good solutions. So I want to say that the message itself is both an important illustration and an important contribution to tripartite cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e838	It is interesting to hear that the Minister of Industry has tax deductions for trade-organised as one of his battles. I've never registered it outside, but it might be nice to know. Then it's a little strange that they've never reinforced the tax deduction to organize themselves in the government period they've had. But competence is an essential part. When asked about the parties, both the employee organisations and the employers’ organisations, the lack of competence measures in this communication is precisely what they are asking for. It would be an idea, if a large-scale tripartite cooperation, actually invited the parties together to ask how one in tripartite cooperation can strengthen the acute and precarious situation that is now, with the need to fill up skills, to continue training, so that the industry is as equipped as possible for the transition ahead. I can challenge the Council of State to respond to the following: How many tripartite meetings have been held in relation to the conversion needs of the industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e845	Now I do not dare to respond to how many concrete meetings we have had with the social partners on this communication, which has all been about the conversion needs in the industry. It is the Ministry of Knowledge that is responsible for the reform of competence. What we contribute is, among other things, the business perspective, which is crucial. I remember when I became a knowledge minister, who was otherwise just after I was a labour and social policy spokesperson in the Right and fought for the peace of the trade union deduction – we blew the dust of competence policy. It lay and dusted in a corner after eight years of red-green government. That's when it's speeded up! What's happened in this area? That there's going to be a bigger reform is kind of just the jewel in the crown. There's been a lot of support – 40 million. kr – for digital continuing education. A sectoral programme has been established to provide a model for further development of competence. We have strengthened Competence plus, which is one of the most important tools we have, which also involves tripartite cooperation, in order to fill skills in key industries. We also have... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e854	I'm going to be very concrete, because the Council of State mentioned both in its contribution and now this industry programme for continuing training. Is an industry programme in place to further develop the commercial industry? Can he mention one sectoral programme relevant to this industry in relation to those established?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e859	The two sectoral programmes under way are for the municipal care sector and the industrial and construction industries. But the whole point here is that the government is testing industry programs precisely because tripartite cooperation is important, that's a good way to work. The starting point is not that it's just going to be them, and then it's not going to do anything further. The whole point is to try out and work out this as a model. In addition to the fact that every year, every year we have been in government, we have first blown off the dust and then strengthened the policy of competence – we have done so in every budget – we have announced a major reform of competence that I have heard several parties in this room, among others. The working party, has requested. It also means that the commercial industry will be a very good candidate for an additional industry programme, but may also be one of the most important industries to be reformed. We can talk a lot about this, but it lies primarily in the Department of Knowledge area – it has to be said.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e865	It is good to hear that state councils use the days to keep it clean in the office and dry dust. A proposal that I think is a good reason to give priority to this is the proposal on so-called return commissions. That means that shops pay guides or travel companies to take their customers to their shop, a so-called Syden practice, I would call it. A letter in the message and in the setting that a person is working on the problem, but my question to the Council of State is: What is the Government's view of these return commissions?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e872	I believe that return commissions, as has been described in the media, are problematic, and I am not denying that it should be regulated. The reason why I think it is a little too early to go into a proposal for a ban is simply that the preliminary assessments we have made show that it may be difficult to impose a ban in a way that does not also affect activities that we believe are quite right. So we've picked up and taken this case. Now we've tried to get an overview of the scope and type of return commissioning practice. It is important to say that parts of this can also be illegal today – the most obvious thing is if you avoid taxation or do lightly business or something like that. Then we're going to use it to see if it's possible to make regulation, and if it's necessary to make regulation for this. I fully understand, and I fully agree with, among other things. operators in travel life, who see that this is unfair and unfair.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e877	Thanks for the answer. I want to use the next question on a theme that has been given some space in the message and some space in the configuration, but which is not included in the debate, e.g. ethical commerce. Consumers are often occupied with cheap goods. It may be a cheap bike for a few hundred patches. It could be a donger rib case for a hundred patches or other items. Price is important. But I would think that many people are also busy – and should be busy – that these goods are produced under decent working conditions without the use of child labour. So my question to the Council of State is: What will the Council of State do to ensure that goods in Norwegian shops are produced decently and without the use of e.g. child labour?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e884	There are several things here. Firstly, when we enter into free trade agreements, both human rights and employee rights are central to what we want in the free trade agreements. The government platform also says that we want to introduce a modern anti-slavery law. That work is now in progress. Whether it becomes the Ministry of Justice or the Ministry of Economic Affairs, or a type of cooperation, is not quite clear, but it will also be an important contribution in this respect. It is also worth noting that in the big news of public acquisitions, human rights and employee rights are widely mentioned, and the public is a major buyer. So my final point is that it's probably not that we can guarantee that any product at any time fills any ethical criterion. Therefore, consumer organisations, activist organisations, NGOs are so crucial to press the market to do things better.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e893	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e900	Three out of ten families in Norway have been disadvantaged financially under the right-hand government and Erna Solberg. These work a lot in stores to make sure that the others have what we need, and in this group there are several people who lack a basic right to a pension from the first penny. The debate on such an important part of the world of work and business as the commercial sector is shows the clear distinction between the parties that prioritise the broad sections of the population and the workers and those who give priority to the few at the top. By providing pensions from the first crown, one will help to improve the economic prospects for many of those who work hard on the floor, every day, to give others a good supply. In order to ensure a good supply of goods, it is essential that businesses have the opportunity to distribute the goods. When the government has to follow the decision of the Storting with the law on good trade, distribution will be a key issue in this major and important issue. Today, some companies are being squandered from shops or get very poor conditions because some people have enormous power by controlling distribution. The very heading of this trade message is very clever. It's called the Commerce Industry – when the customer always has a network. But if the right-wing government had traveled a little bit around the country, it would quickly be discovered that not everyone always has a network, and not all companies have access to high-speed networks either. Therefore, we need to increase investment in high-speed networks in Norway, both for customers and – not least – for business. The Labour Party believes this should be a right in line with electricity – fundamental thoughts that were crucial when we built the country and that we now need to continue in our time. Summary: It is therefore clear that with a better overall approach for both workers, families and businesses, we could change the heading of the Commercial Industry with the Workers' Party structure – when the customer always has a network, when employees have a real wage and pension and the companies get a delivery.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e913	The commercial industry is the largest service industry in Norway, as well as in my home municipality, Drammen, and in my home country, Buskerud. When digitalisation and online commerce from abroad challenge jobs in Norway, we also do so locally. The drama is often a 1 pst. municipality based on national numbers and Buskerud a 5 pst.-state. Figures from the SSB show that this is good for employees in the goods trade, with 5,500 in Drammen and 21,500 in Buskerud. When it is feared that 40,000 are at risk of losing their jobs, 400 of these will be resident in Drammen and 2,000 in Buskerud. These are pretty dramatic numbers. Many are women and young people without education. Last Tuesday I visited one of the trusted electors of the Gulskogen Center in the Drama together with the coworker Masud Gharahkhani, and she was worried. She told me how the number of employees has decreased and decreased in the years she herself has been employed and trusted in the store, and she told me that customers come to the store, try clothes, go home and order online. But it doesn't just keep pointing out the challenges. Measures need to be put in place to counteract the negative development of the industry. It's important to show that this is a decent job, not just an intermediate for students on their way to something else. Trade and Buskerud Office have clear feedback on what is needed: Making people aware of where to shop online. What do we know about additives, child labour and environmental impacts when goods are sent package for package by plane instead of bulk? In online trade from abroad, we have no control over the chain from production to consumption. Networking should be directed towards Norwegian shops and retail chains. To make employees aware of the importance of being organised in order to participate in the lift of skills. The level of organisation is too low. Providing skills-enhancing while people are at work. It is too late when the job is lost. The store letter needs to be updated. In some places, the principle of longevity is set aside for the benefit of so-called suitability for down-staffing. Therefore, HK will combine training and work in a modular on-the-job training programme. It is in line with decisions at the National Labour Party meeting to learn to work and learn on the way to work. In the 2019 budget, we proposed 100 million. kr to a National Labour Skills Fund but was downgraded. We are promoting a number of proposals for this Communication, but are being downgraded, as we have previously been downgraded in measures to support the organised labour market. Today’s government has so far contributed to the weakening of the commercial industry through its fiscal policy. The Minister of Labour has said she wants to equip Nav to receive those who lose the job. I'm afraid it's too passive.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e943	This is an important and good debate, but I can't stop coming in and discussing districts and consequences for district policy. The Working Party, SV and not least the Centre Party are trying to show up as district lots. But at least there is not much district policy about the proposal – or I'm sorry, it's actually not a proposal, it's just a remark. It is perhaps because you are so smart that you realize that it would have been very little smart to promote a proposal to remove the 350 kroner limit from 1 August 2019, because the technical and technological solutions that exist today will not be possible. I understand – and I hope that the Working Party, SV and the Center Party also understand – that removing the 350-kroner limit has some major consequences. The post office – which is in transition because we stop sending mail, we stop sending packages in the amount we did before – has to reduce the mail delivery. I think that if you are going to carry mail and have mailmen around the country, they must have some mail to deliver. And the consequence of what is stated in the comment from the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party, is that the Post will get up to 200 million. kr less to ensure that postal agents travel around and distribute the post which is no longer there. That's the consequence. I would also like to say that it is produced as if the 350-kroner limit is a beer or not, but this stands for approx. 0.5 pst. by Norwegian trade in goods. This isn't just about new products, it's actually a part that collects and buys a lot of other things from abroad that there's a low limit on, but that now have to pay VAT, as they've so far escaped. So I think it's a very bad idea to want to speed this up. The Progress Party and I initially wanted not to remove the 350-kroner limit that is there, but it lies in the platform that you want to do it from 2020. But then you have to have the technical solutions in place, and the Post itself says that they cannot put this in place until 2020. We also see the consequences in other countries that have tried it, for example. Sweden, where 80–90 pst. of turnover decreased. They had to send 300000-400000 packages back where they came from, as the customer would not pick them up because they would not pay this extra cost.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e954	It is quite incredible to hear the representative Hoksrud – free from foreign trade in particular. It is also necessary to stimulate imports and online commerce in order to secure the Posten workplaces. That concern he should have taken in another arena. To remove the 350-kroner limit, when the Minister of Industry proudly says that this is a good measure to strengthen the trade industry from 1 January 2020, he should have taken into account that he and his government have caused the trade industry the disadvantages and consequences – which are quite dramatic – by introducing the 350-kroner limit, which is clearly a significant deterioration. One question now is whether the government of the revised national budget will notify that the 350-kroner limit will be removed from 1 January 2020 – or will they not announce it? I would like to stress that 1 August is a fully realistic time to implement this. Especially for the many who have their work related to the commercial industry. Christian People's Party representative Steinar Reiten is very happy, not least to keep the alcohol away from the gas stations. I share that joy with the Reiten. It's very good that it's the final conclusion to this stupid proposal that the Progress Party is really burning for, and as a majority of those with whom he reigns, actually wants to be implemented in terms of industry glitter and to remedy the consequences of it. The majority of the people he's with want the alcohol to enter the gas stations. Then the Minister of Industry is very proud that the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs is now working to increase the level of organisation of the labour market. Yes, she was charged with it by the Stortinget, like the Minister of Industry, when it came to providing a large-scale report on the trade industry – a total passive government in terms of specifically entering the industries, helping the industries in transition phases and, not least, ensuring that one builds on some of the quality of Norwegian society: the Norwegian model of employment, a high level of organisation and a high level of seriousness. It doesn't matter to the government to get hold of, and I think that's a very bad thing. The councils are also several times in that he wants to evaluate industry programmes, it is very nice, but he does not say anything about it in the paper. That's what the Storting says. I'm glad he's listening to it now, because there's absolutely a need to set up good industry programmes for the commercial industry. I hope he will carry it out. Finally, in one of the minority proposals promoted by the Workers' Party and SV, we ask the government to take action with state means of conversion to meet the changes in this sector – specifically for employees in industries facing rapid and major structural changes. I think it's a pity that the majority isn't in this right now to stress that employees and industries are going to feel more secure in the time to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e969	I want to start by saying that Norwegian online commerce accounts for approx. 6 pst. VAT-free online commerce accounts for approx. 0.5 pst. This means that most of the online trade pays taxes and taxes like everyone else. The representative of Terje Aasland goes to the pulpit and says that there is no problem in implementing this from 1 August. With respect to reporting, the actors who run this, say that it's not possible, they can't put these solutions in place. Australia, which is the only country, as far as I have understood, which has managed to achieve it, has spent three years implementing it. Here you are going to drive quite violently if the Post and other actors that operate today are going to be able to do so in 2020. There's a lot of things you might want to do. I understand why it's a comment and not a suggestion, because the way I see it, and I think many people out there perceive it – including those who run the industry and who are going to be able to deliver on it – it's a little serious.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e978	It is perhaps good to remind Hoksrud that he has now entered the Storting in a nutrition debate. Since the day the government proposed to increase this limit to NOK 350, there has been considerable concern and frustration among Norwegian entrepreneurs and Norwegian workers, as there has been uncertainty. They did this in parallel with increasing the sugar charge. The 350-kroner limit plus the sugar levy became a kind of advertising effect for imports, in order to increase online trade and increase imports, for example. shower and candy from Sweden. That was the consequence. A vulnerable Norwegian job for a significant competitive disadvantage in a situation where one should actually strengthen the competitiveness of the Norwegian side and not weaken it, as the Progress Party has done. It is very regrettable to hear that approach today, with such good experience of the pain they have caused to Norwegian businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e984	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e996	Then Stortinget is ready to go to the vote on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e3634	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e3644	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e3669	A total of eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 3, from Heidi Greni on behalf of the Centre Party the proposals No 4 and 8, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 5-7, from Bears Moxnes on behalf of Red There is a vote on proposal No. 8, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to immediately put an end to any attempt to deduct the extra housing support payment for high electricity bills from economic social assistance, or other benefits, as we have already seen in a letter from Nav Sandnes dated 12 April 2019.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e3701	There is a vote on proposal No. 7 from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a revised differentiated electricity charge, at a lower rate for normal consumption and a higher rate for luxury consumption, to be set up in a way that does not impose an additional burden on those with a weak economy and poorly insulated houses and that takes into account the number of persons in the household, and then to return to the Storting in an appropriate manner.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e3718	There is a vote on proposal No. 6 from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for equal treatment of all those who needed housing support during the winter 2018/2019 and to ensure that those who did not qualify for housing support in February 2019 but who qualified for this for at least one of the other winter months receive an equivalent additional amount.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e3735	President! I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e3740	We can have that corrected – we know who you are. The result is that 51 voted against and 45 voted in favour of the proposal by Red – and that is why the proposal is not accepted. [[Laughter]] There is a vote on proposal No. 5 from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that additional payments of housing aid to cover high electricity costs are not deducted from other benefits paid to these persons from municipalities.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e3761	There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for an increase in the boute toll rate and/or other elements of the housing aid scheme for the calculation of housing aid, so that more people are included in the scheme and at least at the level of the proportion of the population receiving housing support in 2013.’» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e3779	There is a vote on proposal No. Three, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to change the bolt toll rate and, if necessary, to change other elements of the housing aid scheme for the calculation of housing aid, so that more than one person is included in the scheme.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal. The Socialist Left has announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e3805	Alternatively, between the setting and the proposals No. 1 and 2 from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: «The government is asked to establish a temporary arrangement whereby those who do not currently receive housing support may apply for high heating costs if they have low income and high housing costs.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government requests a modification of the housing aid scheme so that heating costs are included in the calculation of the housing aid paid for all beneficiary groups.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e3833	A total of 12 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, from Terje Aasland on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 4, from Terje Aasland on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 5-12, from Torgair Knag County, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6 and 7 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 6 sounds: «The government asks the government to submit proposals imposing on the franchisor shared responsibilities with the franchisor, so that the franchisor is held liable as the counterpart of the employer.» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals that also impose financial responsibility on franchisors for franchise operations.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e3869	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5 and 8-12, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to submit a legislative proposal to ensure that disputes relating to franchise and other retail activities in Norway are settled under Norwegian law and before a court in Norway.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: «The government is asked to make proposals to ensure the maximum transparency of franchise contracts and similar contracts.» Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to impose requirements on Norwegian businesses to report on climate-related risks following the framework developed by the Task Force Climate-related Financial Disclosures in the ordinary reporting of companies.’ [[TCFD]] Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to increase the right of return to 6 years, against the current two and five years in the Consumer Purchases Act.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: «The government is asked to propose legislation to increase the burden of proof for the seller from six months to two years in the Consumer Purchases Act.» Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asking for producer responsibility for more types of products and materials than at present, in order to make manufacturers responsible for ecodesign, material consumption and increased material recovery.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e3914	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for measures to be taken, including a system of state conversion funds, to meet the conversion of employees in industries facing rapid and major structural changes and to report on this work already in the revised National Budget 2019.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e3931	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-3 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a large-scale report on the food industry.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to submit proposals to prohibit the use of return commissions.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to investigate and assess measures to ensure minimum ethical standards for goods traded in Norway.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-25.ana.ud401e4012	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
