ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e28	Four permit applications are available: from representatives Åsmund Aukrust, Ove Trellevik and Marit Arnstad from 14 October to 16 October – all to participate in the Interparliamentary Union Harvest Session in Belgrade from the representative Knut Arild Hareide from 15 October to 17 October in order to take part in a workshop under the direction of the World Bank Parliamentary Network in Washington On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the period of leave as follows: For Akershus: Mani Hussaini 15–16. October For Hordaland: Sigurd Hille 15-16. ==References====External links== October For Nord-Trøndelag: Bjørn Arild Gram 14-16. October
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e83	From the Prime Minister's office there is a letter to Stortinget, dated 7 October 2019, on the temporary board of the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs. In the letter, reference is made to that kgl. Resolution of 30 August 2019, which reads: ‘In addition to its management of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, the Board of Directors of the Ministry of Children and the Family takes over Bollestad in the period of Kjell Ingolf Ropstad in the autumn of 2019, two weeks’ leave of care shall expire.’; The letter further states that the Council of State Ropstad went out on that leave from 7 October 2019 onwards. The President will propose that the letter be annexed to the Minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e108	On Monday the Stortingen received a message from the Prime Minister's office saying that Prime Minister Erna Solberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e117	100 billion is a huge number, taken from the state budget. It covers the costs of police, defence, child support and cash support. But 100 billion also describes another number, and that's what the government's putting up to spend on disability next year. That number has increased from a little over 60 billion in 2014, so it's going to pass 100 billion now. But behind this figure, people – 357,000 Norwegians – are hiding, and it is expected to increase by 25 000 to next year. Many of them are too sick to work, they need security to be able to live a decent life, but many want to work, and what many now experience is that it's hard to get in, and many feel they're being pushed out. The policy does not work to reverse this trend. It was a priority for Erna Solberg when she became prime minister, and we go in the wrong direction. Last year, the Prime Minister invited us to an inclusion meeting – more people were going to get to work. Those who had holes in the CV would have a chance. Well and well, but the distance between the beautiful words and evolution goes in the wrong direction. But ‘we’re going to start earlier, better and closer follow-up from NAV’, says the Minister of Labour. She says it in 2019 – 'now' you have to do it. A clearer indication that this has not been a sufficient priority in recent years is hard to see. The Labour Party believes that we need a broader activity reform for young people, with job guarantees, more resources and organized competence in Nav, and that we can follow up on those who are mentally struggling. It is obvious that this efforts of the government are not good enough with the developments we see. Does the Prime Minister still believe that the inclusion virtue she has raised has what is needed to help more people get into work and reverse this trend that puts so many Northmen in a difficult situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e128	I fully agree with the representative Gahr Støre that the fact that we have so many people out of work is one of our greatest and most difficult challenges in the years to come. There are many heavy developments that are also moving towards even more future developments. The pace of change in business, the need for skills in the future – all these great things that we often talk about as developments in our society – are heavy drivers. One of the reasons why the government is working hard is to go into many different measures to help qualify people to the labour market we have, to give them early help to get back when they've been outside, and to pick them up – with relief measures – from, for example. depending on social security schemes. That's why this is not the first budget we're doing anything in, as it could be heard in the statements of the questioner. We have e.g. in budgets earlier in this period, the close follow-up of mental illness through the IPS scheme increased, which helps us to support while people can be in treatment and work at the same time. That's why we've done the inclusion due, which is actually targeting one piece of work, namely to get employers involved in hiring people who have holes in the CV, who have a disability, who have been outside. Too many people feel that even though they are qualified for work, even though they have been through the AAP scheme, that they are ready for it, there are no employers and they accept it, because you have others you would rather hire. That's why it's a societal task to do these things in the future. One of the things we've done is that we now have a little less people on health-related benefits than before -- or it's about the same level. That means that even if the number of disabled people is increasing, we're able to slow down the recruitment against these schemes. There we have to do even more, and therefore there are many of the measures we are taking that have a bearing on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e135	Nav, the department that's going to do a lot of this work, experiences ABE cut and efficiency improvement. What is it going to do to reverse this development, with such a strong growth? I remember what Erna Solberg said about this in 2013–2014, when she joined as Prime Minister. Developments are going in the wrong direction, with strong growth – 25 000 new during the end of next year. Then the question is: is the virtue to which the Prime Minister invites – virtue is a fine concept, and it may work – what is needed to follow up these people, who – many of them – will work? The Prime Minister mentions something in mental health, but have we mobilized what is of professional competence to work with those who have so-called easier suffering, in order to get onto the track and get into work? My claim is that this is a far too little priority theme. It was not a theme in the Minister of Finance's speech. This is about people's lives in Norway. It's about people coming to work, and we need people to work. What we see is the shadow side of this. We have a low unemployment rate, but too many people outside the labour market who could get in. Do we keep the tools we see today, to fix this?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e144	I have never believed that the inclusion virtue is the only instrument. It almost sounds like the representative thinks so. Then he hasn't followed much of what we've done for the government in recent years. We have introduced social assistance obligations for young people under 30 years of age, with close follow-up to speed up their return to work. We have made changes to the qualification aid schemes. We are now making it possible to take a letter of formal qualifications within the qualification aid system and the Nav systems to a much greater extent than what was before, because we are going to get more back. There are two challenges. One is the challenge of health-related issues, the other is the challenges of qualification, and we have addressed both issues. But it'll take a long time. For too long, the AAP was used as a system where people stayed. Someone was to be disapproved, but was kept on the AAP even though they eventually qualified for disability. Someone should have been taken care of a lot earlier. We're doing both of these. But I accept all the good suggestions, because I think this is a common task for the entire Norwegian community.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e151	There will be follow-up questions – first Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e156	That is a positive signal; we must make those proposals. In the case of AAP, work clearance, many have experienced that they have not been clarified. They lose support in the middle of the period, they fall down, get disabled or come for social assistance. The last thing that comes now is the proposal that AAP recipients under the age of 25 should lose one third of their income. It follows the logic we've seen before: those who have little are going to do a job by getting even less, while those who have a lot are going to contribute by getting more. That's a principle the right-hand side uses, and we see it here. I can't stand this criticism from the opposition, says Siv Jensen when she is confronted with this, but she has to endure it, because this isn't about the opposition, it's about people who are being hit and who become vulnerable. It's too short for those who are cleared for disease, to those who end up on disability. They're being too badly followed up. The capacity is too poor to give them the clarification they need. Does the Prime Minister not see that the way back to work is longer from disability than from job redundancy? Shouldn't the effort be greater there to prevent the numbers from continuing to grow as they do?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e167	The purpose of the changes we make in the AAP for young people is just to make sure that it becomes a closer follow-up. We spend the same amount of money on closer follow-up as what we reduce income by being on the AAP. At the same time, we do it equally to what kind of social benefits you are in – whether you are on the AAP, whether you are on qualifying aid, or whether you are on introduction aid – so that not one should appear to be more attractive, but that they are all the same for them under the age of 25. It's because very many of these are without knowledge and competence and should really be on a qualification support to get the knowledge and skills they need to get into the world of work. That's why it's just the actions we're doing, and that the Workers' Party is protesting against, that help prevent people from being recruited to stay outside. We have launched measures to ensure that those in social assistance are followed up. We're doing this systematically for young people entering the AAP and other arrangements. We're just doing these steps. But to think it's short-sighted and easy – it's not. This requires work over many years.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e174	Jonas Gahr Støre – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e179	It is obvious, but this follows a different logic from this government, and it is that those who are paying for measures for those who are struggling are the ones who are struggling. When it comes to getting cheaper with kindergarten for the poorest, it is the other kindergarten parents who have to pay for it – it’s not the crevice layer as a whole. And now it's under 25 years of age on redundancy pay to get them back. It's unsocial, what's coming. In addition, in this State budget – it is important to take it up here too – there is a series of cuts that I would call unsocial and petty, in redundancy payments, housing for vulnerable groups, car welfare schemes – we have seen that in the past – and free legal aid. Next year's budget includes new groups: young people with disabilities, children who need dental regulation and children who need glasses. This is unfair. The Prime Minister told me in Political Quarter yesterday that most people can afford to buy glasses for their children. It's an illustration of what people are saying. These people are really candidates to end up outside the labour market if they don't get the help the community can give them, to learn, to be accepted, to be part of the social, to avoid easier social suffering. Why does the government do these petty cuts that have no effect on giving people better lives?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e191	All of these cuts had deserved to be discussed separately, for example. the question of glasses. In ten years we have had more than a double of this item, linked to one special diagnosis. Then we said we have to keep going a little bit. We have to make sure that we have a standardised rate. Everyone should get glasses, everyone should get good glasses adapted to their vision, and that helps them with their disease, but we need to have a standardized rate. So there's been more than a doubling of this item in the last ten years, and then there's a basis for going in and looking at it. As far as dental regulation is concerned, the government's position is that we should not contribute to the body pressure that is in this society by pushing on that everyone should have exactly the same pretty teeth, and that the public should pay for dental regulation. It's interesting to look at the social distribution of who gets dental regulation. There are actually children of people with high incomes and high education who take the most out of this pot, if you look at the social distribution of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e198	Jonas Gahr Støre – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e203	My introduction to this question is that we have a development in our very serious society. What the Prime Minister described as one of the main challenges for Norway in 2013 has only continued to increase. Now we have to deal with this, with closer follow-up from Nav, says the Minister of Labour. It's too late. I hear the Prime Minister invites us to cooperate on solutions. That's a good invitation. We have a number of suggestions. There has to be more resources for those who are targeted to help those who are outside. More resources need to be made available to the competent authorities. The challenge of mental health needs to be addressed, what is called ‘lighter mental illness’. It's about the whole spectrum of early work, from kindergarten to school to follow-up. I fear that this with the inclusion virtue and measures the government now has, is too weak and too little targeted. The figures and forecasts in this budget indicate this. We're on the wrong track. The serious thing about it is that we don't pass 100 billion. Norway can pay for this — but it is that an increasing number of people are facing a difficult situation. So here we need a stronger lye -- a more firm and powerful policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e212	I am very pleased that the Workers' Party now sees that this is one of the major challenges. We didn't experience that before, now I'm glad we've agreed on it. We've been working systematically on this since we joined the government, among other things. with early effort. That's why 1.3 billion is used. kr more in Norwegian municipalities – transferred from the state to Norwegian municipalities – to work with early efforts in mental health, health care and psychologists in all municipalities. From next year, there is a requirement that there should be psychological capacity in all municipalities. It is to help with these lowthreshold services to prevent things. It's very dangerous to think that the inclusion virtue solves all of these challenges. There are many other measures that come in addition, but inclusion is targeted at one thing: the interaction with employers and Nav, to ensure that we get jobs that make people who can't work 100 pst. effectively, and which may have a disease and require treatment, yet still have a place in the labour market. That is what inclusion is all about, and that is what we see many employers now agree to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e219	Per Olaf Lundtigen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e224	The government will reduce the minimum performance of redundancy benefits by DKK 70000 for young people under 25 who enter the scheme. In addition, the government will liquidate the new disability supplement of NOK 44 000 for all new recipients of redundancy benefits. The government has calculated the full-year effect from 2023 to 885 million. kr. The government is hard on the weak. The centre part is solid and warm and clearly opposite the tightening. The government fig leaf to defend this brutal cut is ‘better and closer follow-up’. I've heard this for all the six years I've been in the Labour and Social Committee, but every day I'm told that Nav works badly for the people who need the most community, and these kids are among them. There are too few professionals, too short opening hours and too little responsibility and authority for those who are going to realize the point with Nav, namely a door in. When will the Prime Minister strengthen the local Nav offices so that the professionals who are given the power to decide on applications for temporary benefits do not send the case to decision in specialised departments, which have never – never – talked to the youth?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e233	The government has systematically moved more of the decisions closer to the users of the Nav since we entered the government offices. These include: This is why we have a close follow-up to people with mental challenges — getting a supervisor to help organise their working life. That's why we have significantly increased this arrangement over these years. That's why we work more with working life outside and follow up on those who are out on work training. It's just the kind of thing that was in the changes we made in Nav, because we felt that under the red-green government what was set up was a reform for more decision in the first line, for more decision in the offices and less power out there, more a service office outside instead of follow-up and help. I'm absolutely sure we can go even more steps with this, but our long-term goal is that all those who have complex challenges, who need close follow-up, should have people to help them with the tight follow-up in Nav, and that's the steps we've been taking since we got to the government offices.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e238	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e243	The government's willingness to centralize is great. This government has promoted one centralisation reform after another, with planning and clear systems: the police reform, the municipal reform, the university and university reform, the Nav offices and tax offices. It has created great reactions and great resistance, but the foremost feature of this government is not to listen to the districts in particular. There is a doubt that everything is good, even when from North Norway the vulnerability of the air ambulance is pointed out after Babcock took over, and in the state budget typical district schemes are picked away. The removal of the lead grant to the coastal fleet and the reduction of appropriations for other fisheries and coastal measures are clear examples of this. New studies on centralisation are presented on current bands. In the last two weeks, two government-appointed selections have submitted proposals, and the Minister of Local Government announces that the municipal reform will continue during the current period. It is proposed in one of the investigations that the proportion of local communities in the value creation of hydropower should be incorporated into the state fund. The proposal clearly violates the social contract that has existed between local communities and large communities in terms of hydropower development. In addition, when they presented the investigation, the sample was able to reconcile the power municipalities and the power industry in opposition to the same proposal. It was the base rates that the power industry would have changed to increase the value creation, not the concession power and the concession fee. So industry and community say the same thing: they don't want this. Will the government listen to an overall force Norway and iron out the proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e252	There were many individual claims in that post that it might have been interesting to record, because I believe they give a wrong picture. This government contributes to good framework conditions for the growth of small and medium-sized enterprises. We see economic development in District Norway that creates safer jobs. We see that the total is that there is low unemployment, that there is a shortage of labour, and that there is actually a balanced growth in Norwegian society at the moment. But since the question was about power plant taxation, I can repeat the answers I gave to the representative in the throne debate last week. The government did not reduce this selection in order for us to make changes in the taxation between the municipalities and what the state receives. The reason why this sample was reduced was that we wanted to look at what was being developed – also in many discussions in Stortinget and elsewhere – about the fact that there were too poor incentives to make updates and take out the power use of the hydropower plants we already have. That's what it was for. So it's not safe for the state to go in and say that you have to give this answer. Then we wouldn't have asked for a NOU, then we wouldn't have said that there's an expert committee that would do that. I do not think the experts would have accepted that they should have a mandate in which the preliminary conclusions had been drawn. Now this needs to be heard, and we need to discuss, and then we need to draw conclusions and make the political recommendations. But I can yell as much as I mean exactly what I meant in 1996, when I sat here and worked on the power plant tax. I know that LVK, the Landssaman conclusion of Vasskraftkommunar, has a plan with pictures of me from a conference where I say that the hydropower is also an important local resource, and that the tax will also benefit the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e261	Another centralisation reform presented in the State budget was the governmentisation of the tax collection. Quote: You're not concerned about having the comedian close to you, are you? And: We're going to replace small and poor trades unions with a bigger environment. This is how the government talks down workers and tries to defend it that they intend to centralize jobs by governmenting tax collection. The finance minister says that everyone should be offered a job, but the proposition actually says that 429 annual works should be removed. It is said that it is not a savings reform, but the government has planned to save 370 million. kr. And the map that the finance minister showed about places in Norway shows that Namsos gets 2 jobs, Trondheim gets 43, Voss gets 2, Bergen gets 87. It was this government that was going to move tasks out to the municipalities, but instead they are now choosing to collect tasks from the state. Why does this government have such great confidence in the state and in the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e269	When quoting parts of a discussion, you might want to quote the claim that was before my answer that I don't think people are concerned about having the chemist close. It was the party leader in the Center Party's claim that this was taking close services from the voters. I think the few people want to have so much to do with the champ, except to pay their taxes. What is the starting point for this is that we need to have good collection arrangements. We have a job against black work – this government has worked a lot against labour crime and established a-crime centres around the country. Being able to collect taxes and taxes is an important element of it — having better skills around it. For this reason, we have proposed that this should go hand in hand with the Tax Directorate – working with the other tax offices to provide good services.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e276	There will be follow-up questions – first Marit Arnstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e281	A third investigation is from the Court of Justice, which proposes that two thirds of the cases should be closed down and centralised. By way of derogation, centralisation shall take place to the largest cities, and it affects hundreds of jobs throughout the country. After a line change in the debate on the throne, the Prime Minister said she thought the Commission had probably gone too far. It probably means that she believes that centralisation is necessary, but that one must not go too far. There is an open question about what is then appropriate centralisation for the government in this area. So the structure part of the Court Commission is just a piece of that work. It's also here that investigations deal with digitisation, quality and tasks. The question is why in the world the government demanded an acceleration of the precise structure of the Court Commission when it is the other parts of the Court Commission's work that should provide the basis for a debate on organisation. Why does the government not want to wait and see things in context, so that you can see tasks and content and discuss organisation in the context of it?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e290	A great many of the issues that the Court Commission is going to deal with have very little bearing on the structure itself. That's what the Court of Justice itself says. These are internal forms of work; they are less concerned with things that have a bearing on the structure itself. Therefore, it has been natural to have two different investigations. We're not done with our work. This should be heard, we will look at different options related to this, and as I said, this is a proposal from an expert committee, which is concerned about how to ensure that we have good legal certainty, good quality, and can ensure that this works well. They point out that it is a challenge that where there is only a judge, there is no way of dealing with cases with more than six years of potential prison sentence – that is, a criminal framework. That means you have to move them anyway, and there might be other ways to organize it. I think they deserve us to seriously go in and discuss these parameters that they've laid down. Then I think they've gone too far. It just means that we're going to work well and thoroughly on it and listen to all the hearing opinions related to what comes later.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e299	Geir Pollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e304	In Norway, we have used the fisheries policy to make use of the whole country. It has been a goal to secure construction and value creation along the whole coast. The government is driving a targeted reduction in this policy. The guide provides support for maintaining fish reception stations along the coast and is important for the smallest part of the fishing fleet. The government has previously tried to cut the scheme, but has been stopped in Storting. With multi-segment, the system will be removed. Fishermen's welfare stations have been an important offer. The government has previously tried to cut the scheme, but has been stopped in Storting. With multi-segment, the system will be removed. The government will raise 34 million. kr for fishing ports, of which it appears that North Norway will receive NOK 0. My question is: why is it so important for the government to build up this part of industrial policy instead of investing on the coast and bet on North Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e317	The government is betting on North Norway. It's going well in the Norwegian seafood industry. One of the most important things we do is to provide market shares. What the Central Party often forgets is that access to the market for fish is crucial for jobs along the coast. If we don't have provisions on our fish, and if we don't have trade agreements with other countries, there won't be any profitability or development, as we see for the seafood industry. So we produce a lot more fish than we eat ourselves. Therefore, it is so important that we have an active effort to ensure market access. That's why it's also important that we work with the whole quota allocation system, etc. – there is an allowance notification in Stortinget – to ensure that we have sustainable profitability and robustness for the industry in the future. So we're working on doing it economically in all of these terms. I believe that, in sum, we have a policy that is better for Norwegian fishing than the isolation policy of the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e326	Kjersti Top – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e331	In the debate on the throne last Friday, the Prime Minister asserted that it is better prepared in the air ambulance service now than it has been in the past. This answer has provoked health workers in the north, who are not familiar with this sunny reality description. When the prime minister stood in Stortinget and claimed this, three aircraft ambulances in Finnmark were standing on the ground because of a lack of crew. Both the Finnmark medical unit and the county doctor in Finnmark have reacted and are concerned about instability and weight preparedness. No, we're in October. It's been three months since the operator change. Many are unsure whether the government understands the seriousness and does what is needed to secure the population in the north a full air ambulance supply through the winter. My question is whether the Prime Minister will repeat that today's preparedness is better than before in the air ambulance service, and how long the government intends to see that aircraft are still being decommissioned, and that health professionals are unable to provide the air ambulance service required by the people of North Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e340	The ambulance flight offer that is now established is a qualitatively much better offer than the one we have had in the past. It's solid. The offer we had on offer was better on capacity and quality than it was before. It also costs approx. One hundred million. kr more than that did before we replaced the operator, because there are quality improvements in the offer. These include: because all ambulance aeroplanes have been replaced. It's new and more modern ambulance planes, and it's complemented by a jet plane. At the entry stage, there have been challenges for Babcock, while at the same time there has been a good follow-up by providing additional availability of other resources. It now appears that the challenges that Babcock has faced — and some of the technical problems — have been solved and will therefore be more regulated in the future. But it is clear that we are closely following developments and that they are delivering on the tender they have. But the offer and what it is made there is a better offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e349	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e355	This round shows, in particular, that the government has a tendency to minimize the centralisation reforms it proposes. They may find it a bit annoying that the Center Party is standing here and taking up these reforms, and that we are now bothering the government again. But we remember that this government initially called police reform a near-police reform, a word that is no longer used, and it can be understood by how that reform has evolved. This government knows very well what they're doing when they start these kinds of processes. They know very well what they do when they pick out structure as one piece from the Court Commission and treat it before the discussion of tasks and content. I think maybe the distance to the big shot has something to say for that very thing. It is also comparable with municipalities and counties and new structures, which were treated first, but almost no tasks – they came later. My specific question to the Prime Minister is: why was it necessary to speed up the structural part of the Court of Justice Commission? Why doesn't one now have a golden opportunity to see the whole Commission in context?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e364	I answered that question earlier, that the Court of Justice itself believes that the second part of the work has no direct influence on the structure itself, and that they believe this is the right thing to do. So I would say that I'm not the least annoyed that the Center Party is taking up these things, I just think it's fascinating that they think the world can stand still. When the world changes, we also have to change things. When the skills requirements become higher, when there is a new competence that allows us to deal with more people, we also need to ensure that that competence comes to patients. When the crime scene changes, we have to make sure to do something about the crime that actually happens. I am proud, I, of the results of police reform in the area of violence and child abuse. I've said it many times from this pulpit, and I'm still going to say it: I think we are now knocking on many of the perpetrators who have gone free before. It is important for children in this society. These are changes that we're making because we're doing a power collection in some areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e375	Eirik Sivertsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e380	Part of the State budget, as also mentioned earlier, is about tax offices and their centralisation in new 56 units. It looks like a reform you had in Denmark, where you did the same thing. It was found that recovery efficiency decreased, and there is a significant risk associated with it. The government calculates to save 370 million. NOK nearly 2 per million of the employers' fee levied for the following year, which is more than 200 billion. kr. How sure the Prime Minister is that it is actually a good economy when you remove the local knowledge and the efficiency of collection that has been in the tax offices, which is reported to be 99.8 pst.? Is the Prime Minister sure this is worth the effort?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e387	I am a little surprised that the Workers' Party, which often talks about the challenges of crime and illegalities in the labour market, does not see that taxes are an important part of this. Being power-collected on it is also an important piece. Then I think that with 56 places around the country, well distributed, you also get a lot of local knowledge about what's going on. As I have said before, when adding jobs to Leira, Tynset and Otta, I might not say that it is precisely centralization; it is a good distribution of skills jobs, with good knowledge of the areas, which are larger. It's true that we're going to save 370 million. kr on this. Let's do that, for example. by taking out the natural take-off that's going on in some other areas, but everyone's going to get an offer of a job. We're assuming that the gain is going to be significantly greater, and that's the calculations we've derived from this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e396	Eirik Sivertsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e401	I record that the Prime Minister has no need to go into what was at the heart of the question, namely the risk of this conversion and what considerations have been made there. I also noticed that the Prime Minister earlier said here that they were betting in North Norway. I bet you do. Now I represent the county of Nordland, and we just find that one has now chosen to take up an education on Nesna, for major protests. The Sandessee Hospital has been played out through an investigation of a structure in which there is considerable uncertainty about both the offer and the number of jobs that disappear. The Mo-Rana Licensing Office should be reduced. You have cut off the offer of the government's purchase of air routes. And not least we had last year's daily messages after the weather: do the ambulance planes go today, or don't they? I notice that the Minister of Health has now seen the need to have daily updates on it this year. Does the Prime Minister not see the value of people living all over the country when a policy is pursued that systematically supports the centralisation and urbanisation that is otherwise seen?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e410	I see very well that there is a need for people to live around the country and that they should have good services. That's one of the reasons why we, for example, increases the number of recruitment positions in hospitals in North Norway by 22 pst. We put all the new recruitment positions there to ensure that there are good health services. So we're moving over and doing a lot more than what's on that list. But let me just say a few words about Lake Sandes, because I think it's amazing that the Workers' Party uses it as an example. All the municipalities in Helgeland have agreed that there should be one hospital up there. The health company – the regional health company – has announced that two are also to be investigated, as a parallel investigation to this, because it is not certain. But everyone has agreed on one, and there's a discussion about whether it's going to be in Mo in Rana or Sandesjön if it becomes one, maybe it's going to be both places with another type of capacity. I have not heard that the local representatives of the Workers' Party have been opposed during this time. That it is a struggle for the Sandessee to win over Mo in Rana, I have great respect for, but when you bring this up here, I have to ask the question: Does this representative mean that we are going to have hospitals in Lake Sandes or in Mo in Rana? What is the Workers' Party's answer to that?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e417	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e422	I must say, it is sad to hear the Prime Minister fall into pure demagoguery. No one's seafaringly still. This is about political direction and we can disagree on political directions. It's about social struggle and the fight for interest. For the Central Party, there is no modernisation if people in Finnmark are not to have an emergency response offer as well as the rest of the country. It's not modernisation if the police can no longer move out to people in the districts. It is not modernisation if you leave study places for both nurses and teachers in Helgeland when you need nurses and teachers at the same time. We disagree with that. Is there any limit to centralisation for the Prime Minister? Has the Prime Minister and the government ever reflected on the overall impact of all the centralisation reforms that this government has launched? Has she ever reflected on the overall impact of small and large places around Norway when one has chosen as much and as planned centralisation as this government has done?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e429	It's possible that the adjectives are loose with the representative, but I think we should have a factual discussion about how we provide good services everywhere for the future challenges we have. I don't think the Center Party will take that when they say they're in favour of every thing. Of course, I can be ironic and say that they were against the closure of the post offices, even though the postal services became better for people most afterward, or I could come up with funny things that they were against the introduction of color television – and all these things. But I think this is quite serious, because if we are to have good services, we must actually also ensure that we can recruit for those services and ensure that everyone gets equivalent services around the country. This means that knowledge, competence and breadth are important to many of these services. I have recorded that the interaction reform was the only reform that the representative of Battle Violence Vedum could come to realize that he had been in the process of reform in recent years. So it's the reform that many of the decision-makers now point out that the fixed crisis has its origin.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e439	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e444	When Erna Solberg became Prime Minister in Norway, she presented what was then advertised as the government’s eight main projects for Norway, and the climate was not one of them. We and others protested that violently at that time. Today, I think it is quite unpleasant for the Prime Minister to be reminded of it, because we are at a time when the climate exposure is so strong, where the youth is making climate uprisings, and where the climate scientists clearly show that those who did not take this seriously in the past were wrong. Why do I remember it now? Well, because this week we were going to have the state budget that came with emission figures that showed that we were prepared to achieve Norway's climate target for 2020. Instead, we got a government budget that shows that we're not responsible for it. The emissions figures currently used by the government for 2020 show that we are missing a cut of between 3 and 5 million. tonnes of CO 2 equivalent to complying with the 2012 Storting climate settlement. It's a big gap. There are emissions corresponding to annual emissions from between 1 and 2 million private cars, or four to five Melkøya installations. So while the debate – pleasantly enough for the government, perhaps – has moved more and more towards the 2030 targets, Erna Solberg is responsible for not achieving the 2020 targets. It's in the budget papers. Hidden in a text box on page 23, it says: ‘If developers are released in line with the last forwarding, we are assumed that emissions are higher than the ambition.’ Over the last few years, it has been very difficult for the Prime Minister to admit that she is responsible for a policy that is likely to break with the climate agreement she herself signed. Will she now admit that she has failed?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e461	When we negotiated the climate agreement, we had some clear and clear assumptions about how we could achieve those goals. At the time, we took into account the fact that we were to build it on a mix of domestic emission cuts, the purchase of allowances from projects in developing countries and the contribution of Norwegian enterprises through participation in the EU ETS. In fact, some reservations were also made about the development of technology and the cost of climate action. When the red-green government presented its perspective statement in the spring of 2013, they estimated that emissions with the policy, that is, the same type of projections that are now in the state budget, would reach 54 million in 2020. tonnes. They're now down to 51 million. tonnes. I am not satisfied that we should have come any further, but we have therefore achieved a significant reduction in relation to what was the perspective of the policy of the red-green government, because we have introduced more measures. But we carry out our obligations. We do it with the tools that we agreed on in the climate agreement, and I wish we had come even further. But there is nothing to suggest that the red-green policy helped us to do this, on the contrary, it is the policy measures that have been implemented since then, which are helping us to reach 51 million. tonnes instead of the 54. We do not yet know the phase, because the accounts for 2020 will not be settled until 2022. Then we have the certainty of how far we got, and how much deviation it becomes from our own ambition to take two thirds of the cuts at home. As I said, we're maintaining and implementing our commitments, and we're implementing the cuts overall, but we're doing a little bit more out than we wanted in the climate deal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e470	After all, we got, in a slightly swirled way, perhaps, the grant at the end. I think the defence of the Prime Minister is poor, because it is clear that if all the measures to achieve the 2020 targets had been in place in 2012–2013, we would not have needed a climate settlement. It is in the years that Erna Solberg has managed that the measures should have been put in place. But they didn't fit in, and that's 100 pst. Erna Solberg's responsibility as Prime Minister during that period. Let's look at how the government reports on this along the way. Because I wonder when that confession actually sank with the Prime Minister. At the latest in the revised national budget earlier this year, we could read: ‘Climate policy is working’. But in the state budget, which was presented on Monday, five months later, the government writes that the ambition will not be achieved. How can climate policy work in May, and then stop working in October? Did the Prime Minister in the summer realize that the objectives were not being achieved?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e484	The representative is now trying to draw different parts and different issues that are not related. But climate policy works. It works because the government also introduces measures that were not part of the climate agreement. Then it is important to remember that the climate agreement was from 2008, not from 2012 – in 2012 it was a continuation of the climate agreement. It was in 2008 that we made the ambitions, and after five years of red-green policy on the climate deal, the estimate was 54 million. tonnes in 2020. Now it's 51 million. And we get the fasitite in 2022. Let me just give you some examples of how this works. If we, for example, Looking at the 2015 national budget, we estimated that in 2030 we would be at 51,5 million. tonnes if nothing else was done. Now, for 2020, we're down to 45 million. tonnes. It shows that we've got a reduction. There's a slight change in the calculation of methane gas here, but it shows that the decrease is coming. Every year, we have reported lower emissions because the policy is working, but we need more action – and that is what we are doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e493	There will be follow-up questions – first the Audun Light Bin.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e498	Erna Solberg and I both agreed to negotiate the climate agreement in 2012. I expect that none of us would put our name under it, if we didn't think it was possible to achieve the targets by 2020. After six years, on the way into his seventh year in the Prime Minister's chair, the Prime Minister cannot blame anyone but himself. From the state budget for 2018 it ended to refer to the target as a goal, when it became an ambition. What we can learn from it is that when this government has an ambition, then we're going to be careful, because then you have no real goal of doing what you've promised. I still wonder when the government realized that it was not going to achieve the climate targets for 2020, and why the government has not told the Storting clearly before that it is not possible to achieve the targets.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e507	Every year we've reported how we're at a distance, and so we've reduced the distance to the measures. We're reaching what's our obligations, but we're not reaching it with exactly the same domestic ambition that we had in terms of how much we take home, in relation to how much we take out. So it's interesting to look at the evolution of the decline in recent years. If we start with 2013, 52.2 million. tonnes in 2030. We're down to 45, and that's before we take all the measures that are in this year's state budget, what's in the Granavolden declaration to increase the CO 2 tax by 5 pst. Every year until 2025, the measures we have agreed with agriculture to implement to reduce agricultural emissions over this decade, the measures we put in place to integrate biodiesel from next year, from 12 to 20 p.m., and the measures we contribute to ensure that we also get a domestic marine fleet with less emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e515	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e520	The Prime Minister will not answer the question of when the government recognised that one will not achieve the objectives. I think that's interesting, because it's not until now that we get that admission from the Prime Minister, even though we've been asking for years. We have looked at old budgets, and the 2016 budget, for example, says that Norway's reporting to the UN estimates that by 2020 the emissions will be cut in line with the agreement. The following year, the government even writes that it is pursuing such an offensive climate policy that the climate agreement has been reinforced in a number of areas – very well, because then one would believe that one would overfulfill what is in the climate agreement. It's very difficult to understand how a government that's been running for six years with an enhanced climate settlement can bomb so strongly on the target. When did Erna Solberg realize that her strengthening was really a weakening of Norwegian climate policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e525	The fact that we have reported internationally that we are complying with the Kyoto agreement is absolutely correct. So let's do that, and we'll do that. We implement the commitments we have in the Kyoto agreement, there is no doubt about it. It could also be a probability that we're almost in overfulfilling it. But when it comes to the issue of a reinforced climate policy, one of the things we did, and we now see the results of, even though all of these major technology approaches take time, the representative Lysbakken as the Council of State or negotiating partner would not admit the opposition at the time, namely a clearly committed escalation of the climate fund, Enova, in the conciliation. But we did. We have done that, and now we have money for our own CO2 fund for heavy traffic, which allows us to work with that part of the transport industry. This means that there is money for sea wind efforts and money to ensure that the enterprise after business is now reduced in emissions through the use of new technology. That money came on the table because this government did what the red-green government would not admit to us in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e533	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e538	The Prime Minister is good at figures and facts, and therefore she comes short when she is now trying to argue against facts. She has submitted a budget saying that she does not reach the targets, and is trying to explain it by saying that this has been a reinforced and fantastic climate policy. But she failed. It's a climate failure. One of the things the opposition has asked for throughout the period of the Prime Minister's rule has been a new climate settlement to see if we could jointly strengthen the measures that we agreed on last, and give the government back coverage to implement more. But the Prime Minister has been totally unwilling to do so. I wonder: When the Prime Minister finally admits – very late, quite rightly – that she does not reach the 2020 targets, that she has failed to do so, does she intend to come to Stortinget and ask for a postponement, so that she can get a new chance?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e545	I'm not going to ask for a postponement. We have concluded an agreement with the EU on our climate commitments for 2030. It's not just an agreement for 2030, but for 2021, 2022, 2023, 2024, 2025, 2026, 2027, 2028, 2029 and 2030, because we're going to reach an runway. We have runways that we agree on in an international agreement that we will reach every year in the future. Therefore, the government is working hard to get those results. I want to remind the representative of what is in the climate agreement. It states that – in 2012 – the development of technology, the costs of climate action, population growth, economic growth and the development of emissions in the petroleum sector will have an impact on the achievement of ambition. Even then, it was actually a question of whether we were able to achieve all the domestic goals. But we get to our foreigners. We've lowered emissions compared to what was the red-green perspective message. Even if we wanted to do even more, I'm glad that this government has an ambitious policy to do just that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e552	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e557	The Prime Minister may try to blame the opposition or technology development or anything, but I think most people agree that the one who ultimately remains with the more solar responsibility for breaking the targets is the Prime Minister himself. A clearer commitment to achieving the 2020 targets could be useful, if they are to be achieved in, for example: 2021. Maybe we could agree on that? Because it is difficult to feel confident that a Prime Minister who has broken one agreement will meet the objectives of the next few years. The fundamental question is, why should a prime minister who has failed so completely to achieve the 2020 targets ask and expect to be trusted to be the one who can achieve the 2030 targets? It doesn't seem very likely.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e564	The probability lies in what we've actually gotten into during these years we've been in government. So we have gone from the prognosis of approx. 52.2 in emissions ton in 2030 to 45 now – before the measures coming from Granavolden, which are in this state budget, and the measures we are going to implement every year in the future. So every year we have reported on the long-term emission forecast – what has happened historically – the figures have decreased. We're in the right direction; we're on the right path. Then perhaps the representative Lightbakken should think through whether he has come up with measures during this period that would give short-term effects of the volume to be achieved in order to achieve the 2020 targets. Actually, I don't think that's what happened. We have gone through quite a few of the different proposals of parties. The only thing that had to be done was not to produce oil in Norway. That, I think, is a poor investment in view of our future well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e571	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e576	I'm glad the Prime Minister asked that, because SV has provided the necessary measures. We even said in 2017 that an absolute requirement for us to join the government was that a plan should be put in place to achieve these objectives. It's sad that no one in the government that actually got power made similar demands. Then maybe we could be somewhere else today. I believe that this is how the power of action determines. And the Prime Minister is going to feel that she has shown that she has very great power of action. She has the power to act when it's a life crisis in her own government. Then there's two months of crisis meetings, there's billions on the table, there's the ultimatum of the government partners -- it wasn't how this prime minister dealt with that crisis. It's just that when young people stand outside here and demand action against the climate crisis, they don't see the same action. You see, on the contrary, a government that is paralysed. In conclusion, I would like to give the Prime Minister something for which the figures indicate that there is reason: is there anything in climate policy in the years she has been running, for which she wants to take self-criticism?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e585	I can't think of anything right now. I'll think about that question. In some areas, I would have wanted us to get even faster on a part of the conversion we have in the maritime sector, but it has been necessary to spend time, and we are going much faster than most other countries. Is there any sign that we're going to get to the goal? Yes, because we report that every year. Every year we've reported, the projections show that we're getting closer to the 2030 target. We have an agreement that obliges us to do so, and we have many new measures. New urban buses shall be a zero-emission vehicle or use biogas by 2025. By 2030 new heavy goods vehicles, 75 pst. of new long-distance buses and 50 pst. of new trucks being zero-emission vehicles, and we've created our own fund within Enova to get these solutions on the truck side. These are incredibly important measures, and I think we are on the right track. So it takes a little longer, for example. because buying a new car takes some time for a normal family.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e592	Åsmund Aukrust – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e597	This was an incredible sequence to listen to – the world is facing the greatest threat we can have, with the climate crisis, and then the Prime Minister stands and says that after six years with her as Prime Minister, there is no matter for which she wants to take self-criticism. I hope other heads of state have a little greater humility in the face of this great crisis we are facing. Erna Solberg has not only signed the climate agreement, she has promised to strengthen it. Today we know the fasit. There won't be any reinforcement. We don't even want to be close to that. That's not really funny. Every time someone says the word "climate" in the government, civil war. The Prime Minister used the election campaign to shoot down any initiative from the Minister for Climate Change. When the Minister of Economic Affairs was in the Questionnaire in Stortinget, he said that he did not know what Norway's climate goal was, and he even performed to say that it was not his responsibility to reach them. During the spring session, a single climate proposal from the climate minister was not submitted. Can the Prime Minister say whether any national climate policy from the government will be presented during the autumn?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e607	We are in the process of implementing climate policy. There are many proposals in this State budget, which is the most important instrument in the future. So we are now working on a climate cure, which is going to give us new calculations in different areas to find out which measures can be implemented with the lowest cost of action. It's not like you haven't reinforced the climate agreement. The climate agreement said that the electric car benefits would end when we had 50,000 electric cars, or in 2017. We have 250,000 cars. We still need the electric car benefits – until 2021. That means we're getting things that you didn't agree to have in the climate agreement. We have doubled the appropriations for Enova, a question that was very crucial to us, but which we did not get through when the Workers' Party was going to negotiate the climate agreement with us. But we said we were going to implement it, and we implemented it in government, which means that we have the money available for all the technology developments that are. So we've reinforced the measures in the climate deal in a number of areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e614	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e619	Solberg uses the majority government to zero out the majority will on the Storting. Following the Red's proposal, as is well known, the majority decided that the government would work for the trade unions to have more members. Since this decision in January 2018 we have been waiting for concrete measures, but very little has happened. So now, in the state budget, the government is going to go in to cancel the decision to get more people organized in our working life. The Ministry answers — in reply to criticism — that this is only a so-called technical twist, and that a work is now being carried out in a labour-retirement policy selection with the social partners. But what the government was supposed to deliver was measures for the Storting, not just to keep on in a sample. As LO leader Gabrielsen says: ‘If the government actually intends to put forward concrete measures to improve the level of organisation, it is very alarming that the government repeals a decision on the same issue. A working group is well and good, but not actually concrete measures to strengthen the level of organisation.» I want an answer as to why the government is now repealing the decision rather than promoting a case to the Stortinget with concrete measures. And can we hear what measures the government will take to ensure that more people actually join trade unions in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e629	Firstly, the reason why we are promoting a proposal to repeal the decision is, of course, the leadership of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee that we should clarify these kinds of issues. Instead of letting them lie over the years, we'd rather come up with that kind of proposal. What we have done, as a working method, as also reported in the State budget, is that under the Labour and Pension Policy Council, we have created a working group that will present a final report in the autumn of 2020. But because we are unable to follow up within the time frame that would otherwise be, we have formally proposed to repeal the decision of Stortinget. I felt that I was in line with the leaders who have been given about how Stortinget wanted us to handle this, instead of leaving things behind year after year. For us, a well-organized working life is important. Tripartite cooperation is a basic plan in how we have chosen to organise our working life. I think we get a lot of good out of this. That is why we are working on strengthening the level of organisation of work on both sides. The fact that there is a major crisis, and that the left-hand side now shouts warnings, is quite clearly in contrast to both the numbers and – not least – what the LO boss said last year. A little over a year ago, the head of the lo said there was no drama in the numbers. Gabrielsen said to NRK on February 5th last year: «Back in the 1970s, there was 51.5% organized, today we are 49.1. There is no dramatic and great decline we are talking about." What we know at the same time is that the degree of organization on the other hand, in the business world, has increased in this period. So it's not a crisis in the degree of organisation in Norway. We work with the parties on action. So it's interesting, when the tax deduction is often drawn out, there was no visible increase in the level of organisation in the period when the red-green government increased the tax deduction.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e643	The size has never asked for any explanation or training, which is what the government here comes with. I also want to ask Solberg to consider taking a talk with those who work in particular. the construction industry, the car wash, care and care, hotels and restaurants, and those who serve us at the outdoors, and ask whether they experience a crisis or not in terms of the number of trade unions involved. We have made a number of suggestions on Stortinget that would have allowed more people to join trade unions. There are proposals to stop loopholes in bankruptcy legislation, to prevent union breakup. It is suggested that at the top of companies such as Rema 1000 they should take responsibility for employers for their employees so that they can negotiate with the real owner of the chain, both on pay and working hours, and also have real participation. All of this has been voted against by the government in Stortinget. Why does the government oppose the measures that we know can strengthen the trade union movement and make the employer accountable to their employees, and which we proposed on the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e654	The Government is committed to the transparency and clarity of the right to organise itself. We're going to be busy following up on that. But that doesn't mean we agree with Red in their assessment of the world and what obligations you have for different people or different organisations. You're free to organize, and we think it's important to fence around. We are working on the follow-up to this matter together with the parties to the council we have for cooperation with them. Then we think it's natural that we wait until we're done with the work to see which areas it will be most important to address, and whether there are areas that the parties believe we need to strengthen to ensure the freedom to organize for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e661	There will be follow-up questions – first the Bears of the Moxnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e666	Repeal of decisions is not a follow-up. That's cancelling decisions, and that's what the government is doing now. They keep saying that regular employment is the main rule in Norway, but then they undermine this by opening up more temporary employment opportunities at the same time. There is something that we also see in the budget, where they are proposing to tighten the period of permitment in the fishing industry, which they justify is that there has become more rent and a general improvement in the labour market. LO says that this will lead to companies losing employees with high skills, and that even more people will work without permanent employment in this important industry. It could also reinforce the trend — as we could read in a recent LO report — by replacing fixed-term employees in industry with short-stay rentals, preferably from Eastern Europe, instead of people living in Norway. Will the government listen to the trade union movement and reconsider this proposed cut during the permitting period in the fishing industry or not?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e673	We have put forward a proposal on the rules on permitting which we are behind. It has also taken into account what I would call 'force majeure' situations, which means that you can have a longer period of time if you like. have the type of natural disasters that the blooming of algae was in areas. That means we've seen it. At the same time, it's important to remember that 26 weeks is six months. If you want to be on leave for more than half a year – when we have a shortage of labour in many sectors of this country – it is challenging if we lock people on leave instead of going to another employer and can work where there is a need. Then you actually get more rent from people from other countries. I agree with the representative of Moxnes that it is a challenge if we see that the number of people hired increases, but then we have to ask why it happens. Is it because there is now a shortage of labour with that kind of competence? We then need to launch qualification and competence measures. That's some of what we're doing in connection with the Nav work.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e680	Rigmor Aasrud – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e685	We are constantly talking to the Prime Minister and others about how important it is to have a high level of organisation. The Stoltenberg government increased the trade union deduction in its time, and research by the Institute for Social Research shows that the degree of organisation would have been 3 pst. lower if it had not been done. Without the high degree of organisation, you would have had a decrease of 6 pst. in productivity. It shows that the authorities have the means to increase the level of organisation. But the seventh budget presented by the Solberg government makes it more expensive to be a trade union member. In the Norwegian model, there are three legs: the social partners and the authorities. Now the Prime Minister says that the government is working on measures to increase the degree of organisation. At the same time, she does not want to file a case for Stortinget. Can the Prime Minister explain what measures the government is now working on to increase the level of organisation and not just lean on the parties?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e695	As I said, as reported in the State budget, we have, together with the social partners, set up a working group headed by a State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, who is working on issues related to how to increase the level of organisation. They shall discuss actions and present them to the Employment and Pension Policy Councils and the Government. That is why I cannot now say what the measures are. We're doing what's in the spirit of tripartite cooperation: we're talking to all three parties and we're figuring out what's going on. With regard to the statistics in that research report, it does not show up in practice when they are obtained by reality, because there is no lower degree of organisation now, even though we have not increased the trade union deduction. With regard to the degree of organisation, as Hans-Christian Gabrielsen of the LO said, there is actually no dramatic and significant decline. As of the 1970s, the decline has been slightly above 2 pst. It can't be a big crisis if the LO boss doesn't think it's dramatic.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e702	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e707	The budget now presented is very bad news for the coast and for the districts. In Norway — and in northern Norway — there is a strong willingness to create jobs to generate growth. For the Workers' Party, it is important to build good communities throughout the country and make sure that people can live all over the country. In the budget, appropriations for coastal and port purposes have been reduced by 3.1 pst. It is a matter of, among other things, Cuts in fishing ports, cuts in goods from road to sea and cuts in maintenance and new acquisitions in the Coastal Plant. This government makes it harder, not easier, to build. The necessary infrastructure is needed to generate growth across the country. We need ports, we need county roads, we need broadband – we need action. We have a coast rich in resources. One clear measure for most batches is that you want to have more of the fish processed in Norway instead of having it sent out frozen and get it back wrapped in cardboard. To make it happen, the industry needs to have access to enough fish all year round. Then you have to use the whole coast. In recent years, the government has made many small cuts for the fishing industry: cuts in safety arrangements, cuts in welfare stations – small money that helps fishermen to get a place for a cup of coffee and waffles or a shower – or cuts in the management grant, a system to ensure the reception of fish along the coast, allowing fishermen to deliver fish for reception where there is no industry. It's important. Many had put their trust in the Christian People's Party to sort this out, but they have not. So my question is, is it going to be better or worse to access raw materials if you remove the lead grant?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e722	The main issue of access to raw materials is the biological development of the seas, the proper care of our seas, the control of fishing based on the quantities we have, good agreements with other countries on the management of our marine resources. That's the most important thing: to make sure that we have enough fish all year round. Then there are many discussions about how to ensure that you fish and have activity on land. We believe that some of the proposals we have include: related to allowances and other items in the Storting should be able to contribute to it. But this has to be dealt with in the future in Stortinget. Having a good competitive edge for the fishing industry is also about the framework conditions we provide businesses, including: tax and tax. When we lower company tax, when we ensure that there are good framework conditions for other things, we help to make the Norwegian fishing industry more competitive. When we spend more money on fisheries research, we help us to have a better basis for using stock management and creating long-term sustainability, but also for technologies and ways of working. Not least, we are now working on some major research projects, such as: Ocean Space Centre, which is about the entire marine area. It will benefit all of Norway in the future, with our maritime industry and our fishing industry, which will also need to use the technology and technology base we have from both the oil and gas industries and other areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e733	The Prime Minister answers a lot of things, but not at all to my question. I didn't ask about Ocean Space or about biological development in the ocean. I asked about the leadership grant, which means that the fishermen can deliver the fish where they have fished it, so you can get it to the industry. That was my question, but the minister won't answer it. I want to say that from Tromsø, where you have some industry, when you pick up fish, for example. in Burfjord, Kvænangen, it is a trip of over ten hours, 65 miles. This is because you have this leadership grant. So I ask again, why is it important for the Prime Minister to remove this grant, which does not cost much?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e740	We are making changes to different instruments to help both to have budgetary capacity and to ensure that we have good competitiveness in Norway. There are many individual grants that can make contributions, but we also believe that those who buy the fish must be able to pay for the fish to come, and that therefore, with the framework conditions we have, we will ensure that this can happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e745	There will be follow-up questions – first Cecilie Myrseth.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e750	I just want to remind you that the Question Time is for the government to come here to answer questions from big business representatives, but it may have been a little while since the Prime Minister was a regular big business representative. But I want to give an example: Karls Fisk & Shellfish in Tromsdalen picks up fish at several receptions in Nord-Troms, and is also opening a reception now in Tierøy south of the county. It is a municipality that is a conversion municipality, where new jobs are sorely needed. But if you remove this subsidy, it becomes so expensive given the long journey it is to get this fish, that it is not certain that you get to open receptions that will create the workplaces. So my question is -- I'm trying again, the third time: what is the Prime Minister's answer to Karl, who now says that these fish recipients are in danger?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e759	We can take many single examples in areas where you would like an extra measure or a subsidy or help in this area, and then you would get the job right there. The overall picture of what we're doing in this budget for North Norway is very good. The beginning of the question was that this was a negative budget for North Norway. On the contrary, this is a good budget for North Norway, if we look at how to deliver more services in the future, for example. in the health sector with a new rescue base. But we cannot maintain all individual grants above the state budget as they have always been. This also means that the leadership grant is among the measures we have not continued.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e766	Cecilie Myrseth – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e771	I'm going to try to ask the Prime Minister again about what I have now asked a lot of times: the fishermen who are going to deliver at the receptions in North Troms, who may now have no one to come and pick up this fish, what is the Prime Minister's answer to them? How are they going to live off the work they're actually doing when you remove such an important system?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e777	The driving allowance is not so important as not to be delivered to the fish for reception. Fish are delivered for reception, and the profitability of those receptions is crucial for continued operation and activity. Therefore, it is important both with the allowance notification we have delivered and to ensure that there is profitability in all parts of this. However, we cannot say that it is a single measure that is crucial to whether we have a good fishing industry in Norway and in North Norway. It isn't, because there are a lot of complex reasons for it, and this government is leading a good policy to implement them.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e782	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e787	Now there are several rounds of questions about leadership speech. At first it was Pollestad who asked that question, and then Cecilie Myrseth no, who actually had to explain what the scheme was going on before the Prime Minister realized what the scheme was. In the first answer, she escaped to answer the whole thing. But we have from the fish salads what happens if you remove the leader's tail, which is ready to feed fish when you don't have a reception for that kind of fish in the vicinity, to a reception that has it. Take Hitra crabs: All this crab, of course, comes not from Hitra, but from the whole coast, and it's coming here because it's a guide, which is crucial for coastal fishermen to be able to translate the values of their fjords. The removal of the whole system is, in fact, a rather powerful attack on both coastal fishermen and industry. Why? What is the foundation of the prime minister for doing this?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e794	I know very well what the leadership grant is. We have removed it because we are removing some arrangements in the state budget to accommodate other important priorities, including: because we do a lot to contribute to increased profitability overall in Norwegian business. This means that there are other measures that contribute to profitability as well. Then we have removed this because we believe that you have to be able to deliver fish and get paid for that fish in a way that also includes the extra costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e799	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e804	Removing this guide will actually cause large values not to be taxed in Norway today, values inside fjord arms, in places where there is little reception. They're not going to be taxed, because there's no room for the fish. The leadership has been a system that has given us values out of the sea – added values. When one removes this, one not only loses those values; one does not tax them. Nor are they producing a rural industry, although the government has said that it should increase the agricultural sector in the fisheries sector. In addition, a change to the permit rules has halved the permit rules for the fishing industry, which is also a rather severe blow to the fishing industry. We cannot see – not in any area – that this is compensated with other types of instrument. But it is possible that we have overlooked something, so my question to the Prime Minister is simply, what are we ignoring? What other measures are there to improve the fishing industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e811	We have proposed to remove the lead grant – yes. We believe that a profitable industry should not depend on a single subsidy to feed it. Then they must actually pay for the feeding to the fishermen in order for that fish to be delivered. So it's going to be up to the business that runs this, to pay for it. That is the answer to the question, rather than the State subsidising a form of transport of raw materials. The other thing that is being asked is the changes in the permit rules. As I said earlier, we've gone down to the normal length of the permitting rules, 26 weeks. So it's six months' leave. We believe that this is also right for the fishing industry to have, simply because, if you are licensed longer than that – and it is not a force majeure situation – you lock labour that we should be using elsewhere in an economy that is now asking for labour.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e818	The oral question procedure is now over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e832	There will be some changes to the questionnaire, and the President will refer to the electronic question list in this section. The changes were as follows: Question 4, from the representative Bersvend Salbu to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, has been transferred to the Minister for Climate and Environment, who is directly responsible. However, the question will be answered by the Minister for Research and Higher Education on behalf of the Minister for Climate and Environment, who has been away. At the request of the Minister of Research and Higher Education, this question is moved and answered before Question 11, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 8, from the representative Solfrid Lerbrackk to the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Finance, who will direct him. At the request of the Minister of Finance, this question is moved and answered in response to question 1, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 11, from the representative Lars Haltbrecken of the Minister for Climate and Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Research and Higher Education on behalf of the Minister for Climate and Environment, who has been away.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e848	"Our world needs a radical and fair environmental transition in all areas, we need a green new deal. Over the summer, it has become even clearer that the population, and especially the young people, are rightly impatient and believe that the transition is too slow. We're still very oil dependent, at a time when we're going to be oil independent. The Climate Risk Committee concluded that ‘An ambitious and effective climate policy is the most important approach that Norwegian authorities can take to address the risk’. Does the Council of State see an increase in emissions increasing the risk?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e855	We're going to leave nature and the environment to the next generation in at least as good a condition as when we took over it. This government has therefore set ambitious Norwegian climate targets and has an offensive climate policy. Climate policy works, and greenhouse gas emissions per capita have fallen to levels we have not seen since 1990. The projections show that emissions will decrease even faster in the coming years. We see a particularly positive development in the transport sector. For example, 44.7 pst. electric new car sales from January to September. In 2013, emissions from new passenger cars in Norway were at EU level. Today, emissions from new cars in Norway are more than 40 pst. in the EU. We are also world leaders in developing and using zero and low-carbon ferries. Norway had a very offensive emission target for new passenger cars to have an average CO 2 emissions per kilometre of less than 85 grams by 2020. This goal was achieved three years in advance, thanks to the government's offensive policy in this area. The government has set a new ambitious target for all new passenger cars to be a zero-emission vehicle in 2025, and the government is already well on its way to meeting the target. The climate challenge is global and can only be addressed through global cooperation. It is irrelevant to the global warming from which emissions come, but Norway must also cut its own emissions. Solving the climate challenge requires cooperation and action both locally, nationally and internationally. This government takes its share of responsibility, both at home and internationally. Global emissions have increased in the last two years. Norway shall fulfil its obligations. We take our share of responsibility, both at home and internationally, but solving the climate challenge requires cooperation and action, as I said, both locally, nationally and internationally. The amount of heating will depend on the further development of greenhouse gas emissions in the world. Through the Paris Agreement, all countries in the world have agreed to keep the global average temperature well below 2 degrees, compared with pre-industrial levels, and aim to limit the temperature increase to 1.5 degrees. According to the Climate Risk Committee, global warming and climate change will have both a moderate negative and a positive impact on the Norwegian economy. In the case of major climate change, the consequences are potentially significant, but also difficult to understand.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e871	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. Among other things, she mentions: electric car policy, which is successful precisely because it is a result of choices made in fiscal policy that takes account not only of money but also of climate. Other findings of the Climate Risk Committee's investigation are: ‘The work of the Committee shall contribute to increased knowledge and understanding of climate risk, but better understanding of risks is of primary importance if it leads to better decision-making.’;» Then it is disappointing that government decisions do not improve, in the form of taking more account of climate change and adaptation. The committee also proposed to have its own forecast of climate risk, but it was not followed up. Now we have a proposal for a government budget without CCS investments, which will be both necessary for the climate and economically viable in the long term. What decisions can we then expect the government to take to control the climate risk?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e883	First, CCS and the State budget: the government is on track, and we follow up the decision of the Stortinget in the revised budget, so that we can make an investment decision as soon as possible, either in 2020 or 2021. And one of the things we donate money to in the state budget is just a well of investigation, which is an important premise for the whole decision-making base. Then it is that the Climate Risk Committee is followed up by the government. I think the most important thing is the way this is followed up by decision-makers also in Norwegian society. For my part, I see very well how to work on this, not least in the whole financial industry – the insurance companies, not least – who are concerned with understanding this, also have good risk understanding in the way they manage the entire insurance landscape, as a result of which we are exposed to major climate change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e890	The fact that the financial industry is starting to take into account the climate risk, makes me even more stunned that the state does not. I think it's obvious that the government is postponing investments in CCS, because the financial risk is likely to be less for every year that goes. This re-emphasises the economic risk more than the climate risk. In some cases, it's like the economic arguments are the only language the right-hand side understands. It was at least money and not climate that was behind a decision to withdraw the oil fund from coal, and in NBIM's latest quarterly report on the oil fund, we see that all sectors of the fund contributed positively to the return on the fund, except oil and gas. It is clear that such things are fluctuating, and that this one quarter does not provide enough basis for extraction itself, but I think at least it is involved and point out that we can have a good yield and an oil fund in growth, even without contributing to the world's extraction of even more harmful fossil fuels. Why won't the government then draw the oil fund out of all fossil energy?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e899	Here the representative Schaugvoll Foss mixes many things together in his questions. Indeed, the investment strategy for the State pension fund abroad is drawn up through the annual notification addressed by the Stortinget. There has long been a broad political consensus in Norway that the management of this fund should be based on economic criteria and that it should not be an instrument either in foreign policy or in climate policy. It has served us well. So we make a lot of decisions about managing the fund every year. They are considered in good, thorough analyses, but they are primarily about reducing vulnerability and risk to management, so that future generations can also benefit from the values created. That's a significant part of the government budgets every year, too, I would like to remind you of.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e906	Let's move on to question 8.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e914	This question, from the representative of Solfrid Lerbrk to the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Finance, who will direct him.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e919	"Our world needs a radical and fair environmental transition in all areas, we need a "green, new deal". Petroleum-related industries will be less important to the Norwegian economy in the future if we are to meet our goal of keeping the earth below 1.5 degrees. Some researchers estimate that demand for Norwegian oil and gas will fall much faster than estimated. What is the government's plan to secure new jobs for the industry in the future, before people are in danger of losing their jobs?'
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e926	Let me repeat some of what I said to the previous questioner, that we are going to leave nature and the environment to the next generation in at least as good a condition as we took over. That is why the government has set ambitious Norwegian climate targets, and we are pursuing an offensive climate policy. And it works. Emissions per capita have fallen to levels that we have not seen since 1990. Oil companies have cut costs significantly in recent years. Therefore, most of the development fields planned on a Norwegian base will be profitable even with significantly lower oil and gas prices than today. The industries supplying oil are technologically advanced and highly competitive — also internationally. However, as few new findings are to be developed, the demand from the petroleum industry is expected to decrease over time. To some extent this can be countered by increased deliveries to other countries. Nevertheless, Norwegian economy over time will need more legs to stand on. Good competitiveness is essential for other industries to grow and for us to have a resilient and high-growth economy. For six years, this government has been pursuing a policy that supports competitiveness and transition. It's given results. Employment is increasing sharply. There is optimism in business. Competitiveness has been significantly improved. Investments have not been higher than 10 years. We have a fiscal policy that is well adapted to the economic situation. We have prioritised growth-promoting tax relief, and we have focused on culture, research and education. Then there is always uncertainty about the future economic development. Developments in the oil industry can be both stronger and weaker than envisaged. The framework for economic policy and reserves built up in the State pension fund makes us well equipped to meet any weaker developments. The 2014 oil price drop showed this with all clarity.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e947	It's hard to look into the future, especially when the world is changing as much as it is. It may be convenient for the government to think that an oil policy should continue, but 15 years in advance we will be in a world with far more renewable energy than today and lower demand for oil and gas. It will have enormous consequences for the jobs in the oil and gas industries. Does the government have any concrete thoughts about what industries these highly skilled workers will work in when demand for oil and gas goes down, and why does the government not do more today to prepare for this?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e952	I disagree that the government does not do its own thing to prepare for this. That's exactly what we've been doing systematically over the last six years: strengthening the adaptability of business and our economy to make sure we get more legs to stand on. Then it's about making it easier for our business to make larger investment decisions. It is about the fact that we are a long way forward in technology development, which has come not least from the oil and gas industries themselves, which are now beginning to grow up new innovation, new exciting products, companies, etc., which come right out of the technological development of this industry. It's not like we just keep going the way we did before. All forecasts and projections that have been made in different budgets over several years have shown that we are preparing for a decline in revenue from this industry. This is precisely why we also need to support the conversion of the instruments we use in industrial policy and in financial policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e959	The government has used the word "nutritional neutrality" many times, but if a really want large-scale conversion, it may be useful to point out some areas where the country's elected leaders think new jobs will arise, especially in terms of private capital. It will be much more attractive for them to invest in Norway if we have a clear policy on which industries to invest. Is the government willing to leave the word ‘nutritional neutrality’ and e.g. Did the new land-based industry, for example, focus more on hydrogen and metal production and provide better conditions for happiness?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e964	This government has not used the words ‘nutritional policy’. It's a statement that comes from parts of the opposition. On the contrary, what the government is doing is putting in a broad range of instruments to stimulate us to get more people to stand on, that business is investing. I want to remind the representative that it is not the Stortinget or the government that creates jobs, it is the business that does. This happens because it is well facilitated by the fact that we have a competitive tax system. This government reduces taxes, as opposed to SV and other parties that want to increase tax burden and make it more difficult for companies to make investments at home. We want them to take the investments here instead of moving investments and jobs to other countries. It is about pursuing a systematic, business-friendly policy that recognises the need for migration into the Norwegian economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e969	We go back to question 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e977	Thanks to the government council Bollestad who steps in. And congratulations so much to the council of Ropstad, who has become a father, and who is surely stuck to this stream and is coming right now. "The world needs a radical and fair environmental transition, we need a green, new deal. Then we have to make sure that things we're making are made to last longer, but now it's going the opposite way. Mobile phones and computers only last a few years before it has to be thrown, and there is evidence that electronics are designed to break up after a short time. Does the government do anything to ensure that the products last?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e986	Firstly, I should like to take with me the congratulations of the representative to Ropstad. He's probably stuck, like I've done – four times – once I've had a baby. It's worth celebrating! I share the representative's commitment, because some of our greatest challenges are the climate challenges, the pollution, the loss of nature and the challenges at sea. These are challenges for all of us. And that also means that, as a state, we need to do more, and that as an individual, we need to do more to achieve the goals that enable us to leave the globe to future generations in the same way that we ourselves have received it – and preferably better. The question from the representative was: What does the government do? In June, the government issued a major communication on consumer policy, entitled «Consumer of the future – green, smart and digital». The Communication points to sustainable consumption as an important input in the future, that it actually becomes important that consumer policy is a driving force for new, sustainable solutions by facilitating cooperation between business, authorities and civil society. The Government will therefore establish a Sustainable Consumption Cooperation Forum. We imagine a knowledge and competence centre for smart and sustainable consumer choices. The Government is committed to strengthening the Eco-label schemes. The Nordic Swan, which is well known, imposes strict environmental requirements, quality requirements and production requirements. We also see the same thing in other consumer goods, such as food, where the focus has been on how food is produced, and on how food is thrown. So the question of technical equipment, such as: mobile phones and PCs: We in Norway have good complaint rules for this. For us, the goods will last more than two years, and we have warranty rules of up to five years. In ours, the EU tried to say that we should have a complaint in just two years. Norway insisted that we wanted a guarantee claim of five years, and that it should be the responsibility of the manufacturers and of the sellers. Norway has retained this, and the EU has at the same time approved it, because we see that it is a challenge that goods last so short.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e999	Thank you for your reply to the Council of State. First of all, the climate crisis is happening now, and we have ten years to implement quite major, far-reaching changes in how we organise the whole society if we are to manage to cut enough emissions to prevent severe climate change impacts. SV believes that 60 pst. By 2030, our fair responsibility for achieving the global climate goals is, and then, a comprehensive social plan is needed to go both concretely and in detail to work to cut emissions wherever they are. Of course, this transformation must also apply to the things we make, which this question is about. We have to use limited resources wisely and don't do things over and over again. It creates emissions. However, it has been demonstrated that companies design, for example: electronics, which is the example here, to last only as long as the guarantee claim in each country lasts, and we see that differently from country to country. Will the Council of State take the initiative to amend legislation to prevent this kind of environmental and consumer-friendly product adaptation?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e1008	Now, in fact, Norway has already taken a fight, because the EU wanted these goods to which the representative refers, really just to have a two-year complaint, precisely because we see the large use of resources for each PC and each phone, which was the example of the question. Norway was clear that we believe that one should be responsible and produce this so that it will last for a longer period. I believe that we as consumers should demand that, and that as a country we should demand, and I believe that we should make that demand for those who produce, just to get a lower consumption of resources to have an environmental benefit.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e1013	It's important to say that things are produced, like electronics, that last less time than what is technologically necessary, that are designed to break up because it pays to do it that way today. It pays off for mobile producers because we still buy new mobile phones, instead of making things like goods. It is not the technology that is the problem here, but it is the opposite of the market, or the policy, in that case. Another view is that things that are designed to break up are expensive and difficult to repair. Where we previously got a broken PC or mobile phone fixed, we buy a new one very often instead. Earlier this year, Henrik Huseby, a mobile repairer on Ski, lost to Apple in Borgarting Lawyers after this technology giant sued him for using repaired original parts when he fixed broken Apple products. So the law also limits our ability to repair electronics instead of throwing and buying new ones. Does the Council of State think that legislation should be amended to make it easier for us to repair rather than throw things away?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e1022	The government has a commitment that we should not have such a use-and-cast mentality as one refers to here. It should be possible to repair, and we have said that we want a lifetime of these products of five years. The EU initially disagreed, but they have actually gone into it for the same reason. Then I would like to say that what the representative points out, whether one should also set the requirement for suppliers, on how to bring down that consumption and the use-and-throwing mentality and get a longer life span, are important principles that we must work with both nationally and internationally. For these are companies that have great fundraising behind them, which makes them able to put these repairers who want to repair their products, to court. So here we have to work both in our own country and internationally if we're to succeed, and I think we as communities have to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e1032	‘In 2017, necessary changes to the Training Act were made. 9 A to ensure more effective anti-tampering legislation and better enforcement of the rules. The change has now worked for a while, and one of the experiences is that teachers are experiencing their own legal security weakening, which both the National Association of Schools and the Federation of Education have problematised. In a report from Response's Analysis, a total of six out of ten teachers asked that their legal certainty was weakened. Does the State Council share the concerns of the Workers' Party and its organisations about this development?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e1039	The purpose of the new school environment legislation has been to strengthen the rights of students who are being bullied and who are being harmed. If a teacher bullies a student, it's a gross breach of trust. That is why we need to react quickly and rigorously. We have introduced an increased obligation of activity in cases where employees at school are violating students. In the new rule, the Training Act § 9 A-5, there are strict requirements for both alerting and speeding up the case in such cases. In the Deloitte evaluation report of June this year, it appears that there is a great deal of hope that the Training Act should include an increased obligation to operate. This provision helps to ensure that there are reports of cases where students have been violated by someone working at school. There have been cases in which it has been right to establish staff cases against employees. At the same time, questions arise as to whether the legal certainty of employees is adequately ensured when the subjective experience of the student is to be taken into account in these matters. Let me be clear: we need to ensure the legal certainty of our teachers in school environment matters. However, it is the individual school owner as the employer who has the primary responsibility for the safe working environment of all school employees. Teachers in difficult situations should not stand alone, but receive help and support from their employers. We are now working on following up the recommendations in the evaluation report. We would like, among other things: assess whether the legal certainty of school staff is adequately ensured. Otherwise, both the evaluation and the experience show that the legislation related to the increased obligation of activity may appear unclear. That is why we are now considering the recommendations of the report on clarifying the guidelines so that we can provide better and clearer information on the legislation and the key assessments on issues related to the increased obligation of activity. We will also look at the recommendations against the proposals made by the Training Law Committee in its study in December this year. We will assess this in cooperation with relevant actors in the sector. However, I would like to end with the most important thing: the evaluation shows that the rules have worked. Schools work more actively, and students are more likely to feel safe and well at school. And we're also going to have to include that when we evaluate how we can make the rules even better and clearer.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e1058	I fully agree with the objective, a change in the training law was good, and I agree that it has worked. I feel that some of the uncertainty the teachers are raising is both about handling and about some uncertainty about the terms in the law. First of all, with the handling, which the Council of State is also concerned with: After the amendment of the law, more and more teachers are experiencing more or less serious allegations. One unfortunately sees a tendency that these matters sometimes escalate quickly without the teacher having the opportunity to comment or have access to the case documents, and that one does not do thorough enough research in the matter. Governments stress that it is important that teachers also receive help and support. This should be easier. My question is about the Council of State now, when evaluating, can warn that a person will take action to improve the practice of legislation – whether he will make his own assessments to make changes that make it even more clear that teachers have the right to object when there are matters that deal with them.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e1071	The evaluation has been carried out. What we're now evaluating is how we're going to follow it up. We are already doing well, we have dialogue, among other things. with the Education Directorate about it. We also know that teachers' organisations are very active in this matter, and it's natural to have dialogue with them. There's two questions here. One is how we can improve the guidance on how the rules can be understood or understood. So there's a question of whether there's a need to clarify the law. As far as the law itself is concerned, it will take some time, and we need to consider that against the proposals that came from the Training Law Committee, so any legal precedents will only be in force in the spring of 2021. But in terms of how we can provide better guidance, we aim to be able to clean it up relatively quickly. I believe that we need to be able to provide clearer and better guidance through clearer guidelines already in the spring of 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e1078	It's good that you get some quick changes in place, and I'll challenge the Council of State if he can say even more clearly if the teachers will have a right to object in addition – more than guidance – so that they might get a right at some level. I also agree with the Council of State that there will be a need to look more clearly at the law. There is a discussion, especially about the term ‘infringement’. It is good that students' subjective experiences are taken seriously, but teachers' organisations also point to examples where students and parents complain that the teacher is violating the student in cases where the teacher himself thinks he has set limits. I think it is positive that the Council of State now says that one should look at this. But is it also possible to make changes, perhaps better discussions around the law, so that one can ensure that there are changes to this before 2021, as the Council of State has warned?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e1085	Let me first be clear at two points. One is that I don't want to do anything that weakens students' rights. This is a very important law in the fight for a better learning environment and the fight against bullying, I guess we agree on that. The second is the responsibility of the school owner, we must not be afraid of that either, it must be absolutely central. The teacher shall not be left alone in a difficult situation. As for what changes may be relevant, I will not foreshadow it. I think that needs to be carefully considered, and we need to look at the proposals that come from the Training Law Committee. But much of the discussion that has taken place – I follow it very closely and get input from the teachers’ organisations – is linked to uncertainty about how the legislation is to be understood. I think that's the first thing we have to look at. As I have already notified, we will start work quickly and look at how we can get clearer guidelines and better guidance, so that that uncertainty can be cleared up by the way. And then we need to have a more thorough process of possible legal clarifications.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e1094	Question 4 will be answered later. We go to question 5.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e1104	‘Trunnder-Avisa reports on 27 September that the government is considering changing the response time targets for the ambulance service. In the same newspaper, the director of the Department of Health said that ‘responsive time alone does not have a significant impact on survival and public health’. At the same time, two emergency samples have been submitted for response times — including because the prognosis of cardiac arrest and stroke falls significantly for every minute until the patient receives treatment. Does the Council share the assessment that response time does not have a significant impact on survival and public health?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e1111	An indicative response time for ambulances, based on the emergency investigation, was identified in the 2000 Emergency Emergency Response Notice. The goal of the emergency summit is 90 pst. the population shall be reached by ambulances within 12 minutes in cities and within 25 minutes in pig-grown areas. The Emergency Committee considered that these objectives provided a reasonable balance between the need for rapid response and long-range challenges and sparsely populated areas in parts of the country. Ambulance response time is defined as the time from AMK notification and until the ambulance arrives on site. The acute selection recommended response time as a planning tool for the service. To Trønderavias on 27 September, the Health Directorate stated that response time alone does not have a significant impact on survival and public health. The representative Top asks if I share this assessment. The health directorate’s point is that good organisation of the entire emergency chain is important for the outcome, as well as response time. I agree. OECD figures show that Norway is in the top class for the treatment of acute myocardial infarction and stroke. This indicates that we have a functioning emergency chain. It is well documented that the outcome of emergency medical conditions depends to a large extent on rapid on-site first aid and early diagnosis and further healthcare treatment. When an emergency occurs, it is very important to get competent help to the patient. This applies regardless of whether it is an ambulance service or other health care. The representative is called cardiac arrest and stroke. At cardiac arrest, it is important that cardiopulmonary rescue is initiated before the ambulance arrives. In the event of a stroke, it's important that the patient and the people around know the signs of a stroke and call 113. That is why we have now started a national first aid effort in the population. The aim is for the entire population to know the signs of a stroke and provide early warning of the emergency number 113. The Health Directorate is now reviewing the quality indicator for response time and will assess whether more quality indicators should be introduced in addition, e.g. time from cardiac arrest to cardiopulmonary rescue. I think that's a positive job.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e1126	There has been a political discussion about whether or not the guide response time targets should be legalised, but I have never understood either the government or the government so that it has not been a goal to work towards meeting the long-term response time targets across the country. So when the government reports that they are going to evaluate the response time targets, many more than me ask the government question no longer sees it as a goal to reach the response times around the country, in all health care agencies – both in cities and districts. This was what the last emergency selection suggested: the response time measurements should be continued. Is it now that the government is considering going away from the response time targets?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e1133	The answer to that is no. I am the health minister who just followed up the proposal of the last emergency committee, who did not recommend the solution of the centre party in this case – a regulation fixing the response times – and was against it. So the Center Party doesn't listen to the top expert in this area, but I do, and the government does. That is why we have done what the emergency committee proposed, namely to introduce response times as a national quality indicator. It's not going to happen any changes on it. What the Health Directorate is working on, as I also said, is to ensure that the response time is measured in a good way, so that it actually reflects what is happening in the emergency medical chain, and possibly also further develop it so that we measure other important factors, such as: When you start cardiopulmonary rescue, because we know it's essential that it starts before the ambulance arrives.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e1140	The government has probably not listened well enough to the emergency selection, because their opinion was that the response time should actually be reached. We know that doesn't happen around the country. For the Central Party, we are wondering: Is it so that the government will accept it if health professionals put plans that go directly across the objectives of the emergency selection and that a political one has — for example, the problem of drug abuse? when one proposes to have a one-man ambulance in Geiranger, in spite of the fact that the emergency medical code states that ambulances should be manned by two with such training? Or when one in Health Förde is now considering removing an ambulance in Lavik, in a district that does not achieve the response time targets today: will the government intervene to follow up the intention of the emergency selection and what goes on a better prehospital service?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e1147	I have followed up the recommendations of the Emergency Committee, and this is also a broader issue in the next National Health and Sickness Plan, which is to be submitted before Christmas. The case of one-man ambulances is, as the representative is also in the Chamber, not in line with the regulation. I assume, of course, that the companies deal with the law and regulations without me having to intervene. But let's look at the proposal of the Centre Party: if we're going to take it seriously, that means, for example, that. Health North and Health Mid-Norway must have spent nearly 700 million. kr in total – at least – to achieve this if it had been prescribed. The centre party must also reflect on whether it is the use of the money that would actually have helped to save the lives of as many people as possible in Norway, for this would also have led to a severe reduction in the quality of the service and, not least, it would have probably led to many one-man ambulances in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e1157	‘The world needs a radical and fair environmental transition, we need a ‘green, new deal’. On the basis of the SSB figures, the Minister of Industry in the Class struggle of 19 August claims that there is a green shift in the industry. He writes: 'The arrows of the Norwegian industry are pointing up. [[...]] And that while the green shift is going on." But do not the figures show that the growth mainly occurs in oil and gas operations, i.e. that there is no expression of a green shift?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e1164	First of all, let me say that Norway is going to be one, in practice, zero-emission society in 2050. Already in 2030, emissions shall be cut by 40 pst. If a holding is not part of the future solution, it is not part of the future either. No business that is unable to convert into a green and climate-friendly society can have the right of life or survive. You have to be part of the total solution. That doesn't mean that no one will be able to emit CO 2 – everyone understands – but that means that you have to be part of a comprehensive solution that makes us come to a low-carbon society. What I referred to in the Class struggle was not oil and gas operations, but the development of the entire mainland industry. The demand from oil and gas plays a major role in the development of the mainland industry, especially for the petroleum-oriented supplier industry, which is also the cluster of competences involved in the development of many of the new, climate-friendly technology solutions. We have a lot of strong industrial environments, and the development of industry is linked to the exploitation of our natural resources, but also to the continuous transformation and transfer of knowledge between industries. When I'm out in Norwegian business, both in small and large companies, one of the most important topics is everyone talking about, climate and the transition to green society. Greenhouse gas emissions from industry, i.e. the mainland industry, have been reduced by 40 pst. since 1990. That means that we've managed to have a growth over a long period without having a corresponding increase in emissions. If you look at the growth of purchasing power or the growth of the Norwegian economy from 1990 to today, it is formidable, but emissions have declined in recent years. There are so many examples: the Hydro technology pilot at Karmøy, Tizir, who is developing new energy-efficient and climate-friendly technology at the Tyssedal melting plant, and Rockwool, who are looking at the possibility of investing in electric melting furnaces for the production of stone wool. When I meet Norwegian industry, which is the specific theme here, it is not that Norwegian industry leans back and says, ‘We do our job, so we don’t have to do anything more.’ Rather, they’re busy, because they’ve managed to lead the way in using new technological solutions and getting emissions down, that they have to do even more. Among other things, through Process21, where the industry itself sits in the driver's seat, we will see how we can achieve a trend towards minimum industrial emissions, while at the same time creating competitive and forward-looking process industries. There is probably no other country in the world that is better placed and better able to do just that than Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e1180	The big question is not if the Norwegian industry does enough, but if the government does enough. The answer to that is no. On the contrary, it's only been two days since the government put forward a government budget where they for the first time agree that one is actually not going to achieve the climate targets in 2020. It's all in blue if one wants to reach them in 2030. Governments can sum up as much as they want different types of action, but when it comes to it: Is the effect there? Are we going to achieve what we've committed ourselves to doing? No, we don't. So it's too little. Then the Council of State has claimed that there is growth in the Norwegian land industry. But if one looks behind the numbers used by the government, one can see that there is actually no growth in the land industry. The actual monthly growth in August is being slowed down because of low industrial figures, so the growth we are now seeing in Norwegian, wide-scale industry, is inconclusive because of the petroleum industry. Can the Council of State admit that he misinterprets the numbers?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e1187	I did not misinterpret the fact that the Norwegian industry is doing well, and that it is optimistic. To give an example, if there's record investment, we don't know, but we know that it's heavily invested. Investments in the Norwegian industry are increasing. Why is that important? Well, because those who invest don't come to be nice with Norway. Very many of these are non-resident owners. They come because they believe in growth in Norway. They come because they believe in growth while we pursue offensive climate policies. In 2022 we get the answer to what's going on in 2020, and then it's true that 2030 is unknown. That's simply because we're on our way there now. Looking at the projection of emissions in Norway, they are moving in the right direction – and not just that – the pieces that need to be in place to meet the emissions target by 2030, and then, in practice, the zero-emission society by 2050, are now coming – not only the EU's quota system, not just focusing on climate technology, but also plans for each and every sector of society and how we should contribute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e1194	I don't understand where the government gets its numbers. The source of the numbers that we use, as the State Council also initially refers to, SSB, shows the opposite of what the State Council claims. The growth in industry does not come from the land industry and investment there. It doesn't come from the power sector and investments there. There's the unchanged or the decline. The investment boost comes entirely from the petroleum industry. So we're enhancing our dependence on petroleum at a time when we're going to make a change. So the Council of State said that there is an increase in investment in industry in 2020 or in the future. According to the SSB, there is a reduction in investment in industry in 2020. This is becoming increasingly dependent on investments in the petroleum industry. One does not make up for increased investment in the rural industry. One directs the country towards greater oil dependency. How, then, can the Council of State make this look like we're inside a green shift?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e1201	Firstly, the investment figures in the Norwegian industry I talked about were for the current year. The current year is not finished, so in other words, we don't know whether it's going to be record investments or not, but there are simple numbers to find. What I have reacted to in several rounds is that especially SV seems to believe that the only people who are interested in the climate are in this room – and not just that – in one party and maybe a couple more. Nor can it be seen that Norwegian industry – long before this was admirably demonstrated outside Stortinget – has worked with climate, environment and new technology and cut emissions by 40 pst. since 1990. And they're by no means finished. So I want to say that if we're actually going to be able to achieve our emission targets, which we have to do, Norwegian business isn't just part of the problem -- they're also -- they're most of the solution. If you don't have a good business policy, you don't get a good green policy either.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e1211	‘If Brazil increases deforestation, global greenhouse gas emissions will be affected and Norway and the rest of the world will have to cut much more to keep heating down. If the world is to achieve its climate objectives, trade policy must contribute to more cutbacks and not help undermine the objective. Is it in Norway's interest to conclude an agreement with Mercosur, where there are no clear sanctions against deforestation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e1218	If we're going to be able to avoid global warming as a result of anthropogenic emissions, we're totally dependent on keeping as much of the rainforest as possible. Trade policy should also contribute to supporting other objectives of Norwegian policy, including our strong commitment to climate change objectives. Trade policy shall also contribute to sustainable development, including reaching the obligations arising from the Paris Agreement. Note that here I say ‘support’ because, of course, trade policy cannot do this alone. That is why it is also a very central theme of our free trade agreements negotiations, where chapters on trade and sustainable development are a high priority from our side. The government has not only followed the situation closely – as you can see from the constitutional responsibility of another State Council, the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment – it has also made clear to the Brazilian authorities that we are very concerned about the increased deforestation and the political signals that came in this regard. Through the government's climate and forest initiatives, we have cooperated with a number of countries. It is important for Norway that we have a comprehensive trade policy that also takes account of the environment and climate. We are also very much promoting internationally in terms of precisely taking into account the climate and the environment in free trade agreements. I have mentioned the chapter on trade and sustainable development. After several rounds of negotiations with Mercosur, we were able to see through a chapter that supports Norway’s climate and environment policy in a good way, as well as workers’ rights. That's a result that I'm happy with. The provision for trade and sustainable forest management, including: commitments to combat illegal logging have been particularly important for Norway. The agreement also supports our objective of promoting sustainable trade in agricultural and forestry products. Then the representative has a question of penalties. There's a general picture that it's okay to bring with it, and it's that Norway, as a small country, is primarily dependent on well-functioning multilateral systems. So the kind of unilateral financial sanctions Norway has traditionally been very sceptical about because it undermines international cooperation. I therefore believe that our approach in the chapter on trade and sustainable development is good, and also in line with long lines of Norwegian policy, through several governments. The agreement may resolve questions of compliance with the obligations through consultations, mediation, conciliation, willing intervention and dialogue within the Joint Committee. In short, the agreement gives us a platform for dialogue and cooperation, and if you are to have a chance to influence, you also need arenas and platforms. I also note that the EU has adopted a similar approach in all of its free trade agreements.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e1235	The nature of the penalties provided for in this agreement is impossible for the opposition because the Storting has not yet been given access to the agreement to which the government has acceded. But what we know is that the conclusion of agreements with the EU and EFTA has strengthened the legitimacy of the President of Brazil, and we know something about what is happening under the current regime in Brazil. Since the end of the year, the budget of the forest police has been reduced by 25 p.m., and there is an increase in deforestation in Brazil by 278 p.m. in July 2019 compared to 2018. What we also know is that if Norway is turning around and putting pressure on Brazil, we will not be alone, because the Austrian Parliament has said no to the EU agreement with Mercosur, and yesterday the French Minister for the Environment came with a clarification on behalf of France and said that France cannot sign a trade agreement that does not respect the rainforest and the Paris agreement. Will Norway stand on Bolsonaros or on the part of France and Austria in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e1246	Norway will stand on the side of Norway as well as on the side of international climate agreements and, of course, support all those who help us to reduce deforestation, in order to take full account of crucial rainforest resources. Just a little bit about the process: first of all, it was quite natural that when the president of Brazil – whom I also have my opinions on – announced that an agreement had been reached with the EFTA countries, I also commented as Minister of Industry. In all trade negotiations, there are two things that always happen. One is that it's a post-work with, among other things. the legal nature of the agreements in order to ensure that everything is fully in place. The second is that these should be ratified in Stortinget. What the government has said is that the negotiations are now over. Then they're going to be ratified in Stortinget. Then, of course, the Storting gets full insight into the entire agreement – and so it did.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e1253	The Minister of Industry was concerned that Norway could not do things unilaterally, but had to do so in cooperation with other countries. Now, the reality is that we have a situation where two countries that are close to us say that they cannot implement the agreement that the EU has concluded with Mercosur. It puts the matter in a completely different light, because then it is quite natural that we have that debate on the EFTA side as well. My question is: what is it that France and Austria have failed to understand that Torbjørn Røe Isaksen has understood about this agreement? Why can Norway not join France and Austria in putting pressure on the President of Brazil in the most effective way we can at present, namely by saying that if the rainforest policy is not changed, the government will recommend the Storting not to conclude this agreement or require EFTA to resume negotiations?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e1260	It could be turned around, because one could ask the question: what is it that all the other EU countries have understood that the representative Lysbakken has not understood? But I think it is far too polemic, because the reality here is that we all agree on the goal. Norway has a clear ambition, a goal, a policy, that we should contribute to the conservation of the rainforest. Then we disagree on what is a good tool to do it in this particular case. I respect that parts of the opposition believe that saying that we don't want an agreement will be such a powerful tool that you think it will affect you. We – and I – have a different assessment. Our assessment is that in order to influence a country in the long term — and it is important to remember that although Bolsonaro’s policy has become more difficult for the rainforest, there is nothing new about deforestation in Brazil — there is a need for mutual commitments, and there is a need for areas where not only meeting but also listening is needed. That is why I believe that this trade agreement also helps Norway play an important role in preventing deforestation in Brazil.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e1265	Question 8 has been answered in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e1273	"Our world needs a radical and fair environmental transition in all areas. We need a green, new deal. In transport, we have a lot of opportunities. The Socialist Left Party has repeatedly innumerable times that frequent zero-emission ferries have to replace the bridges and tunnels in ‘Free E39’. Constituent road director Bjørne Grimsrud in the state road system has recently told today's industry that they will soon advise the Minister of Transport to postpone plans on some of the fjord crossings. Will the Council of State now review the whole, or parts of the ‘Free E39’ in the light of the peer reviews?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e1280	Let me first say that climate change, loss of nature and pollution are the three major environmental challenges of our time. The country of the world, including Norway, must thereby reduce climate change, take better care of nature and create a circular economy. Therefore, this government has seen ambitious climate targets. We have an offensive climate and environmental policy, and we have, among other things: establish a bioeconomy strategy. We have also reinforced climate reconciliation – electric car policy is a good example of this. The results are clear. 44.7 pst. of new cars from January to September this year is electric, against 5.5 pst. in 2013. Six years ago, emissions from new passenger cars in Norway were at EU level. Today, emissions from new cars are more than 40 pst. below EU level. We are world leaders in developing and using zero- and low-emission technologies, and such solutions are essential for further conversion to a low-emission society. The representative Nävra has asked questions about the government will scrape the strategy on the free E39, many times – a strategy that they themselves apparently were devoted to when they put into government, and that I have explained many times that this government does not intend to leave. The strategy is still in place, so that the short answer to Mr Nävra's representative could have our no. When I still choose to start something more, it is about that it seems to me that SV is not actually concerned with the solutions. The last numbers we have, for example. for Hordfast – a road project the President is probably aware of – shows that with the estimates we have today, the emission reductions resulting from such an investment, in a forty-year perspective, will be several million tonnes, with the technology we know today. It shows that SV is in the process of entering not only a siding, but a complete loophole, when they create rational and unprofessional arguments. Our fagates, based on a mission I have ordered, have looked at how one can get more for each invested krone in the transport sector in the years to come, and that is the basis for our further NTP work. Among other things, there will be: The fact that the costs are estimated when the Storting adopts the National Transport Plan, too often cracking down — when the Swedish Government put it in place, and we also have experience of it from this period. We therefore need to have better cost control, and we need to assess several projects in the light of technological developments. But Ferjefrei E39 is still a building and labour market-enhancing project in the West, just as the intercity project is in the Austland, and for the government it stands at hand.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e1293	I have to say that now it's probably almost just the council and the government's sail that doesn't put any question mark on the Free E39. Research institutions and agencies under the Council of State are now beginning to ask these questions more frequently and more frequently. Even New Veier AS, by all means, has come up with tough and strong criticism of investigations by the State Road Service around the Møreaksen. Then we have the regional head of Kjetil Strand in Vegvesenet, who says they agree with New Ways that the world has changed in several areas since the concept selection investigation was made. New orders from the Ministry of Transport now require the State Road Administration to make new assessments of E39 Ålesund-Molde. I guess it has to be because this regional manager says it. Does this not mean that the attitude of the Council of State and Government is now, because as far as possible is mature for reassessment in terms of obtaining frequent zero-emission journeys as a fully realistic alternative?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e1302	In the transport sector, we will reduce emissions significantly by 2030, but I already have SV through my previous answer shown on the wrong track. If an actual reduces greenhouse gas emissions by replacing today's holiday solutions with vacation-free options, SV will still scrap the zero-free options. It's a blank track, and I don't intend to go in on that blank track. We work all the time to optimise projects, get cost control, find new technological solutions that reduce both the emissions and the costs of investment in infrastructure projects. We have to review all the time, and that is why I have ordered it from all the strange companies in connection with a new national transport plan. SV starts this by concluding, simply because they don't want to spend money building roads in the West – they're going to spend the money on trains in the Austland.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e1311	I have to say that this is simple demagoguery, and the council must know that I want to spend money on my way to the West. I want to fix, fix, get the middle parts, have the yellow middle stripe, and I want to bet on the way between the ferries. This is what the Council of State knows very well. He knows that. Murder research has found that there is little likelihood that the Mortar axis will significantly contribute to the creation of this common housing and labour market between, for example: Eelsund and Molde. So that argument doesn't hold up at all. There are several other environments, including: the research environment at SINTEF in Trondheim, which has constantly been concerned that frequent zero-emission ferries should be among the alternatives to be explored when these major fjord crossings were to be investigated. But no, it was voted down here in Stortinget. The state road service has then taken some initiative, and I am waiting very eagerly for the report that comes in a few days. In light of this, it will be exciting to ask the Council of State again in a very short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e1320	It is amazing to right that SV criticises decisions at the KU level that were made in 2011, when SV put in government and was responsible for the decisions taken. What happened then was not that a vacation option failed, but that the government update option was rejected in favour of the free options. It's not the world that changes; it's the SV that will jump from their commitments to build the West closer together. It's great to be right on SV, which means that the intercity development in Austland is important, and it's them, because they're region-enlarged, because it gives a commuter distance of one hour between cities, while a commuter distance of one hour, for example. entering Bergen in Sunnhordaland, not Magnifying region in the same way. There is a logic not going up. SV has been revealed and has been revealed again and again. So the government is determined by the priorities we've done before.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e1330	‘In a press release from the Ministry of Defence on 20 September, it appears that Norway will enter the European defence cooperation EI2 from the same date. What is the background for this not being presented to the Stortinget for treatment as a matter of its own before accession?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e1337	EI2, which is responsible for the European Intervention Initiative, is a non-binding intergovernmental defence cooperation between twelve non-EU countries. Cooperation is flexible and pragmatic, with the participating countries themselves choosing which parts of the initiative they will contribute to and participate in. The initiative is based on existing resources in the participating countries and has no dedicated military forces of its own. The government has informed Stortinget about this initiative and about our ambition for Norway to participate in this cooperation. I consulted the appropriate forum in Stortinget on this matter on 12 February this year. The government then informed the Stortinget that the government aims at Norway following close allies and partner countries and taking part in EI2 cooperation. Given the clear non-binding nature of this cooperation, it is within the mandate of the government to manage participation in this initiative. If it were to become relevant that EI2 would play a role in concrete strength contributions in the future, it would be dealt with in the Stortinget in an ordinary way. At the Minister of Defence meeting in EI2 format in the Netherlands on 20 September, Norway, together with Sweden, was listed as a new Member State. I see this as very positive. It is in our interest that European countries strengthen their ability to respond to security challenges in a faster and more coordinated way. The aim of EI2 is to improve the ability of European countries to react rapidly in the event of a crisis and to cooperate more closely on crisis and military efforts. EI2 shall complement and strengthen existing defence cooperation, not compete or overlap with it. EI2 cooperation involves both EU and non-EU countries and countries from both northern and southern Europe. For us, it has been an important point that, as members of Finland, Denmark, Sweden and Norway, it is a cooperation that also provides a good opportunity to provide a clear Nordic profile. EI2 aims at becoming a defence and security cooperation that could help complement other European cooperation initiatives. From the Norwegian side, it would be politically attractive to participate in a substantial European cooperation on defence and security that is outside the EU framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e1352	I thank you for your answer. It's boundless naive to imagine that this should only work as a cos club. This initiative originates from France and the President of France. Macron has expressed a clear desire to build a European army – competing structures with NATO and other existing structures. Yesterday, a professional-military council was presented to show that we in Norway do not have a defence that is currently rusted for the future. There's a need to spend $10 billion in the years ahead. At the same time, we need to strengthen our cooperation with key alliance partners in NATO. Why does the government think it makes sense, without there having been a wide-ranging treatment in the Storting of the case, to join us in new, competing initiatives?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e1361	Here you might have to ask for a slightly higher level of precision in your assessment. This is not a competing initiative, I have just explained it. It is an additional initiative. We are very pleased with NATO cooperation, and the debate around NATO has also been marked by the need for the European countries to take a greater share of responsibility. This is not a European army. This is a forum to try to be forward-looking on crisis management, see how European countries can better cooperate on crises. There are countries within NATO, outside NATO, within the EU Union and outside the European Union. There is nothing in this initiative that goes beyond the commitment we have to the Defence – on the contrary. The 12.7 billion we have increased the defence budgets since we came into government will also fit into this initiative. The long-term plan we are now in, says that we should seek better allied cooperation. This initiative fits as hand in hand to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e1366	Norway’s commitments through NATO, the commitments of the European countries through NATO, are firstly to arm its defences for the future, to strengthen its defences, which the government has not adequately contributed to, among other things. by deprioritising the country's power, which is clearly highlighted by the trade-union council that was presented yesterday. What NATO is also concerned about is not creating new and competing structures. What one agrees with here is a European intervention initiative, which includes, among other things: high military level shall have strategic discussions, regular meetings. It is also necessary, as it says, to strengthen the capacity of EI2 participants to respond to future threats and crises. It is said that this can happen within the framework of NATO, that it can happen within the framework of the EU, and that it can happen through other coalitions. Why not build on what has been a Norwegian tradition, strengthen Norwegian defence and ensure alliance commitments through NATO? And if changes are to take place, why has it not been provided for wide-ranging debate in the Grand Duchy, the country's legislative assembly?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e1375	The representative used in his introductory question the term ‘naïve’. I thought I would interrogate it, but it is in place to take it when I now comment on what the representative comes with. We're in many constellations that go outside the NATO countries. The coalition against ISIS consists of 70 countries and four international organisations. The new crisis picture is actually that there will be crises that are not suitable for just NATO to solve. We use military power where it may be necessary, but we use humanitarian organisations, we use justice, we use the European Union where it can be done, and we use cooperation models between equal and allied countries to solve the problems. It's actually not that NATO can solve everything. NATO is a military defence alliance – we are members – it is very successful, and the commitment we have made to Defence and the long-term plan has strengthened both the defence of Norway and our position in NATO. But we have to do more.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e1382	We go to question 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e1391	This question, from the representative of Bersvend Salbu to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, has been transferred to the Minister for Climate and Environment as the right one. The question will be answered by the Minister for Research and Higher Education on behalf of the Minister for Climate and Environment, who has been removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e1398	I am glad that I get an answer from the Council of State, Nybø, when the municipal minister could not be present. "The world needs a radical and fair environmental transition, we need a green, new deal. Climate change must take place at all levels of society, both in business, public and individual. The municipalities are important in this work, and the will is high. What kind of plan does the government have for the municipalities to be able to achieve the objectives of including and cutting greenhouse gas emissions by 45 pst? by 2030?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e1407	The government, as I understand it, has also been mentioned earlier today, will draw up a plan to meet Norway's climate commitments by 45 p.m. national reduction in the non-quota sector when a joint fulfilment agreement with the EU is in place. The main instruments of Norwegian climate policy are general nationwide instruments, with the aim of increasing the cost of pollution and making environmentally friendly choices, both for people and for business. In local climate work, municipalities play a very central role. The role of municipalities as planning authorities is particularly important, and it is essential that the state and the municipalities play on the ground. State planning guidelines for coordinated housing, land and transport planning focus on a pattern of development that reduces the need for transport and builds up nodes for public transport. Urban growth agreements also ensure good coordination of land and transport planning in metropolitan areas, while at the same time contributing money to the development of large and important urban collective projects. State planning guidelines for climate and energy planning and adaptation follow the encouragement and contribution of municipalities and county municipalities to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions as well as increased environmentally friendly energy conversion. In order to facilitate the planning of municipalities, the Environment Directorate has, among others: compiled statistics on greenhouse gas emissions at local level and a calculation tool to help municipalities to calculate easily the impact of local climate action. The Government has also established the Climate Action Grant Scheme, where municipalities can apply for support for climate action. So far there is a commitment of 628 million. SEK to 951 projects. Municipalities are also important purchasers. In order to contribute to climate-friendly public procurement, the government is now preparing an action plan for green procurement, and it is proposed in the 2020 budget to set aside 5 million. kr for this work. The government is committed to strengthening local and regional climate work. In order to achieve climate objectives, both the State and the municipalities need to do even more. We see that several municipalities set ambitious targets. The government will continue to support the municipalities and help to enable them to find good solutions locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e1426	Thank you for your answer. Municipalities have tight budgets and shall be a development actor. They have a thousand statutory and non-statutory tasks. But I feel that they are very offensive. Climate plans, environmental plans and climate budgets have been created, but there are people who are following. Now it's serious, it has to happen fast. How to stimulate the rest of the municipalities, those who do not have such climate plans and climate budgets, to do so?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e1431	I thank you for a good follow-up question. I fully agree that the work done in the municipalities is important. It is important that municipalities take their share of responsibility, just as the state and the regions have to take their share of responsibility. I also feel that the climate and environment in this election campaign have been put on the agenda in a different way than before. There are many new elected people who in these days constitute local government and city government out there in the whole country. I have both hopes and expectations that it will give a new boost to the work that is so important that the municipalities contribute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e1438	Yeah, that's good, and it's a big commitment. We experience innovation and will. The municipalities are often the largest businesses very many places, so there is a lot of competence and drive in them. Those are the ones that have to go ahead. Being able to test out new technologies and new solutions and really being innovative I think is very important. Climate change funds have been mentioned here, and they have been good. But it's a little sad that they – now that it's really serious – are cut by almost 20 million. kr in year. Last year, aid was requested for projects worth 500 million. NOK 200 million of a pot. kr. It's a lot of money, but it's serious, so we have to do it now. Why is it cut in climate change funds this year?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e1447	The climate rate, which was mentioned here, has pledged 628 million since 2016. kr to 951 projects across the country. A lot of applications have been made. More than 1,580 applications have been received between 2016 and 2019, so these are popular funds to apply for. There is also a lot of other important things happening in the municipalities. The electric car bet is a good example. It's an important example also locally. When 45 pst. the sale of new cars so far this year is electric cars, it contributes to cleaner air and better climate in municipalities. I am also concerned about the support schemes through Enova, which the municipalities can also use. It's not just the municipalities out there that are important, it's also important to get business involved, because it's together we can manage to achieve the climate goals we've set ourselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e1456	Then we move on to question 11.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e1464	This question, from the representative Lars Haltbrecken of the Minister for Climate and Environment, is answered by the Minister for Research and Higher Education on behalf of the Minister for Climate and Environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e1469	"Our world needs a radical and fair environmental transition in all areas, we need a "green, new deal". Climate change emissions in Norway rose in 2018, according to the latest SSB figures. This means that in the next few years we have to cut even more annually if we're going to be able to reach 45 pst. Cut in 2030. We're postponing the necessary climate cuts, which means that in the next few years we'll have to cut more in a shorter time. Can the Council of State explain how much extra we have to cut the years that are coming, because it was not cut in 2018?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e1476	Climate change, loss of nature and pollution of the seas are the three major environmental challenges of our time. Science is ready: We have a bad time. The world’s country needs to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, take better care of nature and create a circular economy within the natural limit of tolerance. Therefore, this government has set ambitious Norwegian climate targets and is pursuing offensive climate and environmental policies. The results are clear: 44.7 pst. electric from January to September, compared with 5.5 pst. in 2013. Six years ago, emissions from new passenger cars in Norway were at EU level. Today, emissions from new cars in Norway are more than 40 pst. in the EU. We are world leaders in developing and using zero- and low-emission ferries. Such solutions are absolutely essential for the transition to a low-carbon society. The climate challenge is global and can only be addressed through global cooperation. The government will undertake to cooperate with the EU in meeting our climate objective by 40 p.m. Cut by 2030. In the case of non-quota emissions, we will receive annual emission budgets for the period 2021-2030. Norway will face sanctions if we do not fulfil our obligations. Norway must also cut its own emissions. We have started the study on Climate Change 2030, which will investigate measures and instruments that can trigger at least 50 pst. reduction in non-quota emissions by 2030. The Government will draw up a plan to meet Norway’s climate commitments by at least 45 pst. domestic reduction in the non-quota sector by 2030. Solving the climate challenge requires cooperation and action both locally, nationally and internationally. This government takes its share of responsibility, both at home and internationally. Looking at year-on-year emissions does not provide a basis for concluding that additional cuts need to be made in the coming years. But this government is going to implement cuts throughout the period up to 2030, which leads us to achieve the goals that we have set ourselves. We have committed ourselves to that in the agreement with the European Union. This government has already implemented policies that we see yield results, which will provide further emission reductions in the future, among others. The Commission will be presenting a proposal for a Directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the labelling of medicinal products for human use.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e1493	I thank you for the answer, and I note that the government is still satisfied with its climate policy despite not reaching the climate goals set by the Stortinget for 2020. The Council of State mentions the agreement with the EU, and I want to ask a question about it. For the purpose of the agreement on climate change Norway is to join the EU, it opens up to deploy CO2 allowances equivalent to 6 million tonnes from the quota sector and to transfer them to the non-quota sector. Norway must decide, before the new year, whether or not this possibility to ask other countries to do the job for us should be used. There is nothing in the submitted state budget as to whether the government will use this opportunity, and my question is then: Will the government use this opportunity, and when will the matter be referred to the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e1500	That's a good question, and I thank you for that. I would assume that the state council Ola Elvestuen will come back to Stortinget with an answer to that when the government is ready for it. I would recommend to the representative to send a written question to get an answer from Ola on the specific question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e1507	I will somehow take advantage of the invitation from the Council of State to ask the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment. But let me go back to the first answer of the Council of State, where she correctly points to the success that Norway has had in developing and using electric ferries. This came as a result of a decision in Stortinget for some years back, where SV and Left together were required to require municipalities, county councils and the State to require low or zero emission technologies when tenders for ferry services were announced. Now we see a massive development in electric aircraft, however much of the production can also come in Norway. We see that Rolls-Royce, who has a battery factory in Trondheim, is betting on it. Will the Council of State and the Government agree to ensure that we require the use of zero-emission aircraft in the future also in order to get that market going?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e1514	Thank you again for a good question. The development of new technologies is also an exciting field in what is my constitutional responsibility, what is going on in research and development. There's a lot of good people working on this case. I fully agree with the representative that the success we have had with, for example. The electric car has been the result of the policy we have adopted, which we have a push. I believe that this is also important to continue in the field of electric car policy, but also in the case of new technologies that give us new opportunities, for example. in aviation and aircraft. I heard Ola Elvestuen say yesterday that this was the greenest budget in history, and it had to be, but it must also be all future budgets if we are to achieve the objectives we have set ourselves. We have to keep our visions and keep delivering in the years that are coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e1526	"Our world needs a radical environmental transformation, we need a "green, new deal." The green shift in Norway demands the greatest change in skills of the time. The competence of the future must be about how we support industries that are necessary for the zero-emission society and how we use the expertise of the oil industry today. How does the government’s competence policy facilitate our transition to the necessary transition in Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e1533	Thank you for a good question. It's a big task we're facing, not least in the university and higher education sectors, too much of the knowledge we're going to have in the future – the new knowledge that we all have to acquire – is just to be provided by our universities and colleges. The government has the ambition that we all learn all our lives. The time when you started the studies when you were 19, you were finished when you were 25, and you continued in one job, is over. We all need to learn new things. It presents a huge challenge for our colleges and universities, which also have to change and in many ways deliver exactly what the representative Fagerås wants. To go into some of the things we're doing now and into this state budget, we have, among other things. 75 study places to be built up over four years – four times as many – within technology and green shifts. We have given 100 study places that are also to be built over four years – and thus there will be 400 study places – to the Diku Directorate. There we also have to focus on health technology and the green shift. These are places of study that could be offered throughout the country where people live, and where there are not regular places of study today. In addition, we provide money to contribute to higher education being more accessible outside the campus, and to flexible provision of further education aimed at precisely digitising and ensuring ICT security and the green shift. To other universities, the University of Bergen has taken the initiative of setting up a committee to implement the sustainability objectives of education. It's a pretty big job, but it's an important job, which they're doing well, and I'm happy to see some results of this in the new year, when they're going to present what they're working on. We also presented a long-term plan for research and higher education last year about this time, where climate-friendly and environmentally friendly energy is one of the five long-term priorities. It shows from the government that this is one of the fields that we have to raise in a decade's perspective, and it's precisely because it's so important for the time we go into, that universities and colleges also allocate their resources and resources to what is then one of the five long-term priorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e1546	Norway has a unique opportunity to develop a non-CO 2 society at home and to contribute significantly to a comprehensive global decarbonisation. To achieve this, of course, research should have been a budget win. Instead, the opposite happens. The share of GDP in research and innovation is falling from 1.06 pst. in 2019 to 1,03 pst. in 2020. Since 2017, the proportion has fallen from 1.09 pst. There is no sign of a green shift in the overall research and development effort in the areas of the environment and energy. On the contrary, the Indicator Report, published by the Research Council, states that the research environment in petroleum-related research is three to four times that of renewable energy. How does the Council of State think we should get a green shift without a big effort on renewable research?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e1556	It's true, as the representative says, that there's a slight drop in the proportion that goes to research, but yet I'm going to say that research comes out very well in this budget. It's the fifth year in a row that we're over 1 pst. GDP. Since 2013, we've published 12 billion. kr more for research and development. These are important means, because research is also involved in that transformation and helps us to move our country forward. One of the reasons why we have a decline in research this year is, among other things: cut in petroleum research. We also have a one-year cut in the Research Council, but it's cut in the reserves, and it won't affect the activity in the coming year. But it will have cut in petroleum research.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e1563	In addition to the cut, which Iselin Nybø admitted, the headlines of Monday’s presentation of the state budget were that this would lead to a furoring of research. It was a whole higher education and university sector that reported it. So in addition, the universities and colleges for the sixth year in a row will be the victims of flat cheese needs. The total efficiency reductions are now close to 1.3 billion. kr. The university and higher education sectors are alarming because they see that the government's constant budget cuts are affecting both research and education. The government is using an increasingly small proportion of society's resources to address the major societal challenges. That's why I react when the government councils in the media describe this as ‘efficiencies’. How can the Council of State be sure that these cuts do not exceed the capacities of research in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e1570	I totally disagree with the presentation by the representative of Fagerås here. First of all, I disagree with the description that it's a rage. Secondly, I think it is much more nuanced than that there is a whole sector behind it. There were also several who expressed that this was a good budget. Among other things, NTNU, our largest university, was satisfied with the budget. There has been a formidable increase in research efforts during this government. Many people notice, and many are happy. The efficiency cut that has been is a little over 1 billion. During the same period, these universities and higher education institutions have also received transfers of more than 200 billion. kr. So there's something about seeing this in a perspective. I understand that cutting is always difficult, but despite this ABE reform, our universities and colleges have a real rise in this budget as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e1580	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘In his answer to my written question about the number of car fires and how many have been resolved, the Minister of Justice replied on 5 September that: ‘With the time available, it has not been possible to obtain information on the number of cases and perpetrators.’ On my question 14 November 2018 about the same, the number of car fires detected, until the then Minister of Justice also said: ‘This is more a question that within a short period of time it was not possible.’ Since my last question about this has unfortunately been more car fires in Oslo, last night until 30 September, when five cars burned on the Wolf. The police suspect that these were lit, like 123 of the car fires in Oslo from 2017 to 1 April 2019. Can the Council of State and the Ministry, when almost one year has passed since the question was first raised, answer whether any car fires have been solved and the perpetrators are convicted?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e1590	Thank you, Mr Bøhler, for your question. Entrepreneurs are a criminal act that must be taken seriously. It is about respect for other people's property, but also about security in the neighbourhood. The cases referred to by the representative are in Oslo, and Oslo police districts initially divide car fires into three categories: technical reasons, fires are applied, or there is consequential damage after another car or storage place, e.g. a garage, burner. The number of registered car fires in Oslo police district was totaled at around 100 per year from 2013 to 2015 – slightly lower in 2016. In 2017 and 2018 the figure has been higher, and in 2018 there were a total of 186 registered car fires. There are no separate statistical groups for car fires in the police criminal record, and therefore there may be some different practices over the years on how to register them. What is interesting for the representative, Bøhler and for me, are the car fires that are supposed to be on. This has been steady for many years now, it's between 40 and 50 a year. The lowest number was in 2016, with 32, and the highest in 2017, with 62. In 2018, when there were 186 car fires, the number assumed was 53. The fires in question are divided into several subcategories: damage works, insurance fraud and ignition of cars as part of threats in criminal environments. However, this is not a formal breakdown. What the police are telling me is that it is quite challenging to clean up auto-fired vehicles. It is simply because it is difficult to find decisive technical evidence if a car has been burned out, and it is rare that the police have cases where technical evidence can link a specific perpetrator to the site. As a result, most of the cases are probably closed because of an unknown perpetrator. However, the police district has underlined that a great deal of time and resources are spent on the site investigation, the collection of witness evidence and the traceability of technical investigations. I have also been informed by the police department that an overview of car burns where the case has been resolved and the perpetrator has been convicted is not available.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e1606	Oslo police districts have already taken action to increase the percentage of information on these types of cases. In a new organisational model in the police district, the investigation of car fires will be added to local units, in order to create a closeness to the environment and local knowledge, as local knowledge will be very important for resolving these issues. I would like to say in my dialogue with the police district that this is an important area, because this will probably also be part of the fight against juvenile crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e1609	I thank you for an interesting reply from the Minister of Justice. I have to say that I think it is intended to hear that the police cannot yet say that they have clarified and condemned in some of these car fires, because it is clear that it poses a danger that it may increase to an extent, especially among criminals who use it as a method of revenge or threatening people who owe them money or other things. It may increase to an extent if it is perceived as risk-free. I just want to say that what is common to many of the cases – I've been following them in recent years – is that someone has been seen running from the place e.l. It also happened yesterday evening, at Grorud, where there were people who threw something at the cars. It is in certain areas of the city, and some have seen several car fires for a short period of time in exposed areas. So my question to the Council of State is whether he is satisfied with the results, and whether he believes this is a high priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e1616	First, I would like to stress that when there is no specific case, it is a matter of having to go through the judgements manually, because it may well be that this is the case, for example. persons who have been convicted in another case, and this is part of the main part of a car fire. So we cannot rule out that there is someone who has been convicted of car fire, but we simply have to go through it manually. But I agree with Mr Bøhler's description, that it is important to give a signal out front that it is not free, because I share the concern that the representative of Bøhler has that if it becomes clear, it can be perceived in a way that makes it more of that. At the same time, we also have to assume that the number in Oslo is actually quite low, and fortunately low compared to a number of other Scandinavian cities. As an example, 90 cars were installed in Gothenburg only in one evening, while the figure for the whole of 2017, which was the year with the highest figure, was 62 in Oslo during an entire year.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e1621	I also thank you for that answer. Of course, it's a much bigger problem in other cities, but I want to say that in the areas where you've had more car fires this year alone, this is a close problem, because it's not the average in the city that counts here, but it's how many car fires there have been in those and the places where we have problems with juvenile criminal environments, nightlife environments, etc. So that's what I think you should focus on, and not on average numbers. I know that the police are working on an investigation promise as part of the police reform, and the methods that the police have when they really prioritize a case are impressive, and they solve a lot. They use informant processing where they know the environments that can operate this, they use cameras, not just on site, but around the traffic scene in the area, and they're looking for witnesses. So my question to the Council of State is, has he gone into something and asked the police to explain what research methods you put in, if you're going to give priority to this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e1628	What we've done is that we've strengthened the police's ability to investigate youth and gang crime. We've strengthened it by 50 million. DKK in the last year's budget, of which 24 million. kr went to the police. This year, this has gone on with 37 million. To the police. This is mainly going to the Oslo Police Department. It is clear that the way to investigate these matters is likely to be interesting. In particular, if this proves to be related to e.g.: juvenile delinquency, you probably need to invest more resources into it. So there's a reason to stress that that's exactly why the Oslo Police now want to have a little more local investigation, because you can put it in connection with other local events. It is the police investigators who work in those districts – to the extent that you have districts in Oslo, you have it in the police’s context – who have to investigate the matter, because it is those who are supposed to have the most local knowledge, and thus to have the greatest opportunity for clarification.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e1633	Case No. Two, regular question time, please.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-09.ana.ud306e1647	There is no record available. So the map is ready for today. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? No one has asked for the floor, and the meeting has been cancelled.
