ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e62	The following called alternates are now taking their seat: For Oslo: Zaineb Al-Samarai and Marian Hussein For the Province of Rogaland: Julia Wong The Workers' Group's Group has submitted an application for welfare leave to the representative Lene Vågslid on Thursday, 13 June from 1 p.m. 15th This application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The sales representative, Christian Thinning Bjørnø, is proposed to meet during the leave period. – It is also considered to be adopted. The representative, Anette Trettebergstuen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e90	On behalf of the representatives of Mr Kjerkol, Mr Gahr Støre, Mr Henriksen, Mr Giske, Mr Tajik, Mr Tuva Moflag and myself, I would like to make a proposal to strengthen the LHBTI policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e95	The representative, Ms Sangtarash, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e100	On behalf of the representatives Freddy André Øvstegård, Solveig Schaugvoll Foss, Solfrid Lerbreck and myself, I would like to make a proposal for a representative to ensure alternative treatment for trans-persons.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e105	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e125	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It is deemed to have been adopted
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e134	Working on both the reindeer notification and Prop. 90 L for 2018–2019, which we now have to deal with, extensive consultations have been carried out with Sametinget and the Norwegian Rein driftssamers Landsförbund. Although no consensus has been reached, important input has been made that the Ministry has taken into account in its work on the proposition. Following a good dialogue during the last round of consultations, the Sametinget has decided to appoint its three members to the Rein driftstyrelsen. The Ministry has then concluded that it is not necessary to propose to amend Section 71 of the Act, as one assessed at the start of work on the proposition. With regard to the purpose paragraph of the Act, the Government has also concluded that no changes should be made now, but that changes are subject to further consideration of the sustainability issue in the purpose paragraph. A process has been set up in which a working group will develop criteria for the three sustainability objectives, where both the Sameting and the NRL have been invited to appoint members of the working group and to record their mandate. However, the government made proposals to amend Act § 18 on the making available of reindeer figures. In the proposition, the Ministry stresses the importance of actual knowledge of each other's figures; it is necessary information to create better trust and cooperation in reindeer management. Nevertheless, it is clarified that the making available of a pure figure is to be regulated by a regulation and that the making available shall only apply to the siding and not to the individual reindeer in the siding. At the hearings held during the preparation and presentation of Prop. 90 L, there have been strong objections to introducing mandatory individual labelling of pure in addition to the traditional marking of earpieces. Government parties stress in their comments in the Committee opinion that they recognise the cultural importance of traditional ear tags with individual personal patterns in the reindeer industry and will facilitate the continuation of this tradition even after the introduction of a new system for mandatory individual labelling of pure. However, the majority of the Committee points out that the proposal to introduce mandatory individual labelling intends to contribute to more precise and less resource-intensive reintegrations, both for the administration and for the industry itself. Individual labelling will also enable more targeted breeding work, easier reporting and slaughtering, as well as good management of grazing resources. At the same time, individual labelling could contribute to significant simplifications and increased security in grant management as well as evidence of loss of clean to, inter alia, Roof game. The majority also indicate that a regulation is to be drawn up to clarify the type, design and nature of the information to be contained in the marks. New consultations will be held with the Sametinget and NRL in the work on the regulation, and various aspects of individual labelling will be carefully assessed in close dialogue with the reindeer industry, in order to arrive at good and practical solutions that are appropriate and well-suited for animal welfare.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e155	Purification is important for Sami culture and important for Norway. The Labour Party has for a long time promoted its view that we now need a comprehensive revision of the redeployment Act. We think it's just getting more and more clear that it's a good solution when we get up these kinds of things that we're dealing with today, like the individualization of pure. A number of elements have been included in the consultation, as pointed out by the rapporteur, which should be carefully assessed, including: towards the cultural aspect of the industry. Therefore, the Workers' Party believes that it would be wise to look at this in a comprehensive revision of the Reinfirms Act, so that we do not take matters apart and divided, but can see this in a larger context. We hope that we can bring with us the Storting and gather about the position for a good further treatment for an industry that is important for Sami culture. I address the proposal of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e164	The representative of Nils Kristen Sandrøen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e169	Now that we're dealing with this case, Prop. 90 L for 2018–2019, it is based on the Stortinget treatment of Melding. St. 32 for 2016–2017, Rein drift – Long tradition – unique opportunities. The basis was laid for the government to return to Stortinget with changes in the law. Now the government did not choose to do anything with the purpose paragraph that ecological sustainability should be given priority, nor § 71, about the appointment of the reindeer management board. The purpose of introducing mandatory individual labelling is to contribute to a more precise and less resource-intensive census, both for the administration and for the industry itself. Individual labelling will also enable more targeted breeding work, easier reporting and slaughtering, as well as good management of grazing resources. At the same time, individual labelling could contribute to significant simplifications and increased security in grant management as well as evidence of loss of clean to, inter alia, Roof game. There is a constant development in how such chips can be designed, and it is in our treatment set up for the subsequent implementation of this provision, in order to get the regulation in place at the same time as developing chips if today's chips are not satisfactory. Indication whether this could be determined in the work on the regulations. Today, when we adopt mandatory individual labelling, we have an understanding of the cultural importance of traditional ear tags with individual personal patterns that are in the reindeer industry. This was emphatically underlined in the Committee's open consultation and in my own meetings with the industry. The majority are therefore concerned that this individual labelling should be added to the traditional earpiece labelling and that this is not a prohibition on traditional labelling. It is now up to the Ministry, in close cooperation with the industry, to find good solutions for how this is to be done in a way that creates problems for traditional labelling as little as possible. Finally, I would like to encourage everyone involved in the design of the regulations and also in the development of new technologies in the area of the chip to contribute constructively to that work. I would very much like to contribute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e184	Purification is one of the most important Sami cultural carriers and is important to maintain, both in terms of ecological and – not least – economic sustainability. Norwegian reindeer farming operates on an approximate constant area, where it is important that the total number of pure farms is adapted to the grazing basis. There is a shortage of grazing resources, and good management is required to maintain good weight on animals and good animal welfare. It is that an industry must be economically viable to survive over time. It is therefore important that the reindeer industry continues to focus on the market, adapted to modern times. The government is working to facilitate a reindeer industry that is both sustainable and more economically profitable, while respecting the cultural aspects of reindeer management. In the setting, we support the publication of the percentage of the page. The counter-argument that there is no tradition of disclosing a number does not hold, because it is not a single performer's figure to be published, but the number of pure in the side portion. Nor shall the number be published outside the industry. I believe this is an important measure for cleaners to plan their operations better. It will also promote confidence and cooperation within the industry. For example, uncertainties around this may lead to a reindeer keeping herds larger than necessary ‘for safety’. We also support the proposal for the introduction of mandatory individual labelling of pure. This does not mean that the traditional marking, the earpiece, shall be prohibited – on the contrary. For the first time, traditional ear tagging is required to be incorporated into the law. This labelling is of great cultural importance in reindeer management. But it is important to turn the industry into a business adapted to modern requirements. Individual labelling will provide more precise and less resource-intensive censuses, better breeding, easier reporting and slaughtering, and better management of grazing resources. Individual labelling will also lead to more security in grant management and provide better evidence of loss of purity to, inter alia, Roof game. There are concerns about the type of brand and the costs associated with this marking. It is therefore important that the Ministry engages in dialogue with the industry in order to find the best solutions for the preparation of the regulation. I believe that a simple chip under the skin will be appropriate; it will not conflict with the traditional ear tagging. Many people point out that this is going to be expensive. One possibility is that the reindeer do this on their own and that they will be able to do it at the same time as the traditional ear tagging. When the clean meat is slaughtered, the slaughterhouses scan the clean meat, confirm ownership and return the chips to the owner, who may re-use them. It gets costs down. A chip will also remove the problem of clean on the way to the slaughterhouse by registering the reindeer on the right owner.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e199	The centre party believes that the proposal for mandatory individual marking is not sufficiently settled to be agreed. Impacts on animal welfare, additional work and costs of equipment, plant and infrastructure have not been addressed. Nor have any professional arrangements been made for the consequences of reindustrial Sámi cultural practice. The marking methods for Sami reindeering mean the Center Party lies within the self-right of the indigenous peoples. Purity is exercised over large areas and under varying and extreme temperature and weather conditions. Data security management system for such a digital system is not in place and there are currently no computer networks and power availability in fields where this work is being done. Purification must be secured to arrangements that secure the livelihood and ownership of their property. A technological solution to the eternal eartags of today will make the industry vulnerable to external influence. For this reason, the Centre Party cannot support the change in Section 33, and we refer to the traditional system being designed through generations and being functional. With the legislation of today and the rules of use that are now in place, the need for cleaning will be reduced. The center party thinks the system of today works well according to the need, where ear brands are engaged for counting. Simplification of counting operations carried out for a few years does not provide the Centre Party with sufficient reason for this intervention in one of the most central areas of reindeer-samian culture. The simplification mentioned is also a claim that has not been settled for what will involve in practice. Breeding and sustainable use of grazing resources have the best competence of reindeer through their experience-based knowledge, inherited for generations. The professional competence of reindeer operations shall be recognised, and the strong resistance generated during the hearing shows that the industry does not consider this to be the case. On the other hand, the sewerage industry and the Sameting see the legislative amendment as a threat to the intention to preserve the peculiarity of the reindeer. The central part will focus on the clear resistance that emerged during the hearing, not only from the industry itself, but also from the executive bodies that have spoken out. This means the Center Party shows that the matter has to be handled more thoroughly before a change in the law can possibly be evaluated.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e212	The proposal to impose individual marking is a direct result of the government and government party notifying through the reindeer notification, so this is what we knew would come. But there's something strange about this whole thing. One would like to introduce and impose an individualisation of two aspects. One is a control — better control — and the other is a kind of nutrition argument, that this would be a good idea for nutrition. It can be compared with the fact that one goes into the farming industry and imposes a particular feeding system that the whole industry is against, which all actors are against imposing, but that one from the offices thinks that this must be done, because it is good for the farming industry and the aquaculture industry. There is massive resistance to mandatory individual labelling in the reindeer industry itself. There is also resistance from the Sameting. However, choose one to do this. This is an industry in which new technologies are introduced continuously, an industry in which one uses, among other things. drones as technology for monitoring the flocks. But you're against applying this in this industry. Path Rune Smuk, a member of the Rákkonjárga Rebite District, has set up a test project with a chip system in place. Experience has been mixed, but they are developing systems to channel the reindeer in such a way that you can use a hand scanner to register the reindeer running through. According to him, the technology is potentially reinventing more control over the flock, and if the technology is developed further, as he is doing, the potential to separate out the sims that rarely have calf, and the sims that have calf every year. It may be useful for cleaners to separate slaughterhouses in such a way. But here the industry itself is developing this kind of technology. Beautiful is that this must be imposed, because this must come from the industry itself. Where the control trail is concerned, no distribution has been made in this area, which means that this will improve the control of the industry. There's only one idea that it'll do it. So it's not going to get away from that for co-workers who run reindeer, and for the reindeer industry itself, this is going to be perceived as an overtramp that keeps going. So SV of course goes against this bill and will urge everyone else to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e225	Together are the indigenous peoples of Norway, and we have special obligations to maintain and strengthen Sami language and culture. Purification is an important Sami primary industry that exploits marginal natural resources on a mountain and a wide scale. The left sees it as ensuring the areas of reindeer management for the future and maintaining the cultural aspect of operations. Purgatory is a basic pillar of the Sami tradition, and that's why it's important for the industry, because it embraces more than just food tradition. It's also important because it gives us good, nutritious food. With regard to the discussion about the introduction of mandatory individual labelling and the making available of internal clean-up in the industry, the government believes that this will be a simplification and provide a faster slaughter settlement for reindeer owners, as has been said earlier. It will help to simplify and streamline the re-counting significantly and ensure safe food of known origin for consumers. We understand that this kind of individual marking is new to the industry, and we don't want it to ruin the traditional marking with an earpiece. It is important that the cultural elements of the traditional labelling consist, and the traditional earpiece reindeer marking is a cornerstone of the Sami reindeer operation. That's what the first kids get from their parents, and it connects man to the clean. The reindeer marking is personal, tells about kinship and belonging, and it is thus a cultural bearer in itself. We are therefore concerned that the regulation on individual labelling is drawn up in consultation with the industry to find the best solutions, so that the mandatory labelling of individuals does not interfere with the cultural aspect of the traditional reindeer label. Since mandatory individual labelling has an economic cost, I think it is natural to invite the industry to dialogue on a solution for this in the annual negotiations on the reindeer management agreement. In the Granavolden platform, it is stated that, in terms of ecological sustainability, priority should be given to the objectives of the reindeer management law. We have recorded that it has been perceived that the government will weaken the cultural and economic sustainability. That's definitely not the intention.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e238	The majority today has two amendments to the redeployment Act. The first concerns the making available of internal cleanness in industry and the second mandatory individual labelling of pure. The proposals have their background in Message. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. In the Communication, there was also a proposal to change the purpose paragraph of Section 1 of the Reinholding Act, where ecological sustainability was to be prioritised. In this regard, there has been no downgrading of the other two sustainability objectives – economic and cultural sustainability – but in the light of the consultations we had with the Sometinget and the Norwegian Rein driftssamers Landsbund at the very end of the project work, the government found that a proposal to amend the purpose section should not be promoted, but could be assessed later when the question of sustainability targets has been further assessed. With regard to the making available of in-house numbers in the industry, this has encountered resistance in the hearing, but I believe that the proposal is well-founded. In some reindeer districts, practitioners have an overview of the scale of the side shares. However, it is not in the system, and it is in other words random to the extent to which the practitioners possess such knowledge. The proposal shall ensure that the side portion and the side — or district — can have direct access to the scale of the individual side portion. This will provide predictability and not least secure framework conditions and will ensure ecological sustainability. With regard to the proposal for mandatory individual labelling of reindeer, it has also encountered resistance, both during consultations and during the hearing. I am convinced, for my part, that individual labelling is forward-looking. It will contribute to more precise and less resource-intensive recovery for both management and industry itself. Furthermore, individual labelling will allow for more targeted breeding work as well as easier reporting and slaughtering. In addition, individual labelling could contribute to significant simplifications and increased security in grant management as well as evidence of loss of clean to, inter alia, Roof game. It is important to maintain culture, it is important to maintain ecology, and it is important to maintain economic sustainability. Then it's important that we preserve the culture with the intersection marking, while at the same time being able and able to use new technology to precisely maintain the good reindeer we're known for, especially in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e250	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e255	The Central Party has asked the Council of State in writing about the legislative amendment on the right of association to self-determination, and the background is the massive resistance to the proposal of both the reindeer industry and the Sameting. First, I must point out that the Council of State has not answered the question that was asked, because it was not asked whether consultations on implementation or when implementation will take place, nor whether forced individual labelling will interfere with traditional culture. In the answer, only the Council of State notes that this is not a threat to our culture and our traditions. Then the next question must be whether the Council of State really believes that it is not up to an indigenous people themselves to define what is an intervention in their culture. Can the ministry unilaterally determine what constitutes a threat, even though it may conflict with what the people themselves and the Sametinge say?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e265	In the purpose paragraph of this law, there are three fundamental elements: culture, ecology and economics. Organic sustainability is also important. If we're going to have ecological sustainability, we're dependent on having a farm that's ecologically sustainable. Then we also depend on knowing and having an overview of the amount of pure that is to graze on the pastures in force at all times. Then I believe it is both to take into account the cultural aspect of the purpose paragraph, that the culture of the indigenous population is preserved, while at the same time ensuring the sustainability of the present generation and future generations.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e270	According to the UN Declaration of Populations, for which Norway has both voted in favour and actively worked out, internal self-determination is strong and together holds this right both as a people and as an indigenous person. So the Council of State still does not answer the question, but suggests that traditional labelling should also be continued, without knowing how. Today’s alternatives to individual labelling are ear clips or chips, and the cost of microchiping makes this appear unrealistic. And to the answer that came here earlier, can the Council of State guarantee that the amendment of the law does not lead to a forced marking of individuals with ear clips? I'm asking about it because the anatomy and the actual size of the reindeer make it practically not possible to use both of the brand options at the same time, other than for a few brands that have few labels.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e277	I'm the first to admit that I don't know the anatomy of every single ear well. It knows the Sami people and culture and indigenous people better than we do. I'm the first one to admit that. But at the same time, we have also been told in the hearing that there are reindeers who have used chips while they have managed to preserve the traditional labelling of their pure, and they have seen it as a benefit both ecologically, economically and in terms of sustainability. That's why I believe that's the opportunity we're going to make use of, precisely to ensure the sustainability of reindeer operations in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e282	A simple RFID chip that can use a hand-scanner to register costs around $15 plus VAT, and a hand-scanner that scans the reindeer costs about $5,000 plus VAT. Has the government at any time calculated what this will cost the reindeer industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e287	Yes, we are familiar with the prices that the representative refers to here, that a hand recorder costs approx. 5 000 and a chip 15 kroner. We have been informed of that, and I think that will have to be taken into consideration in the negotiations on the Purity Agreement when that time comes. Now we're going to make regulations, and we're going to have close cooperation with both the Sameting and operational organisations when we're going to develop the guidelines for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e292	The reason why I'm asking is that when it applies to the reindeer, a law adopts first, and then a try to figure out what effect this will have. I don't know if these pieces work in the cold, but I don't know what the cost or the distribution of the cost would be. There's a huge cost to the cleaners, but there's no way out. Then, of course, a whole reindeer industry gets against this bill, and the whole Sameeting too. Obviously, this is an over-the-counter imagery. That's the definition of parenthood. Then my question to the Council of State is whether there is a proper distribution in this area that shows that a better control and a better industry is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e299	What we know is that having a given number of pure in an ecologically sustainable area is good for having a sustainable nature, and one looks it back in kilograms at the calves that are in sustainable areas. If we are to take care of the whole purpose of the law, which is about sustainability, and which is about ecology, economics and culture, we need to be able to use new methods to maintain sustainability. I thought the representative was also concerned about sustainability, that nature should bear what we have, and then we have to apply new methods just to achieve the goal of sustainability. At the same time, someone has tried this and found out that it is possible. Those who have tried it have even seen it as a win.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e304	It is quite right that there are cleaners who have tried this out, have tried it. And it's the industry itself that has developed the technology they use. An image is created that this is an industry that is anti-new technology. It's not that. They're using new technology, whether it's ATVs, scooters, or drones, which one now sees to an ever greater extent. But then they say that individual selection is against them for many different reasons, and then there should be an alarm somewhere. Instead, it is argued that this is an industry that is opposed to progress. This is where the state is supposed to come in and determine the direction. Based on the government's response, we can establish that there is no representation in this area. Here you only want to do it with the reason that it is the best for the industry. Can the Council explain how individual labelling will actually lead to better ecological management of the reindeer industry in practice?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e313	First, I would like to say to the representative that I have never said that the reindeer industry is not innovative. I have never said that the reindeer industry has not implemented any new methods. It comes from the representative himself. What I've said is that I'm busy implementing what's in the purpose paragraph of this law. I'm busy with all three elements. Those who have already introduced the new technology see that they can take out sims, they can see calves, they can follow the animals in a completely different way and take out animals directly. They have control of their flocks in another way. I believe that is a win in the future. When one in addition can use this in the case of predators, and in the case of slaughter, I believe we have a gain in this that benefits the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e319	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e326	Most of us don't know much about reindeer operations. This case may seem small, but once we've seen the industry's involvement and how they met in consultation with the nutrition committee, we have to understand that this applies to something more than just plastic labels. When an industry knows little about trying to tell about its function, we have to listen. An overall reindeer industry clearly announced that this could create major problems in practice. This was perceived as an assault and a major threat to their culture and nutritional basis. The centre party listens to the industry and the Sami people. This case has several important aspects. Firstly, we must recognise the competence of reindeer operators. For hundreds of years, with their nomadic lifestyle, they have moved around with their reindeer. They have created a proud and important industry and produce amazing products. The Minister of Agriculture argues that the proposal is rooted in ecological sustainability, that there is a need to focus more on it, as if the reindeer industry is not already focusing on ecological sustainability. That's the foundation of the whole industry itself. The animals must have pasture to provide some basis, they are part of the ecology, and it is a prerequisite for having any reindeer farms at all. Secondly, we are obliged to care for our indigenous people. The advantage of cleaning operations and providing for competition with other meat is precisely that it is natural and authentic. People want a story and an experience with the food they eat. The customer wants to know that this is something special and something that is not commercialised across the board – a food production where traditional knowledge is bearable, and where the inheritance of their ancestors has been preserved through generations and developed a competence to produce a unique product. In the government's proposal, the Central Party cannot, with its best will, see that there is nothing but an end to the government's need for control and the willingness to red tape, today also to the reindeer industry. Instead of being proud of highlighting the particular nature of the industry and its willingness to change the industry itself, new schemes are being promoted to push reindeer into established models. I just want to remind the government parties that it is said that the wit is broadly evenly distributed. If this proposal had been as fantastic as it is claimed, it would probably not be necessary to impose it with coercion to the industry. Purgatory produces fantastic raw materials in poor and weathery pastures with limited resources, thus continuing a proud and rich cultural heritage. We should be proud of it, not detailed governance.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e337	I am concerned about the reindeer management in Norway and especially about the reindeer management in Northern and Troms. Nordland has 57 pst. loss of calf, 96 pst. is a loss to the peace of robbers. Troms has 60 pst. loss of calf, 93 pst. is a loss to the peace of robbers. Yesterday I spoke to one of the reindeer owners in Northernland. He could tell that last year he slaughtered one – and notice one – calf. In 1993, before the predatory game began to feed the flocks, he slaughtered 200 calves. Others have reported that they have so little pure to slaughter that they can't teach their kids that art. They can barely afford to eat the reindeer themselves. To now claim that introducing mandatory individual labelling with additional costs and additional work should be of benefit to reindeer management is not credible. The Government Parties and the Minister claim that individual marking will lead to better compensation arrangements in the case of predatory game. But it's never been the identification of pure that's the problem. The challenge lies in finding cadavers and documenting the perpetrators. The predatory problems have become worse under this government, and now I doubt that this government has the aim of ensuring the continued existence of reindeer operations. Arguing that introducing mandatory individual labelling of pure is important for breeding, is perceived as a direct mockery in the areas from which I come, because there goes the entire yield on which the reindeer should have bred, to predatory game. Purification does not need to be imposed in the form of forced cutting by law. They don't need greater costs and more work, they need to be able to get upstairs and see again a future in this sustainable and environmentally friendly industry. When government parties use breeding as an argument for coercive cutting, reindeer owners see more clearly how little knowledge proposers have about reindeer farming in practice. The reindeer know that reindeer condition is affected by many factors, such as plant growth, snow, ice, heat, and insect plague. In addition, human activity and predatory game activity comes. Slaughter weight alone can't say anything about the genes of the reindeer, it depends on the grazing availability through the season. I don't think the reindeers need plastic clips or microchip to know the owner, age, sex and condition of their reindeer. They know that through experience-based knowledge. The greatest value in reindeer operations is the natural, the authentic. Trying to force this industry to digitize is wrong. Let the Sami reindeer develop at its own pace and based on its own experience.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e348	The Sami reindeer operation has a well-developed and functional labeling system with a combination of ear cuts, which in Norway alone gives a total of over 3000 unique and individual reindeer marks. The system is designed to ensure orderly clean-up and avoid confusion and abuse. The ear tags allow a quick overview, and in a few minutes, you can locate your own reindeer in a flock among thousands of animals. The marks can be seen with the naked eye, and you can read them at quite a distance with the binocular. Precise and legible markings in fields are an absolute necessity to keep flocks separate and to have control over their own cleanness. The government is today asking the Storting to adopt mandatory individual labelling. So you have to force the reindeer industry to cut the plastic marks in both ears, which will destroy the traditional and functional ear tags, either by cutting the ear, by cutting the pieces off, or by getting the plastic marks in the way of the labels. I don't know what this will have to do with animal welfare. We don't know what that means for the Sami culture either. We don't know what it will cost, and we don't know what needs it will trigger for new infrastructure, like plant, electricity and network access in the mountains. What we know for sure is that the reindeer industry is against the proposal. We know that the Sameting is against, and we know that the Agriculture Directorate and the affected statesmen are against it. In short, those who really know the case, and who work with reindeer every day, are opposed. The message is clear: now the Storting is adopting something that we know too little about. The centre party listens to those who are affected and sees what the decision means in practice, and therefore we cannot support the proposal. We are also in the process of adopting a change in the law that most likely violates the rules of international law on internal self-determination, even if the Council of State would not respond to it. We have an indigenous industry that enjoys special protection through international conventions, and Norway cannot take this lightly. This case is referred to by NIM, the Norwegian Institute for Human Rights. Such statements must be thoroughly investigated before we adopt a serious intervention in a cultural industry. Purity has its peculiarity, and that's exactly what makes it so valuable. The cleaning is the clean, the natural and the strange. It's the traditional carrier where the whole family participates, and where knowledge is transferred from generation to generation. It's a unique product that we market both as food, experiences and culture. It's not long since the Storting appointed the Truth Commission, to investigate just the wrong that the authorities have done to the Sami people. Now the Storting is about to commit a new wrong by closing the eyes and ears of the clear message from the Sami people. The Center Party can't agree to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e363	As indicated in the Committee's recommendation, the Government Parties will vote in favour of the proposals for legislative changes promoted in Prop. 90 L 2018–2019 on amendments to the Law on reindeer management. At the end of the debate, however, the case rapporteur will draw attention to a detail in connection with the amendment of Section 33, on the obligation to label pure, which later would have gone under the radar of most in the emotional debate that has been about the individualisation of pure – with the representative Strifeldt as an honest exception. In today’s legal text, § 33 obliges reindeer to label ‘with the owner’s registered mark’. After the amendment of the law, the wording will be changed to ‘the owner’s registered mark with an earpiece’ and thus a new individual mark as well. So for the first time, the obligation to use traditional earpieces as markings is explicitly included in the legal text. It is not a coincidence, but a recognition by the legislator of this important cultural element of Sami reindeer management, and a clarification in the law that this tradition should continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e370	I will comment a little on what has come, and then I have to say that many reindeer areas are still struggling with economic sustainability. There are districts in all reindeer areas that have a good economic yield, but they are not all. If one is to have ecologically sustainable sanitation, one must also have slaughter weights, animal welfare and animal husbandry that are good. When you see that it distinguishes between 13 kg and 26 kg in calf slaughter weight, it's a potential to improve reindeer management in many areas. The representative, Knag Fylkesnes, said that there are two points in this case, one for control and one for industry. I don't need to go further in terms of control, but nutrition is also important in order to develop the industry and control the development of the health of the reindeer flocks. But then the representative Knag Fylkesnes argued that the entire reindeer industry is against. That's not true. The sewage treatment industry is divided. I get many feedback from reindeer operators and reindeer operators who attend to this. I am going to refer to an e-mail from a reindeer operator, who writes: But once this has been completed, everything becomes much more transparent, and you can check on the date if it is pure that is on the way, and if there are many sims with calves that have not entered the fence. Then you can ask yourself whether it is not a flock of living reindeer that has not been in the fence and take another round after approx. one month of counting, and then the clean ones that were on the way are in the flock. But if you're dealing with people noticing the calves, you have a much better understanding. In conclusion, I hope and believe this is implemented, so that we can get an overview of the numbers in the future, and that the clean ones sent to the slaughterhouses are registered on the right owner. It is a concern from the Central Party about the reindeer management in Norway and the further existence of reindeer management. I share the concern that I am concerned about the continued existence of reindeer. It is claimed that the reindeer must evolve at its own pace. We saw that the result of the last Central Party had the minister – it was completely out of control. We had a reindeer that was all the other way around, which we're actually struggling with even today. We need to get the reindeer ecologically sustainable in order to continue that development and still have it as an important cultural carrier for the Sami culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e381	All that the representative Strifeldt tells us about here is that we don't think we have this control today. We have all the control we need, both in terms of numbers and at individual level. From the speaker before there again, it is also said that it is not necessarily about ear clips or chips or whatever it may be. But the problem is that we don't know what it's about. I want to go back to a study that's been done, which shows that 98 pst. by the reindeer owners thrive in their job, but that under 3 pst. feel trust in the authorities. This coercion case is a good example of why, while the annual reindeer negotiations were concluded in winter – where the parties agreed not to go further with individual labelling – the legislative amendment is nevertheless promoted, approximately at the same time. The fact that the Right Party and the Advance Party do not value the cultural part of reindeer operations was made very clear in the biggest news in 2017. But the fact that the Left and Christian People's Party would follow is even more regrettable, even in view of the international obligations. The first reindeer experienced with an agricultural minister from the Christian People's Party was just this case. I would quote a colleague who also works in the church, who said that this is a international magistrate. Although it's due to the next case, there's a little bit of symbolism in that there's a full hall here today, because that means that each representative actually has to actively vote on the proposal that now everyone knows is experiencing by the Sami people as an outrage. The 2019 decision will be a new chapter in the dark part of the story that the Truth Commission has now begun to examine. In conclusion, I would just quote a lady who gave her opinion on this particular matter. She said it this way: they took our names – first name and last name. They took our language, they took our story, they took the culture, they took the lua, they took the clothes, they took away what we had. The only thing they couldn't take at the time was the reindeer marks. Now they're trying it out, too. It can be said stubbornly that this does not prevent reindeer marks because they are adopted in the form of law. But when you don't have an ear that's larger than that, you can't do that. I can speak in person: my reindeer, my right ear, doesn't tolerate a clip – that's just the way it falls half the ear off. Then you can choose to believe in the industry that says that, or you can keep insisting that this is right. The only right thing to do here today is to send the matter back to the department and demand that the consequences be investigated before a legislative change is promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e396	When one listens to the discussion here today and in many other matters that have been dealt with this spring, it is surprising how busy the government party is. What is suggested here by the minority is just that one should wait with the introduction of mandatory ID marking until one gets a holistic revision of the reindeer law, where one can really see what this will mean for the traditional Sami reindeer and culture. It should not be too much to expect that with the challenges that many feel in this industry, and with the lack of trust that many from all over and not least the reindeer have to the authorities, one should take that time. We know there are challenges when it comes to a good part of the labelling of animals. It also knows something about other productions. I think it's important to find good solutions here, so you get a better overview. But one should be able to take the time to wait, so that one can maintain and strengthen trust between the authorities and the industry and not do the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e403	I think this case is very much in favour, because it shows that there are a lot of differences between people and industries. The size would never, if an entire industry were indistinguishable from the introduction of a technology for production, have adopted it. Nor would one have adopted it without it being a prior arrangement. But here one goes and adopts a law without any support to an industry that is a culture-provoking industry for the indigenous peoples of Norway, which means, according to both the Constitution and the international conventions that we have signed, that they should have extended self-destination. But then this industry is the one that has the least self-destination when it comes to the problem. One knows best, while those who actually work with reindeer, those who actually use new technology, those who develop the industry every day, those who are out there – all of them against the bill. Then it's not going to get away from the fact that this is superfiction. I have no experience even from the reindeer, I'm not the same myself, but one doesn't have to understand very much to see an overemphasis when it happens, and this is a pure overemphasis to the reindeer industry and the Sami people, contrary to what we have declared we should follow ourselves. Then it's not going to get away from the fact that one draws the lines back in history, to all the other cases of the opposite imagery that have been done from this hall to the Sami people. This is a continuation of it. I just don't understand it, because we're thinking differently about all the other industries, but when it's about this industry, we know so very well how to do it. The individualization of reindeer is apparently a little bit of a matter, but I thought she was touching a very dark area in our history, and I thought it was in favour to see that a number of just walks away, without clearing. I could have talked a lot about a fraction of the distribution instructions, because normally there should be solid representations before legal processes. It has not been done here, just running on, because one knows best about it. It's provocative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e414	The picture here drawn by the process of drafting the proposition by the representative Knag County is strongly signified. The representative Knag Fylkesnes knows very well that when the news about reindeer operation was promoted, it was notified of the changes that would be made to the law. After the Christian People's Party took over the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, work on the proposition was completed. The industry’s signal has been listened to, and one has had a cautious approach when promoting this proposition. A promoter does not now promote changes in the purpose paragraph, as it was announced, a do not propose to amend § 71, because a good order of courtesy was reached with the appointment of representatives of the Reinhriftstyreldet. A more cautious version of Section 18 on accessibility to clean figures. This just shows that one has the ability to take a signal from the industry and to get a good approximation in the work on the proposition, as it exists today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e421	The representative, Mr Knag Fylkesnes, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e427	I'll be very honest and real at it. After the Christian People's Party took over the department, I thought it was bad. We can see that, among other things. when we're going to have declared with the reindeer industry now: a lot of positive things. The process around the intention in the purpose section of the law after Oluk V. Bollestad took over: very good. But we are still here today to adopt a change in the law that imposes individual labelling. We still have a long way to go. It is hardship, but we still stand today and impose a change in law, without distribution or anything, that the whole industry is opposed to – a culture-bearing industry that should actually have extended self-destination. That's the situation today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e434	The representative Bengt Rune Strifeldt has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e439	There has been a comprehensive process in view of this legislative proposal, and not least within the Committee. I haven't been running clean, but I'm in good contact with reindeer operators and I'm listening to them. The feedback from the industry on the selection of individuals is shared. The big ones don't want it, while the little ones like to meet it. It is a little special that SV fights against the small ones when you have seen other issues that have been debated in the matter. This proposal for individual labelling will definitely benefit the smallest reindeer, and also eliminate the possibilities for full labelling, in order to use a mild expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e444	The representative Nancy P. Anti has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e449	The representative of Strifeldt has mentioned several times today that the reindeer industry is divided, and that many support the proposal. Then I would like to take the opportunity to ask where these others, who agreed with the proposal, were during the hearing. Almost 100 opinions were received in the consultation round, and all those from the reindeer management team were strongly opposed to the proposal. It'll be a little too simple just to say that I know someone who knows someone who might mean it and that. I believe that we should be able to draw attention to specific consultation opinions which confirm what is said here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e454	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 2 and 3 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e483	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Right 25 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Green Party 5 minutes and Red 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, a sequence change be made of up to three lines with replies to the main speakers of the parties and up to six lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e496	I have said that before, and I would like to repeat it: it is not with great pleasure that I am the rapporteur on this matter. This is about banning the keeping of fur animals in Norway, i.e. a proposal for a ban. This is not the policy of the Progress Party. This is the result of negotiations on a government declaration lost by the Progress Party. We just have to realize that. This is a victory for the Left in the government negotiations. We also have to realize that. At the same time, we know that the matter also concerns a number of other things, such as: is in the process of providing compensation for the closure of an industry. I would like to say that, for the Progress Party, this matter is a criminal matter, but I should not say that it is not a parliamentary expression, so I would rather say that it has been an extremely difficult matter for the Progress Party – difficult because we are going in and doing such a great deal of action as prohibiting an industry. There is no progress party proud of. At the same time, we have agreed to this and voted in favour of a government statement that bans are a reality. Then it has also been important for the Progress Party, when we go into this matter, to look at what we can do to compensate for the fur farmers who are now being deprived of their livelihood. We want a fair compensation scheme that's good and fair. Justice can be reasonably subjective – just to whom? There are great variations in the industry in how it operates, whether a driver only has fur, whether a driver uses combination, whether a driver is big, or whether a driver is small. But the important thing is that we finally get to a good system. We have experienced throughout this process that there has been uncertainty about what has to do with compensation. Both the process and the outcome of compensation schemes have been criticised, etc. – of course, to throw down on the government and to throw down on the government parties. That is so far right, but with the uncertainty created it creates an uncertainty among those who absolutely should not experience an uncertainty, and it is the fur farmers. We are trying here to present a case which is the basis of a compensation scheme, and we are not going to adopt a compensation scheme today. What we're going to adopt is a ban on keeping fur animals. The compensation scheme shall be taken through regulation, and we have tried to give some good input into how that regulation should be. At the same time, we have been clear that we will follow up the work on the preparation of the regulation, so that it becomes in line with the intentions of the government parties. I have great faith in that we have to deal with it. Once the regulation has come into effect, we don't know what the result of the compensation will be. We only know that when we start the review of each use to figure out what kind of compensation should be given to each farmer. Then we know that. If that process suggests that we get situations that are not good, that are unfair, that are unintentional, we should be able to go in and correct it. If it gets so bad that the government parties find this completely unacceptable, we reserve the right to withdraw the matter back to Stortinget. This is an important matter. It is such an important matter that we can risk some ports on the bar hill, and that is unacceptable. That's not how neither the Progress Party nor the Stortinge treats people. So it's interesting to notice what makes this a difficult matter, and that's how to design the compensation scheme. There's been a lot of suggestions, a lot of ideas about how it's going to be as fair as possible. Government batches have tried not to go into detail. I notice that some parties have been very high on the track to tell you that this principle is to be applied, for example. applying the expropriation principle. Then it's interesting to note one thing: the party that has gone top of the line for that particular scheme, today presents a loose proposal for another scheme. It just proves one thing that this is an incredibly difficult thing. It's an incredibly difficult thing to say in advance how this should be. I have great confidence that the government will take the signals that government parties have given through the process. I also trust that we in the government parties will follow up this matter from minute to minute and ensure that the compensation system is good. I'm going to promise that if the government or statesmen don't do the job they're going to do, the government parties with the Advance Party will be there to correct them. We are concerned that this should be done in a proper way, and we are concerned not to create either hope or frustration in advance. It's going to be fair, so each one of them gets compensated for what they're entitled to, because they have to, because of the decision we're making today, to shut down their industry, to shut down their future say. The changes we've made in relation to the proposition are in the right direction. It's going to be even more accurate. I am addressing the loose proposal that the Progress Party, the Right, the Left and the Christian People's Party have promoted in the matter, and I look forward to a good debate and a substantive debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e515	The representative of Morten Ørsal Johansen has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e522	This was a very surprising entrance from the representative. You talk about that there's created uncertainty. Yes, there is a lot of uncertainty, there is a lot of uncertainty in this matter, and it is the party of Ørsal Johansen that has helped to create that uncertainty – there is no one else. What you're doing now is trying to misplace the situation completely. It's not credible. In this case, the Progress Party is probably directed by the Left. I understand that it probably hurts pretty bad, because you want something else, but that's the situation. It is demanding – it is demanding for those people, for those families, for the farmers who are in it now. That's what it's demanding for, for example. Ann and Wegard from Hå. They're quite young, they have little children. If this plan goes through, they're going to have $4 million. Indebtedness. With what he now says, can Ørsal Johansen guarantee that you will not be sitting and will have to pay maybe NOK 20 000 a month because of this arrangement?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e529	It is interesting that the representative Myrseth addresses it with uncertainty, but that uncertainty is created by the Workers' Party and the Centre's Party. It is the Workers' Party and the Centre's party that have sown doubts all the way about how this compensation scheme is going to be, and it is interesting to note that the Workers' Party and the Centre have a few others' ability, namely the ability to look into the future and see that this is going to be bad. I'm absolutely sure it'll be fine. I know what kind of intentions we have with the scheme, and therefore I am absolutely sure that the scheme will also be good, when we get a regulation and the county office will implement the scheme. To the question from the representative Myrseth, those who are indebted to the farming of fur animals shall not be liable when that scheme is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e536	Then we have found that the Progress Party is more concerned with making the Left satisfied than with making its own members, its own voters and Norway's fur farmers satisfied. On 29 May the representative Ørsal Johansen took part in a press conference in the Stortinget hiking hall. Here, a new solution for compensation was presented, and individual treatment and promising words, which we hear again today, but we hardly find that in the setting the Stortinget should be treated today. Nor will the Minister of Agriculture take up the opinions expressed at that press conference. Does Ørsal Johansen still believe that fur farmers can rejoice over the compensation they receive after they have to stop the operation, or do they still have to wait with horror for what the government is negotiating in regulation?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e541	The progress party is not particularly concerned with making the Left satisfied. It's not our job, the job left do itself. They have then received a copy of the government statement. I remember previous government negotiations where the Senterpartiet has been with and come laughing back out of the negotiating room, so I think we should leave it. To the scheme being put forward: once again, there is the uncertainty created if the scheme is going to be good, and the power of the Center Party to look into the future, which I admire very much. What we've done here is to say that we're going to have a system that's good, that's fair, that the fur farmers are going to be happy with after the arrangement is settled. How this is going to be done, we're going to get into the regulation, which we're going to have a hand on the implementation of, and then we're going to look at the implementation, which we're going to follow closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e548	Today, for all intents and purposes, we must not doubt the basis for which we are now going to lay down an industry. It is historic, it is dramatic, and we must not push it under the carpet as just part of the negotiations – this must also be the case for the Progress Party. This goes against all common sense. The Constitution also points to how we have the right to bread, and we have the right to nourish. More than 200 farms and up to 300 mills are now losing their nutrient base. And as the representative Ørsal Johansen himself has said, this is a great human burden. Some claim that the basis was already laid in 2002. But I wonder, when did the Progress Party find out that they would go in for a ban on nutrition?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e557	I agree with the representative Knutsdatter Strand that it is both historic and dramatic, and I have not hidden that either. Nor have I hidden the difficulty of this matter from the Progress Party. The undersigned was himself the case rapporteur in the case before Stortinget when it came to the sustainable development of fur animal nutrition and was given a very good attitude and a very good decision in Stortinget. That's why it was incredibly deep for both the undersigned and the Progress Party that the Left got this winner. We lost it – we think that's tragic. But we're such adults that we just have to realize that that battle was lost. Our job now is to make the compensation scheme as good as possible. On the question from the representative about the basis was put in 2002: I have no idea when the basis was laid. I've been busy that we're going to have a fur animal nutrition. The result has now become quite different.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e566	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e572	This is the first time in modern times that the Stortinget by law adopts a ban on an established industry. There is no doubt that this has been a demanding matter, but it has also been very surprising. The Workers' Party adopted a controlled closure of the fur industry already in 2011, we programmed it in 2013, and in 2016 we in Stortinget promoted proposals for a guided winding-up – a proposal we voted for in January 2017. So where the Workers' Party has stood in this case, is well known. We were downhearted at the time – now the situation has changed. Of course, this is about animal welfare, but it's also about people – about people's demands for predictability and people's ability to plan their lives where they live, where they feel at home, and where they live. When the government promotes a bill with a ban on nutrition, it should be expected that the law also had its own legal basis for compensation. But no, the bill requires a regulation laying down rules on application and measurement. But the Stortinget today decides the framework for the compensation after which the government will work. It rejects the rapporteur in a rather surprising way when he says that the bill contains only a ban. That's not right. The uncertainty created by the government and government parties in this matter is, of course, frustrating. It's unpredictable, it creates frustration and despair, because of what's related to the compensation system and what's going to get in the wake of it. It is completely incomprehensible that one chooses to create this uncertainty. It is a politically conscious act that is taking place today on the part of the government parties, including the Right. In this case, it is especially the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party that has a significant responsibility. Only two years have passed since these government parties – against the votes of the Labour Party – advocated the sustainable development of fur animal nutrition. They created hope, dreams and a belief in new opportunities for the fur farmers. So do these parties, the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, turn around and will put down the industry that they just two years ago said had a sustainable future. With respect to reporting: not a lot of people doubt such unforeseeableness. As I said, this matter is primarily about animal welfare, but as the case has developed, and with the unforeseeableness that the parties of government have created, it may now be primarily about people and families who see that their future may be ruined, in connection with the unforeseeableness that is. Security and opportunities may be gone. As I said, we want a run-down winding-up, but we think it has to be done in a proper and honest way, in a responsible and decent way, where we can see the fur-bearing farmers in our eyes and say that we did this in a proper way. We can't do that today, and it's quite incredible. The winding-up itself is a broad consensus in Stortinget today. It is now about ensuring a compensation system that does not mean that traders, families, etc. ends in economic ruin without hope and hope. That's what the Storting must avert today. That is the task of the Storting today – to ensure that this is done in a proper way. The way in which the right government and government parties now treat the fur farmers is, in my opinion, a little worth seeing. It is possible to turn it around, it is possible to vote for something that gives greater predictability, so that even the rapporteur's emotional life can get a little more balanced than what he says it is in right now. Where's the dignity? Where is the human understanding? Everyone sees the numbers. We see the effort that has been put into a life's work. It is easy to understand the despair of those who now do not know what to do in the future, related to the legal prohibition that the Stortinge will adopt. We will vote in favour of a ban on fur farming with the closure of the industry by 2025, but we cannot in any way give our support to the government and the government parties' very unpredictable and inadequate compensation system. The small adjustments in the compensation scheme made by the government parties in Stortinget as late as today do not change that. The proposal they have put forward today states that 'The government is asking the government to comply closely with the compensation system'. Yeah, that's just supposed to be missing, right? It's unnecessary to write it. It is a natural task for a Council of State and a government to ensure that that system and the drafting of regulations are properly adapted and made as good as possible. But the uncertainty that has been created, they are unable to clarify through this. Furthermore, it is stated that ‘the plan is expected to be adjusted if there is an unreasonable outcome in the total measurement of compensation, including the compensation for the book value of non-realisable capital’. What do you put in that? What compensation should the person who has built a work of life over time and who does not have one penny in debt receive? How do you figure that out? Understand the one who can. It's particularly incomprehensible if you read what the government parties' representatives have been saying lately. Terje Halleland, representative of the Progress Party, said to Stavanger Aftenblad on 7 June: ‘I agree that the agreement is narrowly worded on this with the debt situation and book value. It would have been possible to formulate itself in such a way as to avoid the uncertainty that has now been created." Is that uncertainty now gone through what is formulated? No, by no means. The representative Morten Ørsal Johansen said to NTB on 29 May: ‘It is a heavy human burden to be deprived of the nutritional basis and to lose the possibility of continuing to operate until the next generation. There should only be a lack of compensation from the State for the actual costs.’» Is that what the Storting is doing now? No, this is highly uncertain. It is most uncertain because the government parties have not clarified that relationship – or as Left André N. Skkelstad said to Today's Business on 8 May: “When we put down a diet, we have to get rid of the compensation.” [[...]] Is it roughness that the Storting and the government parties are now exhibiting? No, that's not it. There is uncertainty and uncertainty being created. Where's the dignity? Where is the human understanding, etc., related to this? The question is, can you treat people in this way? Can you treat an industry like this, as long as we all see the uncertainty that's out there? This is not something we do because we don't know. It is not as complicated to design a predictability in the law of replacement as the representative and case-rapporteur Morten Ørsal Johansen said. There is a lack of will behind this. We don't do this because we don't know. We know very well what's out there, but the majority who do it, do it knowingly and willfully. For the Workers' Party, it is important to ensure that the fur farmers who have to cease their activities receive decent and fair compensation. We have several suggestions that try to substantiate it. We need to ensure an individual assessment in each case, and the basis and principles of replacement seem to us to have to be clearly legalised. There must be no doubt about what the Storting actually believes in this matter. We have always, in principle, believed that a fair compensation scheme should be based on expropriational principles. We recognize that there is no majority for that, so we've tried through different formulations to approach ourselves and look at the possibilities that the Storting could gather. I hope that, through today's debate, we can end up with it, and that we can be clearer than what the proposal of the government parties put forward, and what is in the position of the matter. To succeed would have to mean a recognition that the state has to take a far greater responsibility than the state now takes through what we are dealing with in the Storting today. I am absolutely convinced that the calculations are going to be many after this matter. There are many who will still live in uncertainty and know the despair of the uncertainty that is being created today. Many will also, when the final bill comes, experience great economic losses as a result of this case. Finally, the next time the government will promote a proposal to shut down an industry and introduce a ban, I have a kind advice to be more prepared than they were in this case. This is true in both responses and assistance to the Stortinget, which has been lacking in some contexts – it is very regrettable – but also, in a more well-founded case, because one does not want to provide decent and proper compensation. I will end with a well-known quote: ‘All you want others to do to you shall also do to them.’ I think it would have been good to live up to that quote today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e632	Would the representative, Terje Aasland, like to make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e637	I would, of course, like to address the proposals made by the Labour Party alone, and the proposal we have with the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e642	The representative of Terje Aasland has addressed the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e649	Who is it that creates uncertainty here? On questions from the Workers' Party via the Committee, the Minister for Agriculture and Food replied that she strongly rejected the use of expropriation principles in measuring compensation. ‘The use of expropriational replacement principles to compensate for economic losses resulting from the use of the Storting’s general legislative competence to regulate/forbid an activity would be a significant deviation from what is common even if regulation had far-reaching financial consequences. [[...]] Today we hear that the Labour Party has abandoned that proposal and is making a new proposal. Who really creates uncertainty? Do they know what the proposals they are making today contribute to the impact on fur farmers?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e659	The Labour Party is very aware of the consequences of our proposals for fur farmers. We're absolutely sure of that. But the uncertainty behind the proposals of the government parties in this matter is much more spectacular and much more unclear. The applicant's own recognition, through its submission of the case, is that there is significant uncertainty and significant inadequacy in the compensation scheme promoted by the parties to the Government. Then the Workers' Party, as I also said in my post, is in principle in order for us to apply expropriational principles and base it on them. We believe that the intervention against the individual is so big, so powerful, that it is actually looking at this, and we have adapted our proposals in line with it. We have not drawn any proposals, I just stress that we are in favour of the proposals we have made, even though we have promoted new ones today. Who creates uncertainty, I think the representative Ebbesen should ask those who are now living from fur farming in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e668	Aasland states that he is concerned that the Storting should gather for a decision. Then he should try to do so before the matter is dealt with in the Chamber, so that you can get involved in it. Aasland also says that he is aware of the consequences of the proposals that the Workers’ Party has promoted – and that the government parties are not. Then my question is, what is the amount of compensation to be paid to fur farmers if an expropriation is taken into account as opposed to using value or technical value? I want the number.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e675	The representative of Ørsal Johansen knows very well that these figures do not exist, nor do he know the figures that can document or follow the proposals made by the government parties. It's highly uncertain, at most speculatively – one doesn't know if it's 50 million. NOK more or 25 million. kr more than what has initially been launched. One doesn't know. The only figure that has emerged in terms of expropriational principles is a figure from the Small User Team, and they're not in my possession, but they're showing a compensation scheme of about $1.7 billion. kr – in contrast to what the government parties have promoted. It's the principles, the way to deal with people and the way to replace what's there by values really, which is the most important core of this matter now, after taking into account animal welfare and imposing the prohibition. The government parties have not answered that question. So when the government parties and the case rapporteur are now taking a shot at the opposition and the Labour Party in this case, I think with respect to notifying them they should see what they themselves have contributed to, not least of uncertainty for a number of people right now, through what they are doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e682	Today is primarily about animal welfare and that we focus on animal welfare. It may not have been easy to get along when you heard Aasland's posts, but on the NOAH's annual marking against fur farming in the autumn of 2018 the speech was a little clearer. Then Terje Aasland said that the time for keeping wild animals in cages was definitely over. He went on to say: ‘Now the last part of the job has to be done. The message must be ready – now we can’t hesitate anymore, nor can we pamper. We need the farmers to produce sustainable food. But we don't need the farmers to keep wild animals in cages." I think that was a good call. My question is whether the Workers' Party is going to do exactly what Aasland's representative here calls for, namely to contribute to the absence of any postponement. Today, the Labour Party should vote in favour of the proposal in the Chamber. That's when the train goes for whether we're going to get a ban on fur animal husbandry. The proposal ensures good compensation of well over half a billion divided by 167 farmers, and it can be adjusted if it turns out not to be satisfactory. If the Labour Party does not vote in favour of closure today, could it be said that the opinion of the representative of Aasland was voted on last autumn?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e692	I'm actually a little surprised at the question. The representative Melby couldn't possibly have heard what I said. I said up to several times that the Workers' Party is in favour of a law ban. We are going to vote for a law ban through the handling of this matter, but it must be possible to have two thoughts in your head at the same time. It must be possible to impose a legal ban on the one hand, while at the same time legislating a system of compensation to enable those in the industry today to stand with their backs upright and be sure that the compensation they will eventually receive from the State provides full compensation and covers the actual economic losses. So it's not possible for Melby's representative to get through the majority she's a part of. I think that's the big dilemma in this case. I wish we were not in the situation that we are now imposing on people the uncertainty that the majority will impose on them today. I don't think it's worth it. We should have done this properly, had two thoughts in our head at the same time – both the law and a decent compensation system.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e697	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e703	This is probably the most difficult post I've ever held from this speaker, and I hope it's going to be the last of this character. Farming fur animals has been discussed and debated for many years. Honors are the fur farmers who have stood by, who have spent all their time building up an industry they have believed in, who have gone to work with pride and a pleasure in contributing to an industry that has not only given the family income and hope for the future but has also given Norway export incomes. I've met several of the fur farmers and heard their stories. Not least, all the big business politicians have been contacted by the farmers and got their stories, and I have to say that it makes a strong impression. But the biggest disappointment I think we are many who share with the farmers today. It is that we should prohibit one more now legitimate industry, and not least that the Right as a business-friendly party contributes to the closure of the industry. Most people know that this isn't Right's primary position, but that fight we lost, first at Jeleua and then at Granavolden. Today we are behind the decisions that were made there. Despite the great disappointment of the ban today, there is also some understanding that this day would come. There has been a strong pressure to end the industry both among animal protection organisations and – unfortunately – probably also among the population. We might like that or not, but the fact is that the study that Responses Analysis did in 2018 showed that 77 pst. of the population who had an opinion about the law we are discussing today, supported it. This is also an industry that has lived with great fluctuations in profits. Rail prices have historically shown great fluctuations. After a preliminary peak in 2013, rail prices are almost halved. At the same time, the feed price has increased. These factors – resistance in the population to fur farming, unstable rail prices and increased feed prices – have probably contributed to a significant decrease in the number of fur producers in recent years. Since 2000, the number of foxes has been reduced by an average of 11 pst. per year, while on average the figure for miners is reduced by 1,7 pst. per year. With the summary provided to the Committee by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food in a reply letter dated 14 May of this year, it was estimated from the application for production subsidies that on 1 March 2018 there were a total of 98 producers with a decrease and 89 producers with a reef. 15 of these had both mink and reef. If these numbers are representative of the numbers we got in the proposition, there's a drop of 14 fur farmers in a little over a year. When we are there today to decide to ban an industry in Norway, it is the result of government negotiations. I would like to make it clear that the decision to ban the production of fur animals is based on a combination of animal welfare and ethical aspects, which in sum contribute to the justification for the ban. But when we're about to ban the industry, we also have to make sure to clean up decently. It has been important for the Right and the other government parties to put in place a good compensation scheme. I have recorded all the recordings that have come from the fur farmers, and I respect that they will not be satisfied with the settlement as it is presented today. There have been many opinions on the principles underlying the calculation of compensation. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food has thoroughly investigated this. They have come to the conclusion that using expropriation law replacement principles on compensation would be a significant non-compliance when the Storting exercises its general ability to prohibit an industry. The right and the other government parties support the government in that calculating a replacement measured by expropriation would violate the system established in the proposition and adding to a non-discrimination of producers. The Department of Law has also concluded that a ban on the rearing of fur animals does not require fur breeders to give their property to another person. The right and the other government parties support the assumption of non-realisable capital based on book values as the most appropriate basis. Then fur farmers will be compensated for costs that have not previously been paid. This compensation will also be higher for those who have recently invested more than for those who have older installations. In order to compensate for other conditions, a breeding step supplement per mink and reef is added. In the case of those who have made major investments, the Stortinge said yes to continued fur-farming through the treatment of Report. St. 8 for 2016-2017 in January 2017, additional compensation will be granted to them, with a background in an individual review. In the case of demolition and cleaning costs, I have registered in several of the e-mails we have received from the fur farmers, that some of them have not received what the government parties presented in their press release on the agreement. After that agreement, manufacturers will be covered by the demolition and clean-up costs after obtaining a quote from the approved contractor. They will also be able to do the job themselves and cover the cost of work. This will be done after an individual assessment. Finally, the amount dedicated to the conversion increased from SEK 15 million. kr in the hearing at 100 mill. kr when the government presented the proposition. The criteria have also been changed, so that one no longer has to change within agriculture in order to obtain the right and the possibility to apply for any means of conversion. I have also recorded this change – in recordings we have received – that not everyone has got along with it. In addition, the government parties have further extended this to compensate those persons who, at the time of liquidation, take early retirement from 62 years of age for the difference between real wages and early retirement until retirement, 67 years of age. This is what the Right Party has negotiated with the other government parties – in close dialogue with the government. Now it's the rules to be developed, where one has to come back to the details. But, as probably everyone here has come along, the negotiations have also taken place after the matter was decided in the committee. We have had a desire to care for producers and their families in the best possible way, as we now take from them the profession and the income base they have today. That is why we have today put forward a loose proposal asking the government to follow the settlement closely. We make it clear in the proposal that we ‘expected that the scheme will be adjusted if there is an unreasonable outcome in the overall measurement of compensation, including the compensation for the book value of non-realisable capital, to individual operators related to the liquidation of business activities’. We further ask that the Stortinge should be kept ‘orientated on how the scheme will be adjusted in the light of this’. The starting point for this is that we want to make sure that no farmers are going to get unreasonable out of the settlement. As a judge, we have worked until today to achieve the best possible result for the calculation of compensation, with the objective that fur farmers are, of course, to be treated with respect and understanding, to obtain a decent settlement, and not least help in the transformation phase they are about to enter. I can promise both those who are in the gallery today, and those in the hall that I will follow the development of the regulations and how the settlements will turn out for them. I will continue to be listening to recordings and contribute as best I can to the continuation. As I know the fur farmers, the competent people are, who will eventually get in the way to find an alternative outcome after the liquidation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e747	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e752	The thing we're dealing with today is probably one of the most serious things that we're going to deal with in this big business session. At the hearing in the Business Committee, there was a serious assembly that was clearly informed and informed that this case has a major impact on future business activities and how we deal with industrial prohibitions in Norway. That's why this case goes far beyond ensuring that all people in the fur industry are properly treated. It's about how people in general will be treated properly in the future. Then I wonder, as the representative of Aasland said, whether it is important to follow a principle that we should treat others the way we will be treated ourselves. Would the representative Ebbesen from the Right wish to be dealt with in this arbitrary way?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e760	Firstly, we are now dealing with closure and bans on economic activity. I think it is very regrettable that we are there to do so, but that is a majority of it, and the representative Sandtrøen is also involved in that decision. I am convinced that we will be able to get good solutions for the fur farmers affected by this matter. That is what has been my goal and my intention in the work that I have put into this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e767	Regrettably, the proposal from the government parties and from the right continues to be based on so-called book value. The best way to compare it would be like the Storting took away the value of the house from the representative Ebbesen and said that there would only be compensation and compensation for the equation value and not for the market value or utility value of the house. There are obviously so many economic differences between the two options that it could affect how the economy becomes too many families in the fur industry for the rest of their lives. I'm absolutely convinced that if Ebbesen were to answer my question honestly instead, the answer would obviously have been no, I don't want to be treated this way myself. Therefore, I would like to ask you a question: does the representative of Ebbesen see that today's decision could create a precedent in the future for other industrial bans?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e772	I think it's important to bear in mind that what you add up here is individual assessments. It's book value. It is important to take into account that when entering into the assessment of compensation here, this should be done on the basis of certain criteria and given assumptions. I do not know whether this is more inconspicuous than what the representative himself is in his proposals in Stortinget today. I think we all would have contributed more constructively in this matter by understanding that this is a difficult matter. We have received clear signals from the legal team that the principles of expropriation law, as the Sandtrøen and his party want, are strongly to be discouraged. That he still insists that this is the right solution surprises me very much.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e777	Saga today is about people. Ann and Wegard Qvalbein are 30 and 31 years old and live in Haå municipality. With the compensation scheme provided, compared to the taxed value, they will be left with a loss of $3 million. kr. The representative, Ebbesen, has said that the statesmen are going around every single yard and evaluate this. At the same time, you state that there are two factors that will lead to substitution, i.e. an accounting value and a so-called tispe plugin. What is it that the County State should do in this assessment when, for example: Are Ann and Wegard Qvalbein visiting? My question is: What would the representative of Ebbesen say to these two who are now the framework, both of the prohibition and of a weak compensation mechanism?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e786	First of all, it's very important to make an individual assessment. It is important for me to be sure that the fur farmers are both seen and heard in the settlement that will take place. Then it's important that we don't create doubt and uncertainty. And if the representative has received the proposal that the government party has made today, proposal No. 15, we further make it clear that you have to come back to Stortinget if it turns out that there are great injustices in the settlements that you arrive at.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e791	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e796	Saka we treat today, is unreal – both forbidden, the lack of compensation and the process. In the pot is an entire nourishment. The economic future for 200 families lies there. These are the families who can get the economic future broken as pieces of a power game to make Erna Solberg prime minister. These 200 farmers were even referred to by the Prime Minister as a morning present. The party of progress, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left must take equal responsibility for what is now happening. My hope is that the debate can bring about a propensity to influence voting. But after hearing the case spokesman, I strongly doubt whether it is possible, because it is according to the case-speaker's opposition, who has fought either against the ban or for full compensation, which creates insecurity. I believe that for those who are in the gallery, those who follow the debate, those who are in the frame of this, there is no doubt. It's the government party that creates insecurity. First of all, about the ban. The centre party wants a fur animal nutrition in Norway. We therefore have a proposal to continue and further develop the industry – because it is a profitable industry. It's a district industry. It is an industry of good animal welfare and an industry of export earnings. That's the industry of the majority today for a ban on nutrition. Pels will still be translated. There is no sign that this will reduce the amount of fur. The fur must only be non-produced in Norway. He can be produced anywhere in the world, under any conditions, but not on the land in Norway. And when the government opens the door to a food ban, I fear for other industries in the future. At the hearing in the committee – who was it that supported the government there? Well, it was the Animal Alliance, it was the Animal Protection, and it was the NOAH. I feel that the government has gone into a dangerous road. What does this mean for careful and stable framework conditions for all types of business when suddenly, overnight, as a morning gift, a food ban can come? So to the process: the Stoltenberg government saw the need for the industry to have tough conditions. Therefore, they set down a selection that provided a Norwegian public statement, a NOW. The distribution was on the horizon and continued until a big-time announcement, which, following a hearing in the Business Committee in the previous period, gave a clear decision in the Stortingen on a sustainable development for the industry. This occurred in January 2017, and the bulk of the population introduced stronger animal welfare requirements. These requirements include, inter alia: The left now suspended in the period until 2025. So came in January 2018 morning gift: forbidden. The Granavolden statements came. The current Minister of Agriculture Bollestad was one of the drivers of getting the Christian People's Party into the government, but one couldn't reverse the ban. But it was an expectation that a proper replacement would be provided. When Olug V. Bollestad, who was then a working party leader in the Christian People's Party, presented the proposition, I had a expectation that there would be full compensation. But the Council of State put forward a proposal that she knew would lead to economic ruin for several hundred fur farmers in Norway. That is the reality. I would say that the cooperation with Bollestad in this matter has been a waste of time. The Minister for Agriculture has been absent in the debate, we have experienced a department that has denied the Committee assistance for legal assistance when we wanted to design proper alternatives, and we have received few and bad answers to the questions we have asked. So the Minister of Agriculture will be responsible for the actions that are now being carried out against the country's fur farmers. I can think back many decades, but I can't find any government council that has submitted a proposal that has frame a group as hard as is the case in this case. The unworthy treatment continued in Stortinget. On Wednesday before Christ’s ascension day, there was a press conference in the hiking hall where words were used as if the case spokesperson were very happy and that the fur farmers should rejoice. But there was a shock for us who had insight into what comments they had made. There was no big change. There were some marginal changes that were made. The head stroke was fixed. It was the book value that was to be taken into account, and then he said that an individual treatment would be done. It's not a real individual treatment you're adding, because it's the book value, and then you have to count the breeding step. It's not a real individual treatment, so I expect the government party to clarify what they see as individual treatment in this. The show went so far yesterday, when there was a rumor that there were violent discussions in the groups. There was a proposal today, which says no other than that one here has done one too bad job. There is nothing to trust in that proposal, and one is in danger of adopting a ban without knowing how the compensation arrangements will be. Then I will give an explanation of vote, a very thorough explanation of vote. The centre party proposes to oppose the closure of fur animal nutrition. But we recognize that there is a plurality in the Storting that wants to give up fur nutrition, and then we have been willing to do everything in our power to ensure that those who are affected are properly compensated. We have made several suggestions, both where we have used expropriation law principles, and where we have provided further descriptions of what is contained in those proposals. And it was exciting, this, because Roy Steffensen from the Progress Party was out and said he couldn't support this, and Carl I. Hagen was out and said he couldn't support the government in this. But then they have and published several whips in place, and it makes things a little bit different now. The centre party was also willing to make a whole-hearted proposal for a new law, where we had changed Section 3, so that we could have an alternative voting between two proposals – one with bad replacement, as the government party wants, and one with good replacement, as the opposition party wants. That is proposal No. 16th@item: inlistbox It is the Labour Party that is behind that proposal, which has been put forward and put forward by the representative of Terje Aasland. Now it turns out there's a little bit more uncertainty about this. The centre party will do everything in our power to give a decent indication to the fur farmers and, if necessary, we will vote in favour of proposal No. 16 in the hall. Then it's a little bit of a question of how the voting order is finally going to be, and what the signal is going on in the debate, because there's no doubt that the Center Party is always going to be a party that stands up for Norwegian agriculture and that is willing to do what needs to be done to ensure decent conditions. It also applies in this case. We will come back to our final voting, but the most central and what I think the Storting could have made a decision on was to get a ban on fur animals, but we think that it should then be given full compensation. The reason why the opposition has many suggestions is that one has not received assistance from the Ministry to tell us what is the best solution, and how to secure full compensation for the industry. If that were the case – I think after listening to the debate so far – that comfort, excuses and attempts to owe to others other than those responsible would have been something to live with, the fur farmers would come out of this process. But it's voluntary to be a government party. It is voluntary to be Minister of Agriculture. It is voluntary to be the Council of State, and it is possible to vote decently when to vote on this matter later today. I finally take up the proposal of the Centre Party on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e827	The representative Geir Pollestad then addressed the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e834	There should be no doubt that the centre party is on the industry side, was one of the things the representative Pollestad said. He also underlined all the uncertainty that had been, and that things could happen suddenly overnight. I'd like to arrest you the last time, too late. 8.28 this morning, a proposal was submitted to which the representative referred, proposal No. 16th@item: inlistbox He didn't tell me that one of the points there is: ‘Decisions to the Act prohibiting the keeping of fur animals It shall not be permitted to keep animals exclusively or primarily for the purpose of killing the animals or their progeny for sale or other exploitation of the fur.’ [[...]] It was submitted by the representative Pollestad on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. It's almost hard to put the question -- and I think maybe I look like a question mark -- but when, given that this proposal is being promoted, unanimity in the Stortning on the ban on the keeping of fur animals, it's kind of funny to point out that it's the position that creates uncertainty, and that things happen suddenly overnight. What will the representative Pollestad say to them from the industry that sits up there, about the submitted proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e846	As I said in my post: the center party is willing to do what we have to do, and everything that is possible, in order for the farmers to get full compensation. It seems that the government party is busy doing everything possible to ensure that they are not replaced completely. I'm absolutely certain that no one believes that the Senter party is to shut down the fur animal nutrition, and we wouldn't vote in favour of a holistic bill unless that's what it takes to give full compensation to the fur farmers. If this changes, Section 3 is the change, which we will support. This is just an attempt to get away from creating games and specks. When the government party comes up with things in the last hour, we have to adapt it, and that's what we've been trying to do here, but I can make sure that we're going to vote for what's best for agriculture, what's best for Norwegian farmers, and what's best for fur farmers.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e857	The representative Pollestad pointed out that the regime presented by the government parties is a system that no one knows about. At the same time he knew very much about it, for it was bad in absolutely all fields. Then the Central Party has a proposal in the case of expropriational principles, and in addition they are now included in another proposal, which appeared tonight, and which has other compensations and other grant schemes. Then is my question to the representative Pollestad: Expropriation principles, which is the proposal of the Central Party in the matter, and the new proposal for compensation, which is the solution of the proposal – which of the two seems to be the best representative?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e864	It's a rather insignificant question, because if the representative of Løvaas had known about the expropriational principles, he would have known that there are two ways to measure it out, and that's the two ways we've described it in our bill. One makes the calculations in two different ways, and then one way where the farmers get the best out, to actually ensure real compensation. I should have liked the ministry to have been a contributor in the past, had given some assessments of, for example: the expropriational principle, the technical value and the way in which one could have designed this in order to preserve the points of the Centre Party, the desire that no one should lose on this liquidation, and that people should be fully compensated.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e871	I brought the proposal that was submitted tonight or this morning by the representative Pollestad. I notice that in all his posts animal welfare shines with its absence. It surprises me so much, there were not many words that were mentioned about it. So I ask the question of Eidem Løvaas in the same way as the representative: what foot is the Central Party actually on today? Over several months, we've heard how terrible it is that we're going to shut down the fur industry, but today, at this hour. 8.25. A proposal for a ban on the keeping of fur animals was submitted. Is it really such that the Center Party has now taken over that it would make sense to shut down the fur animal nutrition, or is the paper it's written on, just a picture of light?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e878	It is not right that animal welfare shines with its absence in my article. I started by saying that we want to keep on creating a fur nutrition in Norway. It is in fact the best thing we can do if we are concerned with animal welfare, both because Norway is a country that is the owner of animal welfare and because the alternative to what the Left suggests is to move production to countries with lower animal welfare requirements, and that the Left accepts for six years ahead that Norwegian fur farming is conducted with poorer animal welfare than what the Stortinget decided in January 2017. Then I understand that the representative wants most to enjoy our zeal to secure full compensation for the fur farmers, but there should be no doubt that the centre party is opposed to shutting down the industry, and the centre party is willing to do everything we can to secure a decision today that will secure full compensation for the farmers who are the victims of the ban. That's what we're working on, and the vote will come later today to show that we're doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e885	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e890	It is quite right to conclude this industry, and there is a completely incorrect solution to the compensation model. That's the SV's point of view on this matter. Just to take the last one first, because this has been very little mentioned in this case: so we have had an enterprise that is contrary to the Animal Welfare Act. She's in violation of the law. It's not SV that says it; it's the bodies we have before animal welfare in Norway. It is the Animal Ethics Council, the Veterinary Institute and the Veterinary Association. All of them say that, and then today we take the decision that is the only right one if we view animal welfare law and animal welfare at a decent level. Then there's the second propriety: how one settles this. We don't mean the government in a very close manner. The representative Ørsal Johansen said in his speech that sending people out on a bar hill – this is not how the Progress Party treats people. Yes, they do — not only in these kinds of cases, but recently 3,100 more people end up in poverty and social assistance after the big cuts in redundancy money. This has been a decline in the purchasing power of pensioners for years with the Progress Party in government. They have the dubious record in the number of children living in persistent poverty – over 100,000 – and the record in the number of billionaires in Norway. That's how the Progress Party and this government treat people. When it comes to the compensation scheme, SV has put in a series of proposals that we think make this a proper arrangement. First of all, we invite the Storting to compensate fur farmers for the real value of the plant by substituting an estimated residual value of assets instead of book value. The system proposed by the government with its book value is too small to return. In order to use the tariff language to describe our proposal, it is therefore the cost value on which we base our proposal. There's a significant difference. Our second proposal relates to compensating the farmers for the costs of demolition. The third proposal is to ensure that fur-bearing farmers who do not work otherwise because of the closure are compensated for lost income for up to three years. The fourth is that we ask the Storting to make sure that those who are older in the profession, those who are over 62 years of age in 2025 and who are not in other jobs, receive compensation for lost income up to retirement age 67. We also ask the government to come back to Stortinget in the autumn of 2020 with a case about the social and economic consequences of the winding-up decision. We also ask the government to ensure that no fur farmers are left with debts resulting from the closure, and we ask the government to move ahead with the development of these compensation schemes, so that they can be put in place during 2019. The last thing we propose is – the paradox in this case – that we are asking the government to implement a ban on the import of fur, after the ban on fur farming has been introduced. Because if you don't, this decision doesn't hang out on your hands – whether we're opposed to producing fur in Norway, while it's okay if he comes from abroad. We're expecting a multiple of this. So I'll just give you an explanation of vote. SV will vote for our proposals. We have no primary or secondary proposals. We are going to vote in favour of the vote, we are going to vote in favour of the SV's proposal, and we are going to support the loose proposal by the government party and the loose proposal by the environmental party Dei Green. I'm addressing SV's suggestion.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e911	The representative of Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e918	Thank you for a good post from Knag County, but I get a little confused, and then it's timely maybe to ask a question related to that confusion. In the comments submitted by the Socialist Left Party, it is argued that a market value calculation that is estimated by tariff levels is used. When the post is now held, it is considered to be cost value – cost value is thus costs less consumption of fixed capital – remarkably equal to book value. In other proposals here today – not by SV, but by others – the terms ‘value in use’, ‘technical value’ and, finally, ‘booked value’ are also used. Can the representative say which of these values is highest?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e924	Let me try: I want to say that the book value, as the government adds, is what gives the lowest value. And then we have cost value, which gives us a higher value. Cost value is e.g. one makes a technical assessment of the construction and then corrects one for age, maintenance, condition, etc. So it has a utility value, which gives it the highest value. This is one thing that has made the Business Committee very familiar with the tariff language, which we also have to stick to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e929	The utility value, which was presented here as one of the categories, is in the proposition estimated to be zero – if someone uses these kind of principles that we're talking about here – in relation to reefs, and to 1 million. kr in the case of mink. So it's clear that the representative doesn't know what value these different have in relation to each other either. My question then is this: Cost value – as described by the representative here, the cost of purchasing less consumption of capital – what is the difference between it and book value?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e934	One makes a technical calculation of the state of the building – that’s the cost value, i.e. a purely technical calculation of the values lying there, corrected for age, maintenance, etc. That's the model we've put into this, that one makes a concrete assessment of what a value is in the building.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e939	It is always the case that when the country receives a new government involving several parties, a government platform shall be negotiated. I would like to have the representative Knag Fylkesnes on a thought experiment, but which he has to deal with as a real opportunity as a representative and vice-president of a party applying for government power in a coalition with other parties: there has been a situation in which the red-green parties have once again come into position and are going to negotiate a government platform. The centre party, which has held a very high profile in this case, demands that the law on a guided winding-up of the fur industry be reversed, as a prerequisite for entering the government. How will SV behave in such a situation, where the centre party as the only party in the coalition has programmed a continuation of the fur animal industry? I'm asking that it not be deformed as a hypothetical issue, because at the decision to raise a stake in 2021, there are still four years left of the liquidation period that the Storting will adopt today. I think most people have come to realize that the Center Party has ambitions about government power.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e946	The speaker's chair I'm currently in is often the council of state when they're in a row exchange in Stortinget. They consistently reject all forms of speculative activity: there are speculations, and speculations we cannot answer in the Storting. But I'm going to give the representative Reiten a thought experiment: if we get a solution to that industry with a rough compensation scheme right now to the fall, then that's the decision and the process started, and there won't be any way to go back on it. That would be a final decision from the Stortinget's side.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e953	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e958	This is a big day for those who are busy and who have worked for better animal welfare in Norway. I would like to thank the Animal Alliance, the NOAH, the Norwegian veterinary association and all the other organisations and parties that have fought with the Left in this matter. As a party, we have worked for better animal welfare for many, many years. Already in 2002, the animal welfare report was adopted in Stortinget, and we have worked on this even further. When the former Minister of Agriculture of Left Lars Sponheim presented the Animal Protection Communication, he announced that the industry would be shut down within 10 years if animal welfare did not improve significantly. However, animal welfare was not adequately cared for after this. The furry farmers did not follow up on the staging message. It is therefore no great surprise that the Left has continued to work for success in bringing down the industry. Today it happens. Because there is no good reason for us to grow wild animals in 2019, which have nothing to do with cages, just to use their fur for luxury products. When we're into luxury products: even more of the big fashion houses, e.g. Armani, announced that they would end up with fur years ago, because it is unnecessary and unethical. Consumers are concerned with ethics and animal welfare. The fur price has been falling over several years. Like the population, the Norwegian population should also be concerned about this. Then we're on the team with the population and on the team with the future. I understand that this decision is tough for them. When the industry is to be phased out, it is important for the Left to do so in the most gentle manner possible. After all, it's all about the lives and livelihoods of individuals. We have a great deal of understanding that it is difficult for the fur farmers to change and put down their work of life. That's why we have, among other things, submitted for winding-up over several years and by 1 February 2025 at the latest. When a person has a certain age, it may be difficult to get a new job or to retrain to a new job. We understand that, and we've suggested that those who are over 62 when the ban comes into force will have the opportunity to withdraw early retirement. Predictable frameworks are important for the closure of the industry. Fur farms get a good settlement based on individual treatment. We're going to help them convert to a new industry, and we're going to help clean up properly after today's operation. I have great confidence that the county officials, the Agriculture Directorate and the government, in cooperation with the industry, will ensure that the process will be good and thorough in the future, so that no one ends up in a disaster as a result of our decision today. Over the past ten years, more and more specialist bodies — such as the Veterinary Institute, the Norwegian Veterinary Association, the Animal Ethics Council, the Food Authority, the Scientific Committee on Food Safety and several others — have taken a stand against fur farming. In this context, several countries have adopted a ban on fur farming. Now it's time for Norway to do the same thing. Today, Norway will follow several of our neighbours in Europe and adopt a ban on fur farming from 2025. But the fight, of course, won't stop there. After this battle is won, we will continue to work to impose a ban on the import of fur, in order to prevent other animals from suffering other places. This is primarily a joyous day for animal welfare in Norway. It's a victory for the Left and a breakthrough we're very pleased with, which we first got in place in the Jeløya platform and got confirmed in the Granavolden platform. It will be put to the vote today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e981	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e986	Pet Farmer Sigbjørn Churchbøen writes in an open letter to the Buskerud-benken on Stortinget the following: ‘If the compensation scheme is not changed from the Storting signal, the consequence is that we fur farmers have to pay out their lives in order for the Left to have government power.’ It's really very well written. When the representative now says that they will receive good compensation, that compensation will be provided for cleaning up, and that they will also be able to be compensated for conversion: what is the proposal made by the Government Parties today, which ensures predictability and security and which does not give the fur farmers the credit for doing so? How can the representative explain, through the proposal that has been made, that this is avoided?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e998	I shall not go back on the proposal that the representative of Aasland was unable to explain earlier today – neither he himself nor the representative of Pollestad. If the representative had also looked at the solution proposal, which is an adjustment from the past, and heard what we have said, it would be well and a half billion dollars divided into 167 fur-bonds. In addition, we write that if there were any unreasonable results, the matter will again be submitted. That is why I feel reasonably safe about this. And through an individual treatment for each pet farm, I'm reasonably sure that the ones that apply will come out of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e1003	I don't think there's any reason to feel very secure based on what's been said. I assumed that the representative had known a little more about what the proposal they have made – and I assume that they have had dialogue with the Council of State and the Government about it – actually implies, and whether it could be emphasised that it would provide sufficient financial security. That answer is missing. What I think is unusually bad by the Left is that they cash in a victory for animal welfare – that's good and good – but at the same time, the others cause a loss that they cannot stand up for and in a way emphasize a fair and proper compensation for. Why such a justification from the Left side? Why not do both of them right away?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e1011	I have, as I also said in my post, a great deal of understanding for those fur farmers who are now suffering because they have to put down a life's work. I have a great deal of understanding for that. But we've always been crystal clear on what we prioritized. We prioritised animal welfare as point No. one. It's never been the slightest doubt about it. It surprises me a bit that the Workers' Party is beginning to shudder when it comes to animal welfare. I thought that through national meeting decisions and what has happened before, they stood firm on it. I believe that we can have just two thoughts in our head at the same time – both the animal-ethical side and the thought of those who are going to wind up. They get, in my opinion, a generous compensation. And it also says in our proposal from earlier today that if it turns out that it gives unreasonable results, we will come back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e1018	The slogan of the left is "People first". Does the representative of Skkelstad think that the fur farmers should be fully compensated for their real losses?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e1023	The left always puts people first. In this case, as I said earlier when I was replying to the Aasland representative, we manage – perhaps unlike the Center Party – to have two thoughts in our head at the same time. One is animal welfare. It's about that we mean wild animals, which are supposed to be out in nature, don't fit in cages. In addition, we mean – and also the other government parties – a red compensation of well over a billion dollars divided by 167 fur farmers, and we say that if this gives unreasonable results, we are willing to look at this again. Through an individual assessment made by Fylkesmannen, in conjunction with the department and the directorate, we believe this will provide a good arrangement for those involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e1028	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e1033	I think I can safely say that today is special and difficult for many. There have been many rounds of fur animals in recent years, and today we have reached the point where a law decision is taken that involves a guided closure of the industry towards 2025. I want to start by stressing that I have the greatest understanding that it is a demanding day for many, and that this feels heavy. The primary policy of the Christian People's Party has not been to ban the industry, but to allow the continuation of fur animal nutrition under a strict control regime. The Christian People's Party did not win with its primary position in the government negotiations on Granavolden. We knew it was going to be a tough round when the point had come into the jellyfish. Even if we wanted another result, the Christian People's Party is a party that takes responsibility and keeps its agreements. As a government party, we govern according to a platform that we have in common with our government partners. The Granavolden platform is negotiated by the four batches and contains both victories and losses for all batches. When the matter was lost, the Christian People's Party position was that we would work to ensure the best possible settlement for those who now have to leave the industry – within the framework given when four government parties will agree. When the bill was sent out to the hearing just before Christmas, the starting point was that the total compensation scheme would have a total of 365 million kroner. kr. It was the Christian People's Party far from satisfied with. After the Christian People's Party joined the government, the frame was increased to 505 million. kr. That was an increase of 40 pst. in relation to the contents of the consultation note. The compensation proposed shall be calculated individually by taking as a starting point the book values of each breed and the number of breeding grounds in 2017. It has been objected that the breeders got a legitimate expectation to be able to continue when the Stortinget committed in 2017 to the sustainable development of the industry. Therefore, for those who have invested after that decision but before the Jeløya platform, a specific supplement may be provided in the compensation. In the Business Committee, the four government parties have agreed to further strengthen the compensation scheme. The state takes the entire bill for demolition of operational buildings and cleaning up, and the fur farmers will be paid if they want to do the job themselves. The means of conversion that originally had a frame of 100 million. kr, when the prohibition is introduced in 2025, will be extended by an early retirement scheme for fur farmers aged between 62 and 67 who have no other gainful employment or entrepreneurial income. So that's what the representative Pollestad called marginal change. It is also stated in the statement that the total framework for compensation for fur-bonds of 505 million. kr is to be understood as an estimate, i.e. not with an upper ceiling. That means that we recognise that settlement gets a higher cost framework, and we don't exactly thank the total. The total compensation depends on the costs of demolition and on the number of people who choose to run out of the liquidation period. We have recorded that there have been reactions among many in the industry that the book value of non-realisable capital should be taken into account for the measurement of the compensation. Nevertheless, there is something that government parties maintain as a principle. Such a procedure takes into account the indebtedness situation, and we stress that an individual assessment will be made at the level of use when measuring the compensation. So the compensation is based on both the book value and the size of the pet population through the tispe supplement. One does not take on the debts of breeders. Nevertheless, there may often be a link between the book value and the part of the debt related to the fur animal activity. To measure compensation on the basis of the debts or personal financial situation of breeders is not to be treated in a non-discriminatory manner. It is also important to remember that today the legal ban is to be adopted. The compensation system shall be laid down in accordance with the regulations and the associated process. We believe, however, that in this setting we have established some important principles for how it should be done. Today, the parties to the government have also made a loose proposal on the matter: ‘The size asks the government to adhere closely to the compensation scheme and expects the scheme to be adjusted if there is an unreasonable outcome in the overall measurement of compensation, including the compensation for the book value of non-realisable capital, to individual operators related to the closure of the business.’» We believe that this is a wise way to go, and we welcome the preparation of the regulation, which is to be used as a basis for the compensation scheme after the Grand Duchy has taken the legislative decision which involves a guided closure of the fur industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e1066	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e1071	In the Christian People's Party you like to talk about next love. That's what you say is an important value. I wish that this value was also used when this system was created, and very many had great hopes when the Minister of Agriculture came from the Christian People's Party. There is a reason why very many are now concerned about their future. There is a reason why very many people are sitting here at the gallery listening to what the representative Reiten says. I wonder if the Horseman thinks it is right that these farmers and these families should pay the price for this matter, so that the left came across. Is it true that those are the ones who have to pay the price? Or should you perhaps have made sure that you got full compensation?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e1078	This is a demanding day for the Christian People's Party. I made a little bit of an explanation for why. But we relate to an agreement that has been concluded. And then I think it's very important now that one is not too pessimistic until the regulation that is going to describe the settlement of compensation is drawn up. Many claims about how good or bad this scheme is are now being made. In fact, no one knows before the regulation is available. I can assure you that in the Christian People's Party at least we will do our utmost to ensure that this will be as good as possible within the framework that is when four government parties will agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e1085	The representative, Reitten, clearly says that the price, the value, how much money you are going to spend on this is fixed. The principles of the scheme are fixed – book value. That makes very many, you know, going to be in debt on the basis of the decisions taken today. Can the representative, Reiten, guarantee everyone in this room that no one will be in debt after you have finished the regulatory work?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e1090	We've got a lot of input into this case, strong input, which we listen to and take into account. There is also one of the reasons why a loose proposal has now been put forward at the very end, where we say very clearly that we expect that if there is a manifestly unfair situation here, adjustments will be made to the scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e1095	I record that the Christian People's Party is on a ban, and when it comes to the theme of compensation, it was said in the previous answer that there is 'no one knows'. But this compensation scheme is based on two values. One is book value, and the other is called a tispe plugin. This should clearly do an individual treatment. What I'm going to assume is to see what the book value is, and to look at the number of breeders. But then the representative Reiten adds a lot to the pot to what's going to happen in the regulatory work. Then my question is, would the Christian People's Party have other elements that could give extra compensation compared to the two conditions in the compensation arrangement today? Or is this just talking?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e1103	Yes, I am in favour of a proposal today that says that if there is a manifestly unfair relationship in connection with the work on the regulation and the settlement of compensation, we expect adjustments to be made.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e1108	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e1113	There have been a lot of different descriptions of this day from the pulpit. I describe it as a great day, an amazing day and a day that marks a victory for an incredible number of people, the majority in Norway, who have been in demonstrations over decades to ensure that animals are respected, as we have said in theory is to be done in the Animal Welfare Act, but we are now actually taking the consequences. The decision we are making today to stop allowing the breeding of foxes and minks in cages is because the majority in Norway have realized that narrow cages cannot meet the needs of these animals. Rev and mink are predators. It distinguishes them from all the other animals we have in agriculture. In order to find food, in order to hunt, in order to survive in nature, these are species that have developed instincts and momentum, curiosity and social behavior that are completely impossible to satisfy in cages. That's why this decision comes, and also because we've kept them in cages for some totally unnecessary products that humans don't need. There are a lot of animal friends who today deserve thanks and boast that we finally get this decision tonight. Some of them are sitting in the front row of the gallery here. Others are in front of the Stortinget. Very many are in their homes. However, I would like to thank the Left in the first place for having fought through this winner of the government on behalf of the populace. Let one thing be clear: today's decision is by no means a public judgment against Norwegian fur breeders. They have been engaged in a legitimate industry — most of them certainly with great love for the animals and with great efforts to care for the animals for which they are responsible. We, too, who fight the fur industry and have been doing it for many years, know this. It has never been the individual breeder who has been the target of our criticism. It is the politicians who are responsible for what kind of industries we allow in Norway. It was the politicians who started to invite and encourage people to start fur farming as a side-nutrition, at a time when fur was still popular and was viewed as an attractive luxury that gave status, which is not at all the case today. Later, politicians have been leading the industry for 15–20 years. The animals have been most affected, but farmers have also been affected, who have lived with uncertainty for a long time. Therefore, to the compensation, which unfortunately has been the subject of the most important debate today: the Greens want fair compensation for fur industry, but we will not vote in favour of proposal No. 16, from the Workers' Party, about another calculation of compensation, because we believe the definition of value for use is very unclear and can lead to new deferrals and less predictability for breeders. However, we are voting in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by the Government parties. 15, to follow developments and adjust compensation if there are unreasonable consequences for some breeders, which we must of course try together to prevent. We also support SV's proposal No. 6, 7 and 11, on compensation, and SV's proposal No. 12 and 13. Once we have acknowledged that fur farming is ethically irresponsible, it is logical to work for the fastest possible closure. We in the Green Party are concerned that the compensation scheme adopted today can invite us to continue breeding and animal husbandry beyond what is necessary. We therefore propose that the Storting actively decide to ask the government to arrange the compensation in such a way that it pays to have a rapid deceleration rather than to keep full operation until 2025, and we hope that it will be widely supported. Norway is ending today with many other countries. Countries such as Sweden, the United Kingdom, the Czech Republic, Belgium, the Netherlands, Austria, Macedonia and Germany have in practice introduced different forms of ban on fur farming. In India it has been banned since 1960. There are already many types of animal husbandry that are not allowed in Norway because we believe animals should feel good. For fur animals, the industry has failed for very many years to present a different way of keeping animals than in cages, which cannot satisfy at all – and which is totally unrealistic that it can ever satisfy – the species-typical and individual needs of animals, which the Animal Welfare Act imposes as requirements. That is why we finally decide today to stop breeding mink and reefs. Congratulations to the animals and to all the animal friends out there!
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e1138	Should the representative make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e1143	I do more than like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e1148	Then the representative of Une Bastholm has taken up the proposal of the Greens/Greens/EFA.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e1153	Today, Prop is being treated. 99 L for 2018-2019, on the prohibition of the keeping of fur animals. This means that existing breeders must cease operations by 1 February 2025. The closure of the fur animal industry was announced in January 2018 in the Jeløya platform, and this point was continued at Granavolden in January 2019. This is a difficult thing. The ban will lead to – and has already resulted in – human burdens for those who have to give up. The burden and uncertainty created by this case have made me think it was right to follow up quickly after the consultation of the bill, so that the future of the industry would be quickly clarified in Stortinget. After reading every consultation response, I have worked as a State Council to ensure that the arrangements for compensation and conversion funds are as good as possible. Until 1 February 2025, fur-bearing farmers shall have the time to cease their activities in order to be able to plan the most appropriate date of closure for each individual. In the case of compensation, the total amount of the compensation is increased to approximately 505 million. NOK – up from 365 million. kr, which was included in the consultation proposal which was sent out before Christmas. That's an increase of 37 pst. Firstly, the proposal proposes that fur-bearing farmers who have closed after the submission of the Jeløya platform on 15 January 2018, but before the prohibition has entered into force, should be subject to the compensation scheme. The proposition is based on the provision of compensation for book values of non-realisable assets used in the fur animal activity. Compensating the book value of operating assets compensates for all the investments you have made that you have not received through depreciation. It provides a level playing field for equal use, whether the investment is financed by loans or by savings. It provides non-discrimination of equal use irrespective of where they are located in the country. It treats breeders equally regardless of their personal financial situation. The hearing also found that for various reasons some fur farmers have very low book values of their assets for fur animals. This could be done, for example, by: are because they have made upgrades that have been directly costed instead of being shown as an asset in the accounts. Therefore, the Government of the Proposition chose to propose a standardised compensation supplement based on the number of breeders in 2017. In total, this tispe plug-in is about 85 million. kr. The proposal also proposes that compensation for non-realisable capital may be granted, on an individual basis, to fur farmers who have invested in accordance with the Stockholm Decision on sustainable development in 2017 but before the Jeløya Platform in January 2018. It proposes 100 million conversion solvents. kr. This is a double of 50 million. kr, which was included in the proposal that was sent to the hearing before Christmas. It is also proposed that funds should be made available for conversion to other types of activity, not only to agricultural activities. It is also proposed to grant 50 million. kr for demolition and cleaning. I note that the majority of the Industry Committee has voted in order to fully cover the actual costs of demolition and cleaning according to a pre-approved plan, for example. with cost estimates from the contractor. The self-sufficiency of producers of fur animals may be included in documented costs of demolition and clean-up, as also proposed in the proposal. It has been important for the government to provide a verifiable compensation scheme which treats as much as possible identical fur farms. Therefore, there are as objective criteria as possible and the compensation scheme provides for an individual measurement of compensation. The book value is individual and is based on nutrient input, it is not an equation value. The tispe supplement is individual and is based on the number of tispes. Conversion agents will be individually treated upon application. Compensation for demolition and cleaning will be treated individually. In addition, the majority of the Industry Committee has proposed the introduction of compensation for lower annual retirement pensions as a result of withdrawals earlier than the age of 67. I believe this is an important and correct improvement to the compensation system. After the law has been passed, I will send as soon as possible a regulation on compensation at the hearing, so that the system can be established quickly. I therefore hope that breeders who have already closed after January 2018, but are covered by the scheme, can have their applications processed already this year. The compensation scheme shall be managed by the Directorate-General for Agriculture and the counties of the different counties, and I will focus on the consistent and good treatment of the compensation cases. Conversion funds shall be managed by Innovation Norway. The reason for the prohibition is that the keeping of fur animals causes stress to the animals that cannot be defended when the purpose is primarily or exclusively the production of fur. This may be agreed or disagreed with, but the justification only affects the keeping of fur animals. I see – and hear – that some are calling for a more comprehensive ban regulation, so that imports and sales of fur products in Norway are also banned. I believe the practical effect of this will be very small. Furthermore, delimitation and enforcement would be demanding and it is uncertain whether such a prohibition would be in line with international trade agreements. That is why I have not proposed this. I would also like to stress that there is no link between the ban and the recent criticism of the supervisory practices of the Food Safety Authority, which refers in particular to a matter in Rogaland. The main reason for the resistance to fur animal husbandry relates to the mode of operation, not to breaches of the legislation. There are no more infringements of the legislation on animal welfare in the fur industry today than in other farmed animals. That is why I would also like to say that the legislative proposal adopted today does not imply any criticism of the breeding of fur animals. Continuously, our fur farmers have good competence and good animal husbandry. I hope that today's bulk treatment helps to clarify for breeders after year with uncertainty.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e1202	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e1207	The Golden Rule is a good rule. I think it's okay to live by it if you think that everything you want others to do to you, you should also do to them. It is fine and can fit into this case as a good value base, really. It's about not destroying each other, showing goodwill and will. Now that we have started this treatment, a law ban is becoming more and more accepted, and there is a rather large and broad commitment to that, while the system of compensation is increasingly protesting against it. Can the Minister of Agriculture understand that it is being protested against the scheme – or what has been proposed so far?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e1214	First, I would like to thank the representative for being so bold as to use the Bible verse. It has been done several times in the hall today. It's always wise to take along, I think, no matter what kind of view we have on the winding up of fur farming. Then I will answer the question about the discussion about the compensation arrangement. No matter what kind of compensation scheme had been chosen, I think the discussion had gone high, because it's hard to find a system where you see all sides – always. That's why we've tried to use those units of measurement and the way to do it that's as fair as possible. I also tried to say that. Equal treatment was important to us when we presented the proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e1221	First of all, I also think the Bible is a good guide in life. It's good to deal with it on a number of themes. But when I hear the Council of State answer it out with a compensation scheme, I am mildly surprised: It is so difficult – it is so difficult to define what this is going to look like. We have also heard that through the treatment and when we have asked for assistance. It is so difficult to find a compensation scheme, but the Council of State is about to issue the regulation, which authorises what the regulation should be, while at the same time we hear that the parties of government here in the main hall are very clear that there is a very good compensation system in force, and the Council of State argues in its intervention that there will be a good compensation system. How does it relate? How can one say that it's so hard to design, that one doesn't quite see it now, while one is going to issue regulations and argue that this system is really great and should really just create security? It'll be a little bit of a pain in the ass.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e1227	First, I want to answer what was said about getting help from the department, which was mentioned here. There were questions from the Committee Friday between Christ's Ascension Day and Saturday. We had a deadline for replying to Monday at 6 p.m. 9th@item: inlistbox There were big questions with little delimitation in what a lay in that no one was going to suffer financial loss. It was an impossible task for the department, but we could have done it if we had gotten the questions before. It had been possible for the representative and the business committee, because this was presented early in the spring. It's been months to get it done. To find what is the bearer of this: one even comes with changes today, and it shows how difficult it has been. Therefore, book value has been the basis on which we have landed as the fairest.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e1234	For the Workers' Party, this has not been difficult. We've actually had a principleal approach that it's the expropriational principles that are to be applied. Then we've tried to be present and see if it's possible to get a majority for something in this big room that gives a little more security to the fur farmers in terms of the compensation measurement. We didn't do that. The insecurity lies in what government parties and the government itself has promoted. It also does not help the government to respond properly. I don't think those who are in the industry now are safer after hearing the Council of State or hearing the answers to these questions. With regard to the deadline and the willingness to assist, we very much agreed with the committee, and we asked for an understanding that it was a short deadline. We asked to alert the ministry to be able to assist, but the ministry has consistently refused to assist the Stortinget on a principle basis. That's what you experience when you're sitting in Stortinget and you don't get any help. But what's amazing is, when you're so clear that this becomes a good arrangement, why is it a good arrangement, and why is it that those in the industry don't understand it? Can the Council of State explain that?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e1241	We've taken the entire proposition into account, the book value. Then one gets the value for which one has not received any compensation before. It gets one now compensated. In addition, we saw that someone fell outside here. They have paid down everything and got it all written off. Then we created a tispe supplement to ensure that one was given a system that ensured that several people were included in it. So add one more means of conversion, and in the committee added one more for those who take out early retirement, and one cleans up what's there. That is what we believe to be an individual - bearing arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e1246	This is about people. I want to draw up an example, that's how this frame Jan Ove Horpestad at Klepp. He wants to be compensated by the proposal that has been presented, with the book value and the tispe supplement, at the top of 1.4 million. kr. He's got a rate at his seven-million-dollar fur farm. kr. It is a gigantic loss and shows how weak the compensation system is. There is a proposal from the Government Party today that a ‘expected adjustment of the scheme if there are unreasonable results in the overall measurement of compensation’. Then my question to the Council of State is simply: It's a 5 million loss. kr for a family, because of a political decision, an untimely verdict?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e1255	The Horpestad challenge has previously been told by the representative Pollestad, and it is a major challenge. What is in the proposal today is that the compensation scheme is firm, but if something arises unforeseeable in individual practitioners, who have not been taken into account in what is available, we need to reconsider this. That is also the reason for having an individual assessment. That's why the statesmen are going to do this individually, just to see if there's anyone here that falls completely outside and gets hit in particular.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e1260	There is a lot of talk about individual treatment, and in a response to me today, the Council of State has said that it is up to the statesmen themselves if they want to go out to the garages and visit them at all. The individual treatment is, according to the current situation, to look at the book value. It's a given size. There isn't any need to make a move to see an accounting value. It's in the accounting. And the tispe supplement is a question about the number of animals. I only wonder if the Council can explain what to do in the individual treatment. Should one go out, and then the countyman shall come back and tell the government, which shall say to the council, that there shall be better arrangements here? Would it not have been much better to have done this clearly before a ban was introduced, instead of rushing through this matter? My question is: is the Horpestad replacement an unparalleled selection of the collected measurement, or does it take more time to evaluate it?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e1269	Yes, book value shall be assessed, clean-up assessed, conversion assessed. Something you can get on paper, and sometimes it's very wise that the countymen go home to the fur farmers. As I know the county apparatus, I think they're choosing to do it, because they're going to take care of the individual out there. I think the statesmen will take that task. It will be up to the statesmen to assess, but as I know the county apparatus, there will be strong consideration.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e1274	I'm going to ask if that bill is about, a ban on fur farming in Norway, and not about compensation. In the speeches by the rapporteur, the representative of the Progress Party, I felt at the outset that there was some doubt as to whether this ban is still valid and will be implemented in 2025 even if there are challenges to compensation. My question is then whether we can be safe, and whether the industry can have predictability and certainty that there will be a ban in 2025, and that we will have a new debate on how compensation for those who are farmers today and who have to lay down is designed if we see that compensation is not sufficient.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e1279	The Christian People's Party is behind a government platform that says that fur industry will be shut down from 1 February in 2025. We still do. What is available in compensation schemes, we believe, is a good arrangement. But it has also been said that if we see unfair results – and I want to follow this closely – we have to come back to it, because none of us want this to lead to great and unreasonable individual bias.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e1286	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e1291	To be in favour of or against a ban on the husbandry of fur animals is both of the positions that must be respected. But we all know the temperature that's here in the hall today, and it's not for no reason, because there's a lot that's at stake for many. Fur animal nutrition has been under heavy pressure for many years, because a picture of the industry in which many people operating within it are not familiar. It is demanding for those who have been serious about raising fur animals through generations and who have taken animal welfare seriously. We are all in favour of animal welfare, and everyone is in favour of unprofessional actors being turned down. It applies in the fur animal industry and is applicable in the rest of the agricultural sector. It is not okay for some actors not to be serious about animal welfare and not to take animal welfare seriously. That there is now agreement in the government on the closure of fur animal nutrition and a ban, I think everyone is taking over. My own party has also programmed that fur animal nutrition should be phased out – it wasn't my work, to put it that way. But when that happens, it's going to happen decently. We must not underestimate how difficult it has been in recent years, with conflicting signals from both government and magnification. In 2017, many people believed that the case was finished talking, and that the industry got predictability. Several chose to invest in a business that they thought would last over time. People acted in good faith. It's quite unusual to decide to lay down a whole diet, but when it happens first, we have to have propriety enough here in the house to give people a proper treatment, so that they don't end up in economic ruin. When you go for a ban, you have to be willing to pay the price for it. I come from a state where we have many fur farmers and also many large producers who don't have fur animals as an additional food for other farms – that's the whole operation. When they are to have their life's work removed by law, they must receive compensation and compensation that is real. The government's proposal and the proposal made by the majority of the business committee will not give real compensation, even if Ørsal Johansen is using it out and trying to give the impression of something else, that it is the regulation that will be decisive. That's what we're going to adopt here today, which will be what we're going to decide. There are many examples of real people who will lose almost everything they have, with the frames the government and the majority want. In resolving the proposal that came from the majority today, the government is asked to follow the compensation system closely. Yes, of course. But we know what kind of arrangements the government wants, they've put it in the proposition. Everyone in this house knows how the decision the government parties will make today will be interpreted: the government will do what they had planned. It's just words. Over time, I have had a lot of contact with fur farmers from my county who tell me how demanding it is to be stigmatised and used in a political game. Here in the day I spoke with Björn Berg, who is engaged in the breeding of silver reefs at Byneset in Trondheim. He's spent 30 years of his life building up a farm from 44 animals to today having 1,200 tigers. He has invested millions, but with the government's arrangement he wants to be left with fine little. Then I have to ask, what are we doing? It's people's lives we're talking about. We have all noticed today that there is a desperation in several of the government parties, not least in the case rapporteur himself. I would like to make an appeal to those from the government parties who have hurt their stomachs today. You're allowed to do the right thing, you're allowed to press the right button and vote after the conscience. We are chosen to represent the people we represent, and it is a serious and important responsibility we have. I hope that a majority in this Chamber will take that responsibility today and vote for decency.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e1315	The working party is for a controlled closure of the fur animal industry. It's been the Workers' Party since 2011, and we're going to vote for a guided winding-up today. But as elected representatives of the populace, our task is just to represent people. It is therefore quite natural that today's debate is about how people and families who are now facing a very uncertain situation should be treated. It's about how the rest of their lives are going to be, and something so fundamentally important as that when, for one of the first times in history, the Storting loses an industry, which today, they're going to make sure that people who are very strongly influenced by that law order also have a security for the future. Advocate General Arne Flivet was one of those who took part in the hearing in the nutrition committee, and in a very thoughtful way he has expressed how special that is what we are going to do today, and how historic it is. We in the Labour Party are conscious of that responsibility. Arne Flivet tried to find out if there is any historical parallel to the decision to be made today, and the answer to that is probably no. The decision we are making here today in the Storting is probably unique in Norwegian history and for the first time. That's why, as I said, it's about how we're going to treat people, treat people who've met here and sit in the gallery today, but it's also going to decide how people will be treated in the future, when other proposals for a business ban come up. That is why it is so important that the Labour Party's proposals, based on the expropriation principles, are given a majority, because it will mean that we are confirmed by law, which in turn provides a guarantee that everyone in Norway – no matter what you work with, and no matter what industry you pick up your income from – will be treated properly from the Storting in the future. I must honestly say that I am very surprised at the Right Party, and I would like to give a good advice from the Chair today: vote for the principles of expropriation! Just because the issue we are dealing with today is so unique, it will provide a security for almost every other people in the industry in the future, because then everyone knows that you're being treated in an equivalent way, in an objective way. That's the whole core of the Constitution, and that's what was one of the most important purposes when the mariners gathered in 1814, that you couldn't be treated arbitrarily. But today we've been proved by the Right Party that you're willing to do anything to keep Erna Solberg's own position, and at the same time you treat people in a totally random way. And it's been expressed by the government parties themselves. They said, "No one knows how this compensation system is going to turn out." That's proof in itself. Random treatment of people is now introduced by a majority in Stortinget – if we do not get to grips with the expropriation principles. So there's another point that's very, very objectionable. If we think of a case where there were some of the richest people in Norway, the most wealthy, who had a business ban imposed – what would they have said? Well, they would have said as follows: We have these values in our shares, they represent the future value of our business. We demand compensation for one thing – and one thing alone: for future revenues. And the right would say yes and amen. It's so amazing that it's possible to treat people so randomly depending on which social groups have power, and who has money. It's a sad day for the country's prime minister. It becomes, in line with the Workers' Party's programme and wishes, a business ban, but we will treat people in a proper way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e1328	The issue we are dealing with now is winding up – yes, it is the Workers' Party for – but it is also about how the winding-up should take place. There we are very critical and disagree with each other, and we are very concerned about the proposals that the majority have put forward. Justice, propriety – there are values that should have been the basis for this case. Unfortunately, it does not, and if the Storting decides today as the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party ask us to do, the Storting has not been able to see the people behind it. Then you hit families, farmers, knowingly and willfully. So these people are completely "real," they're sitting here listening to us in the nation's national assembly. We are the ones who have their destiny in our hands. So behind the discussion about whether we're going to have a fur animal nutrition or not, it's people. I've been talking to many of them, not least in the last few days. They need to be seen and respected, and they need security – security for the state not to turn them into debt slaves. They need to have security in their economy, so they can also pay for food, SFO and kindergarten and have a safe pension. And when the Storting decides to lay down an industry, we have to make sure that the state, the Storing, also takes the bill. We cannot transfer the bill to those who have to take the money to have lived off and invested in a completely legitimate industry. That is what matters – how we, as politicians, as big people, treat people behind us. In my state, in Kåfjord, Levin Mikkelsen operates with fur animals. He's contacted the entire Troms bench. I'm very excited about the representative Per-Willy Amundsen, who's been very clear that you're going to have compensation, and that you're going to take care of the people behind, will hold on to it when he's going to vote today. There are also many young people who have invested in this industry. Yesterday I spoke to one of them. He fears the future. He says he's worried that he's going to have to sell houses and homes – he says straight away that he's worried about whether he'll be able to support his children, and he's incredibly disappointed at the councillor Bollestad, who was supposed to help, who was supposed to make sure this was decent. He and the family are now charged millions of dollars in debt. He said to me: I am now on, never give up, but a few days are quite black. When I now sit with my colleagues who are usually tough men who don't talk about feelings, we sit and laugh. What he and his colleagues are asking for is a chance to start over, with blank sheets. Is it really that much to ask for? I don't think so. For the Workers' Party, it is a matter of course that people should be treated decently, regardless of what they think about the industry. For the Workers' Party, it is important to ensure that these farmers are wound up in a decent, fair and proper way. Then we have to treat them the same way: decent. So today, the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left peasants, families, send into insecurity, knowingly and willfully – knowing that they will remain in debt, which gives many an uncertain future. These politicians who vote for it thus ensure that young people lose their equity, which would normally be the safety of the transition to new profitable work. The same politicians ensure that adult farmers lose their pension, which is largely tied up in the value of the facilities. Regardless of what you think about this industry, whether you are in favour of or against a winding-up – the Labour Party is in favour – we cannot oppose it, but must be in order for these people to receive proper, fair and decent treatment from us, as the national parliament of the country. The Labour Party is committed to doing this properly, treating people decently, and we are ready to take the consequences of our policy. We are prepared to pay what it costs. Those who don't, should talk directly to those who are now indebted to them by the Storting, rather than being able to start with blank papers for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e1347	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e1352	The Council of State is not present in the Chamber. I think it is a little strange that no responsible state council chooses to be present when such a heavy and important matter is discussed. I ask that the Council of State be found, and that she come back in the hall as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e1357	It's registered. Governments are looking for one.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e1362	Then I continue my post. I have enjoyed being responsible for Norwegian fur nutrition. It's a serious business. They're good people. It's had good animal husbandry. There's been a lot of profitability in the industry. It is a very environmentally friendly industry because it uses residues from Norwegian slaughterhouse and Norwegian fishing industries and creates large values. Now the residual values are to be exported to Denmark or to the fur industry in other countries and create values there. One of the things I noticed when I was responsible for fur nutrition was that there was a lot of feeling, feelings and big words around this. That's why we put down a sample to get a public investigation and get the debate around the fur industry on the right track. The NOU was launched in 2013. It was a heavy selection that worked with it. They concluded in December 2014 that they wanted to have a fur animal nutrition in Norway. It was professionally wise to have a fur animal nutrition in Norway. The government then sent the investigation to the hearing. The government had a heavy job, but in 2016 it produced a big message that concluded immediately. Then we had the processing of the Storing Message here in Stortinget. We had a hearing in Stortinget. We had a broad debate in Stortinget. The majority of the population concluded in January 2017 that we should have a fur animal nutrition in Norway. Of course, those who are in the industry are investing the rates they are developing, because it was a heavy process that follows normal Norwegian procedure. But then the prime minister, who usually tends to say that she's occupied with private property, who usually tends to say that she's occupied with nutrition, after the negotiations on Jeløya and says that they gave it as a morning gift to the Left. During the night they cut a heavy professional process and gave it to the Left in the morning because the Right would have the government itself. At that time, the principles of private ownership had nothing more to say. Then the principles of nutrition had no value, because it was more important than ever for Erna Solberg to continue to be Prime Minister. It is completely unprincipled, and it is a violent attack on private property and on nutrition. The right-wing representatives of the Storting can vote for it, is contrary to the basic idea in much of what the Right claims they are in favour of. What is the definition of conservative policy? Well, it's gradual, knowledge-based change, that you think through things you're investigating, and then you change. Here, there has been a gradual, knowledge-based review, and then one concludes that the industry needs to be developed. But then the Right comes with a revolutionary policy: overnight, without any knowledge, without any new input, you put it down because Prime Minister Erna Solberg wants to have Trine Skei Grande in government. She's sacrificing individuals, sacrificing families, and then you don't have the decency to take the bill for that victim, because you're going to spend that money on other things. It's not possible to treat people that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e1375	Today is a sad day for animal welfare, for sustainability, for political propriety and for all the families now affected by the ban on fur farming. Now we put down an industry that is at the top of the world in animal welfare, and instead choose to move production to other countries where animal welfare is worse. So let's call that a win. I don't call it a victory, but the parties that have pushed it through call it a victory. We put down an industry that produces a natural product, uses waste from the agricultural industry as feed, and uses a value chain in a very sustainable way. The replacement for it becomes plastic clothes, and then we call it sustainability. I can't believe that the Christian People's Party, the Right Party and the Advancement Party think it's worth it. Here you sacrifice a whole diet and families, people, to get the Left into the government. And what kind of government has it been? Yes, there has been a government that cracks in every direction, on a case-by-case basis. The Left and Christian People's Party is far below the barrier of polls. The Right Party and the Advance Party are falling into polls. If there was a choice today, the four parties had 55 seats in this room. In addition, the sacrifice of families, the sacrifice of people, the destruction of the future to people, because this government project is so important. I do not understand that the representatives of the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party who are actually opposed to this have a conscience to vote for, when that is the price. This has been a strange debate in which the representative of the Progress Party, Morten Ørsal Johansen, has tried to present it as if it were the opposition that creates uncertainty. Then the position – the representatives Reiten, Ebbesen and Ørsal Johansen – argues that the Storting must have confidence that the government will come back and clean up if it turns out that this is not so good. How should the Storting have confidence in four lots that have subsequently failed to provide a full compensation scheme, which has put forward schemes that are bad and tried to sell them in for which some industry should rejoice? I have zero confidence that it will happen, and I don't understand why it is so difficult for the government parties to guarantee full compensation from day one. It's a responsibility they should take, when they choose to put down an entire industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e1386	For many in the Right, this is a heavy day, because it is not with a light heart that we decide to ban an industry. The fact is that one relates to a consensus that was reached on Jeløia a year ago. There has been a long process and an ongoing debate, which has been going on for many years. The fur industry has long been subject to criticism from animal protection organisations and others, and there has been a continuing demand for intensification. Putting down the fur industry is not right-wing policy, but at the same time we must recognise that it has become an ever-increasing majority for closure. The Labour Party has taken decisions to close the industry, and there have also been votes in the Right who have wanted to do so. The pressure has increased, and the Left – but not least, all the opposition parties – has raised the issue of closure, as we have heard in the debate today. Today is the day on which the decision is to be taken. It has been – and is – important for us in the Right to ensure that the compensation is as fair and as best as possible for those affected. The representatives of Rogaland Right have regularly been in dialogue with the industry and trusted at home, and there is no doubt that Rogaland is an extra heavy force hit by the ban. The compensation shall be based on individual assessments. The total compensation will depend on the costs of demolition and on how many choose to operate out of the liquidation period, but there will be no upper framework for compensation and demolition costs. The total compensation and the means of conversion has been estimated to be 650 million. kr, but it is important to stress that this is an estimate. We must have great respect for the fact that this is a difficult day for the fur farmers. I would like to thank all the fur farmers I have been in contact with, for their commitment and good dialogue in a difficult matter. This is an industry that is – and has been – important to many, and they are now entering a demanding process of conversion. For me, it is important that the Stortinget today is clear about asking the government to follow the compensation system closely. The Government shall inform the Government of any unreasonable compensation, and we shall also open up the possibility of the scheme being adjusted. Dear fur farmers, you have my and Right's full understanding and respect for the fact that this is a heavy day. I have to say that I am genuinely sorry that this was the solution, but I hope that we can still have a good dialogue, so that we can ensure that you get all the help and support you will need in the demanding transition period you are now going to undergo.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e1403	I'm wearing a little colorful tie today to show that it's a happy day for what we're essentially going to discuss here, that's the bill that's on the table. But I could also have a black tie, considering that it can also be a little sad day for the districts. I'll say a little bit more about that. The party has been announced that today we will decide that a never so small workshop for Norwegian animal husbandry – a bad case for us who are concerned with animal welfare – will be removed permanently after a transitional period. In my old profession as a filmmaker and nature photographer I have traveled a lot around the Norwegian mountain cottage, I've been to Svalbard, I've been to Russia – I've seen how the mountain reefs will live. That's what this case is about, how we've been keeping these animals in cages for decades after decades, something that has been criticised in some way by animal protectionists – of course for good reason, because they've had professional support from the Veterinary Institute and the Veterinary Association. One should really not have so much professional ballast to see what these animals need from space to unfold. They need space, they need their territories, they need to hunt, they need to play – they need to live. Actually, the decrease should also do that. Suffering if it is blacklisted in nature, it should also have been blacklisted in cages. It has – as a mountain reef – had a little over 1 m 3 netting cages to live in, sailing if we have been a little rusty in recent times. We've given them a shelf to live on, and here they have a shelf to suffer on and a shelf to look out at the other nature. That's what we've basically been getting -- 10 centimeters increase or something like that -- in the last few years. These animals are not fully domesticated. That's the whole point. They still have strong, would genes in them, and sail if some farmers have made foxes to be habituated, become less cloudy – I have sailed with fur breeders who have gotten it – it is still not a common livestock that has been bred over hundreds, perhaps thousands, of years, like many of our other livestock species. In addition, if it had now been such that they weren't so terrified there in their cages, that they didn't have so many would-be genes, that they were more like dogs, would the president put his dog into a cage of 1 x 1 x 1 meter-- or a little over it-- for life? I doubt it. Sometimes you can actually take the dog example – then it would have been a transport box. We'll enjoy this day, and then I'll come back to the chin by this decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e1419	It is necessary to stress that it is the legislative proposal to ban the keeping of fur animals that we are dealing with today. The representative of Storting Reten from the Christian People's Party has explained our views on the matter. I will not go into it further, but say a little about the compensation scheme and the proposal that now lies from the government parties in the hall to consideration today. In fact, the compensation scheme should be designed and laid down by the government. Nevertheless, it is important for the government to be given clear signals today from the Storting on how to design this scheme. This has also been done in the configuration of the Committee. But in the last few days there have also been many enquiries about this matter to all of us at Stortinget. That's why this is something we have to take the most seriously and listen to. There has also been a movement in the matter since it was released by the Committee. There have been many recordings, which have resulted in new discussions between the four government parties, and there has been a need to consider new elements in the matter. As a result of these discussions, today there has been a loose proposal from the government parties to ensure us exactly what we could fear, that is an unreasonable outcome. Here one tries to take into account that conditions that might not have been captured through the criteria used should be able to obtain solutions that are perceived as reasonable and fair. Reference is made to the proposal: ‘The size asks the government to adhere closely to the compensation scheme and expects the scheme to be adjusted if there are unreasonable results in the overall measurement of compensation, including the compensation for the book value of non-realisable capital, to individual operators relating to the liquidation of business. The size is kept informed on how the scheme will be adjusted in the light of this situation.» After the legal ban has been dealt with in Stortinget, it is up to the government to design the compensation scheme through regulations and follow it up. This is clearly the responsibility of the government. Nevertheless, the Stortinget in this proposal clearly shows that we too will follow the case closely, even after it has been completed here today. The ban on the holding of fur animals has caused many in the industry to be deeply concerned about the future and the economic situation in which they may come when they have to cease their activities. In the case of compensation for each individual use, assessments shall be made for each individual fur use. This proposal clearly clarifies this, precisely in order to take into account what could be an unreasonable outcome.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e1434	What we are witnessing here today is almost unbelievable. The majority in Stortinget adopts a ban on nutrition. It doesn't happen after elections, as a result of the people's will. This is done through horse trading, behind closed doors, with no assessment of consequences and scope. On the right, centralisation is proposed, the left sees it and hangs on to a ban on fur animals, and this is what they do. Earlier this year, the newly established Inland Right stated that ‘the case raises some serious questions of principle about what is going on in order to pursue a legitimate occupation in Norway’. We are many who believe that ‘fur nutrition is a serious and sustainable industry, for which Norway needs it’. This is an industry that goes by itself, which stands for 200 fur farms, 500 jobs and 300 million. kr in the annual income of the State. But these numbers vary, because we don't have anything to do with it. The conclusion of the Inland Right was that the decision in the Jeløya Declaration, where the government comrades Right, the Party of Advances and the Left had agreed, on the closure of the fur industry should be reversed, and that the actions of the fur industry against the State are important and justified. They further stated that ‘in the event of termination, the compensation must be equal to the real cost of an industrial ban’. This points to the government parties today as well. But what happens? Yes, the opposite. And I have to chew on the real costs. It is always expensive for people to change conditions, increase demands and lack of understanding that fur farmers – like all farmers – are concerned with animal welfare. It costs that it's been politics to take away people's livelihoods. It costs us to have this case in the hall today. It costs people, families and farmers. There are many sad fates, and these costs we'll never get covered. We'll never get the personal burden fixed. Fur farming has long traditions, including: in Uppland. Too many farms, this is an enormously important type of nutrition. Fur farming forms part of agriculture, and this is important locally, for example: with a view to making use of resources that are otherwise not of commercial value. I respond to the fact that the government in the letter sent by the Council of State to the Committee, points out that consultants consider that the employed in the fur animal industry will probably find other jobs within a reasonable period of time. What is reasonable time? What kind of future are these peoples waiting for? The industry experienced changed conditions that would ensure the future of the industry by both 2011 and 2017. It didn't work that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e1447	It is not difficult to know the frustration that lies in this room today among those who now have to lay down the industry they have invested in over a long life. And the frustration is to understand. Fur farmers who have built up an industry over the years and who have a relationship with their animals must look after other livelihoods by 2025 and get a turning time for this. However, when we are in this situation, it has been important for the Right that the winding-up should take place in a tidy manner, where one sees the individual fur farmer and the family, takes individual consideration and assesses each case separately. Furthermore, there are some frameworks for the financial compensation provided by the Committee, and these have now been registered by several notices that doubts are being raised. I am therefore pleased with the additional proposal that is on the table for today’s meeting, one of which highlights the fact that a request ‘the government follows the compensation scheme closely and expects the scheme to be adjusted if there are unreasonable results in the overall measurement of compensation’. Furthermore, it states that ‘The size is kept informed on how the scheme will be adjusted in the event’. With this we have got a security valve that underpins the desire and the will that is to carry out the process in such a fair and good way as possible. It'll probably be so that the disappointment that an actual downturn can be difficult to measure in pure money. It's hard to find a cure, and there's something you'll never be able to compensate for so it feels fair. We also have great respect for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e1458	Some things are the result of a political balance, but other things are the result of a purely political power game. Today, by chance, we are dealing with two things from the government that are only about the power game between the government parties. One is a change in the abortion law, which was created in an unworthy tactical game where Prime Minister Erna Solberg was to lure the Christian People's Party into the blue-blue side. The second is the closure of the fur industry, where, according to the Prime Minister, the Left got this case in the morning when the government expanded in 2018. It's nothing less than shameful to use people's life's works and jobs as part of such a tactical power game. It was a power game about government taboos. That parties who otherwise say that they are for private property and for nutrition, choose to do something like that, is incredible. It is also striking that no one from the Right, the Advance Party or the Christian People's Party has tabled and defended this decision outside the public, in debates on radio or TV. No, they've either sent Left's Sveinung Rotevatn or Left's Guri Melby to defend the case. No one from the other parties is publicly broadcast on TV and radio, nor is the Minister of Agriculture. She has not, as a farmer, dared to see the industry and political opponents in her eyes, whether it is in the Political Quarter, News Day 18 or debate in the TV. She has, must know, never had time to go into debate. This has been a very tough time for those who are in the industry. Yesterday I received an e-mail from one of them, Monica, who lives in my municipality. Monica and Odd Einar are across good people, and they don't run any fur farm, as the Left wants to say, they run a farm with fur animals. Monica writes to me – and I've been allowed to reproduce it: tomorrow we'll have the grace. It's a feeling, but I'm trying to prepare. I realize that we have lost the fight for continued operations, but I am not able to give up the hope that we can get a fair and decent treatment. They do not today have what the majority in this Chamber can adopt. The center party believes that the least Monica and everyone else should demand of the Storting is that they know that they get a full compensation, not a doubt that if someone is perhaps worse treated, then a look at it again. It has been strange to listen to the debate, and if the wishes for comfort to do something you don't want to do, or regrets about having to do something you don't want, could be turned into money, probably this fur industry could have been kept harmless today. I must also be allowed to make a brief explanation of vote. The centre party is opposed to shutting down the fur animal nutrition. In recognition of the fact that there will be a majority here today who decide to quit the industry, we have tried every opportunity to secure another majority for full compensation. We realize today that it will not go, and the Central Party therefore wants to vote against sections 1 and 2 of proposal No. 16 and only for § 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e1475	Much has been said in this debate. But it is quite strange to follow the discussion, because one by one, representatives of the Right Party and the Progressive Party have gone to this pulpit, and they are about to regret that they are now ensuring a majority for such a direction – yes, about weeping for them to ensure a majority for such a direction. As far as the debate on winding-up is concerned, I believe that there is a broad political majority in this Chamber. But the debate that is incredibly important is about those who are affected by what the Storing chooses to adopt – that they are treated with respect. And that responsibility lies here in the main hall, because it's also the bulk of the population who want to liquidate it. I think it is very special that the rapporteur on this matter, a representative of the Progress Party, says that we should not create expectations. Then you don't have respect for the fur farmer. Even I have had the opportunity to work one day with a fur farmer who is active in Norway's Fur Animal Battle, Sigbjørn Churchbøen, in my county of Buskerud, in Hemsedal. And even though Sigbjørn and I may disagree on the future of that industry, I have tremendous respect for the consequences – that it's about his and many other families' livelihoods, what they've built up, and what they've invested in. Then, of course, the case rapporteur from the Progress Party can say that we must not build expectations. But for me, it's about trust in our democratic governance: that we meet people with respect and trust, and that people don't get bored. Here we have parties that, based on their ideology and principles, talk about ownership and the importance of it, and then we don't see any trace of it in what comes from the government. There is obviously too much to expect from a Right Party and Advance Party-led government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e1488	Section 3 of the Animal Welfare Act states: ‘Animals have intrinsic value regardless of their human benefit. Animals must be treated well and protected against unnecessary stresses and loads.» The law requires that animals be ‘held in an environment that provides good welfare based on species-specific and individual needs’. The current forms of farming in the fur animal industry are not consistent with this. Rev and mink are predators, and they've only been held captive for about 100 years. They need to hunt and roam large areas. The reduction has no possibility of meeting its typical species needs in a small netting cage. Someone reacts to this by biting on their own body or circling around and around in the cage. For the reef life in cages can result in puppy drap, stereotype behaviour and apathy. The lack of freedom of movement and the ability to perform typical species behaviour in small cages cause these animals to suffer unnecessarily. This point is a little important for me to make, because the Left's resistance to fur farming is not that we believe that the individual pet farmers lack care for their animals, or that there are more unprofessional operators here than in other industries. It is simply a matter of the fact that the very form of operation is incompatible with the requirements that we make for good animal welfare. A few important additional factors are that the product produced by the industry is a luxury product – which means that I cannot justify this production – and that compared to other similar products, the environmental and climate accounts are poor. Many have believed that a ban on fur farming comes out of the blue, and that the winding goes too fast. However, as early as 2002, Minister of Agriculture Lars Sponheim announced that fur industry had to be discontinued if animal welfare was not significantly improved over a decade. It was also adopted at Stortinget. Now 17 years have passed, and little has happened, both in terms of breeding and farming, and since then, a number of professional ideas have been made that animal welfare cannot be done well enough with active cage predators. Several countries have gone ahead and adopted a ban on both mink and fox farming or have adopted strict rules on animal husbandry to ensure that profitability has disappeared. In recent years, popular involvement in fur management and animal welfare has also increased sharply, and more and more batches have taken decisions that have progressed towards a controlled closure of the industry. In the government negotiations on Jeløya, the Left gained a historical impact in order to eliminate fur animal nutrition, for the sake of just animal welfare, and today the bill is finally to be adopted in the Stortinget. It's a great victory for everyone who fights with the animals. But after this debate I have to say that I am a little concerned about what kind of place animal welfare will have on the political agenda. In a long debate, very few speakers have taken the perspective of animals. It is not surprising from a party like the Center Party, but I must say that I am disappointed in the Workers' Party today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e1508	Allow me to react to someone responding. Let me say it this way: if we don't speak from this pulpit, can express it when we feel that something is difficult, we wouldn't have been honest with those we represent, or with the things we're going to deal with. That is why – frankly – it is difficult to stand here today. And I hope that I get respect for that. Of course, most of all, there are others who are facing challenges today. And at least I have no problem understanding that this is difficult, both for representatives and not least for representatives of the industry concerned. It is clear that in a farm there is not only a single economic figure or a book value, in the farm there is also the passage of generations and the hope of a future. Therefore, there is no doubt that today this is an exercise in political camel closure also for me. Maybe you want to talk about this kind of animal in the future and not about camels and horses in such a context – I don't know. However, it is certain that it is now the end of a traditional industry. It is not our wish, but we have to take responsibility for being involved – and I take full responsibility for that. Looking at one of the objectives of Norwegian agricultural policy, fur industry may have fallen on the side. Even when the agricultural notification was being processed, all batches pointed out that the main objective was food production. Thus, today’s decision does not violate the main objectives of agricultural policy, but it can be argued that achieving intermediate objectives of use across the country is more difficult. The main discussion today is on the nature of the compensation scheme to be provided to the farmers concerned. Other countries have stopped this type of operation both through replacement schemes such as here, but also through purely operational requirements that have made operations impossible, such as: in Sweden. We are insisting that Norwegian farmers have a proper settlement. No one can expect one to be satisfied with the settlement without further delay, but in proposal No. 15, which is in the hall, at least it is such that after the settlement has been allocated a reasonable assessment must be made. I'm a little worried about the discussion about using the expropriation right by analogy in this context. There is no property that is expropriated – there is a right in the case, and therefore an analogue application of the right of expropriation. In that case, it's the value in use, which is the value in return, which in that case is going to be replaced. The Labour Party's proposal also points to this value. It is in the proposition calculated to be NOK 0 in the case of reef use and SEK 1 million. kr in the case of mining. That's not a good substitute. At the same time, it may be timely to recall the proposal made by the Workers' Party together with the Left and SV at the 2016 reading. Were they, then, clear and clear on replacement? No, they made a proposal on means of conversion, not compensation and compensation. If this had been adopted at the time, we would have been without compensation for investments, without the possibility of conversion outside our own industry, without compensation for tisperes, without compensation for demolition and cleaning costs, without early retirement compensation, and only funds for conversion to other agricultural industries without further clarification.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e1525	A lot of people have said that it's a big challenge for a party like the Right to stand here today. I join all those who have led it to the Minutes. There are three main reasons we are talking about today – that is industrial policy and the economy of the individual, that is animal welfare, and that is human concern. I want to talk a little bit about animal welfare, because there aren't so many from the Right who have done. I think it is important to point out that after a number of countries – neighbouring countries such as Sweden, many countries in Europe, partly in Denmark, Japan, India and other countries in the world – have gone ahead and said that animal welfare concerns are important. We also have to take that over. There are also some areas in the world that are now imposing bans on both imports and sales. This is an industry whose future looks somewhat dark. In any case, it should never be the background to shut down an industry, but it is at least worth taking into account the economic discussion. As far as human considerations are concerned, it is also important for me to say that not only do we take over the feedback we have received, but I, like many others, have been visiting fur farms, and I acknowledge both the job that has been done and the job that is done. And as the previous representative said, it's "the time of the genus". This is a traditional industry with plus/minus 100 years behind it. Yes, even Norway's richest man has Tufted his crowns on the sale of fox skin that he brought in to the city. Then I would like to make a few comments about something that the debate has focused most on today, namely the compensation. I am pleased with the proposal put forward by the government parties, because it gives us an opportunity to make assessments even in retrospect after the regulations are in place. I think it gets a little hollowed out when the opposition believes that this work, which has been going on all the way in until we almost entered the hall, creates uncertainty. On the contrary – it shows that we are actually taking this seriously. What makes it maybe extra hollow is that the opposition has worked the same way. Now we just got a clarification from the Central Party that they won't vote for the proposal they made a few hours ago, but they're going to vote for the new compensation proposal. Then I would like to repeat what I asked the representative Pollestad in the reply. There are now proposals from the Labour Party and the Centre – almost equally – one in the position, which advocates the principles of expropriation law, and then there is proposal No. 16 in the hall, which arranges for another compensation based on value for use. Now that they have two proposals that both parties are behind, they must at least be able to explain which of the two they think is best, and why.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e1538	Solidarity is one of the finest words that exists, because it involves looking beyond its own nose tip and seeing the perspective of others and acting accordingly. Solidarity must be a value that is pervasive in all policies adopted in this Chamber, including in this case concerning the keeping of fur animals. Then it must mean not only seeing or shopping according to the interests of one side, but more where possible. And in this case, it is possible to have more thoughts in your head at the same time. Personally, my political activity started at high school, then with a torch in hand in a train for animal welfare in solidarity with animals. Today, I equally fully acknowledge that a ban on the keeping of fur animals affects people's livelihoods and their lives. It's about about 180 people with families. Several of them, including from Rogaland, have today taken the trip here to ask for solidarity. And in solidarity with people who are not going to be thrown into economic uncertainty, I would also like to pick up the torch for that principle today. Because we need a compensation system that is clarified and better in the form of creating more security than the governmental parties – the Left, the Christian People’s Party, the Right and the Advance Party – add. All four parties have equal responsibility for government policy. Despite the fact that some government parties do not agree in the direction the shooting goes in exactly this case, they cannot close their eyes and point to the Left, because they are, after all, in the same government boat. The Workers' Party, together with the Centre Party, has today presented its own proposals for decisions in this matter, in solidarity with both animals and people who are affected by a ban, because more thoughts need to be in their head at the same time – for the most part.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e1547	After a long debate, with different angles, I want to go back to the basics: what is this really about? Norway has 200 fur zoos. Some only operate fur, others operate in combination with other productions, and the industry is spread over large parts of the country. There is a strict legislation for keeping fur animals, there are frequent veterinary visits on farms, and there has been a lot of debate on the industry – a lot of it has gone over all the boots. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food says that measured in the number of animal welfare offences, the fur industry is not different from the industries of other farmed animals. That's the way it is. There is no doubt about how this decision has been taken – after various battles, kicks and strikes, as we have heard here in the debate – but at the press conference, after that decision, the government parties outline solutions that they have not proposed for the Storting, among others. that no one should remain in debt. The representative Pollestad has said over and over again: it's a viable industry, they're dealing with laws and rules, they're making money, it's good profitability, they've done everything they can to operate in as good a way as we, who have adopted laws and regulations, have decided. Nevertheless, it is decided today that this industry will cease. It's also the case that the government won't cover the actual loss, and so it doesn't keep with good regulatory intentions in this room. Many people are disappointed that government parties have refused to recognize the human forces they are in the process of sealing because of the lack of legal protection for the financial losses of livestock farmers, when the ban on further operations from 2025 is adopted by the Stortinge today. The essence of the matter is whether Stortinget believes that fur farmers have legal protection against their full financial loss as a result of the statutory ban on continued operation. It is true that the NOU provided that full compensation means that compensation must be provided for the loss of the right of continued operation. The government's proposal is an attack on legal certainty, property rights and the protection of individual individuals, and it will be the first government in Norwegian history that makes a whole group of entrepreneurs hopelessly indebted with a pen stroke. This is actually what it looks like to be, also by the majority of the Biggest. This is so serious that, with more people, I am seriously concerned about the difficult health condition that the government has imposed on the fur farmers.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e1563	This is a sad day, it's a sad thing, and it's a matter that I would like to be in addition. Many compromises are developed in a multi-party government platform. For the Progress Party, and for my own part, the ban on fur animals is the most difficult compromise, but the Progress Party must also stand for it. I have great respect for those who work in the industry, and have a great understanding of the burden that we put on each one. For this reason, it has been very important for the Progress Party to succeed in a good compensation scheme. Uncertainty has been created about the formulations of the compensation. That uncertainty is created by many, probably myself included, but the debate also shows that there are more people who do not want to reduce that uncertainty. It is important to establish a good compensation mechanism to compensate for the losses caused by this Decision today. A regulation shall be drawn up and a right to compensation shall be established for each manufacturer. Use may vary and individual treatment is required. The use of book value has created a debate, and there will be uncertainty about that concept, and I still believe that the decision could have been clearer. However, as the rapporteur said from this speaker, and has been repeated several times: this matter should be closely followed up, and if necessary it should be taken back to Stortinget. So to underline the government's intention, we have received an additional proposal today. It will secure the decision for the industry, and also for my own part, so that there will be a fair and decent compensation. It shall be possible to adjust the system if there is an unreasonable outcome, and the Storting shall be kept informed, and I shall keep myself informed. And as previously said, if necessary, the matter should be taken back to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e1574	The most important thing to debate in this case is the financial compensation to be provided by the State when the majority of the population introduces a legal ban on the feeding of fur animals. The government's proposal provides legal protection. In the bill, financial compensation is promoted as § 3 with a statutory home. The comment on this section 3 states in the proposition, in paragraph 9 on page 43: ‘Overall, the purpose of the compensation is to mitigate the adverse effects of the prohibition on breeders and the provision does not require full compensation for fur breeders who may suffer financial losses as a result of the prohibition.’ Neither the State Council of Bollestad nor the representatives of the government of the parties have departed from this precise wording of what the matter is. The government's legislative proposal with a regulatory basis is therefore to ensure the state against the legal protection of those affected by the ban for full compensation. That's the nucleus. The case reminds me of Trond Helleland and the Santa Claus Act, such as The right was adopted on 16 June 2004, a law which, on 12 June 2012, was found to be illegal in the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg because it infringed Article 1 of the Human Rights Convention on private property. The primary task of the size is to adopt laws and procedural arrangements which are worthy of the rule of law. The opposite is happening. There are no comparable cases in which an entire industry has to cease its activities without adequate legal protection in order to have it tried properly before the courts. In the opinion of the Centre Party, the prohibition of fur production is to be regarded as an expropriation intervention. There is a major and serious deficiency in the legislative proposal that no explanation or assessment has been made as to why one cannot, or will not, base the right of expropriation on the prohibition of the law. The principles would then be well known to the state, courts and expropriation lawyers. The majority of the population makes a big mistake if one does not accept that the term ‘expropriation’ should be used in this case. That institution is to be used when someone loses all or part of his ownership and business base. The way in which a person loses ownership and the economic basis is of secondary importance, since the effect on an economic operator is the same regardless of whether or not ownership is transferred to others by coercion, that is, expropriation. Multiple decisions in Stortinget have previously ended in the legal apparatus. It will not surprise me if it will also be the result of this case if what the government – with the Right, of all, at the top – now proposes, gets a majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e1593	It has been chattered by the Centre Party with the slogan ‘People first’ on the left. To that it's saying that we have a large majority of the people behind us in this case. The number 77 pst. has been mentioned. So far in this debate, perhaps for natural reasons, little attention has been paid to the problem of alien species in Norwegian fauna. Since the introduction of mink in Norway as a food route nearly 100 years ago, there has been a steady flow of mink from fur animals to Norwegian nature. In my area of the country, mink with seabird populations is in a noticeable way. The Directorate for the Environment fights against this blacklisted species on the islands along the coast of Oslo, with dog hunting and traps, but it is indeed a sisyphos work. For every time a mink is caught, others immediately come to the reef, at least if the catch takes place in the inland and on islands near land. The decrease gives birth to an average of four puppies each year. The largest coal registered was at eight. It concerns the protection of species diversity. In this way it is interesting, almost symbolic, that yesterday, as a play for this debate, the Directorate provided a proposal for a plan of action to combat harmful alien organisms. In the case of mink, Norwegian nature is likely to have an eternity struggle. It's going to be like brown-snails; we can keep the stock in check, but we can barely eradicate it. Keeping it in check means, among other things, keeping it in check. to extract wild mines on islands so as to ensure the populations of seabirds – at least far into the gap – for a short period of time. Worse is the case with escaped foxes from the fur farms. Here, only one individual can cause genetic contamination of our mountain reef population. It is known to be a very vulnerable species in Norwegian nature, and that governments spend millions on maintaining it every year. There are specific problems relating to the recording of this pollution. We've had many cases of reefs that have been brought in, which even by our leading experts are considered mountain reefs, but where blood tests break up a meddling of escaped burrow. Had the polluter-pays principle been followed, this industry would indeed have been much worse off than it is today. Of course, the industry must be guaranteed a generous compensation. This is the result of the proposed scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e1606	First, I just want to support what Per Olaf Lundteg said when it comes to compensation. That's what I'm really at the back of. This is a heavy day for Norwegian business. For the first time, the Right Party and the Advance Party are in favour of a ban on nutrition for an important industry for Norway. This was carefully assessed in 2016 and 2017, and there was a number of them to enable the industry to continue and develop further. The same plurality is here today, so it's the Right Party and the Advance Party that have decided that fur nutrition should be shut down. Therefore, it is especially when they are here today and are sorry. They simply won't prioritize fur animals, but thought it was an appropriate morning gift to the Left. It says a little bit about what they mean about Norwegian fur nutrition. I want to show you a example from Hordaland. In Tørvik, the Dolve family has built up and run a fur animal nutrition, so that they have a good way to house their garden. They don't have that many revetispers, 300, but they do all the work on the rail. They are further processing products that they can sell to a large tourist industry in the West. This is how difficult it will be when you exit this industry. Not only does it remove the coat production itself, but it also destroys the possibilities of additional hardware on the curtains. It is a voter when their daughter sends letters to the Prime Minister and receives a reply that it will go against those who drive their fur and their family, but they will be allowed to drive for several years, and they will get plenty of money from the state when they stop, so they won't lose too much. How, then, should we be confident that, with the plural proposal here today, the state will not harm the industry? We should certainly have a much tighter decision here today. It is difficult for the industry to see that this industry is being phased out, when they know that the same majority as in 2017 intended for this industry to continue, sit on the Stortinget today – but because of horse trade, they will be sacrificed and abandoned. It's a little venerable.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e1617	I promised to come back a little bit as to why I should also have a black tie, and not just the party tie. This is because of the fact that the 160–170 fur farms in this country should not, of course, be left with black teats. They're going to have a compensation. There are many people who have made large investments. I think the majority here in the Chamber know that SV is a district party and an agricultural party, and we have credibility in that area. Then it's looked like it's sometimes having to go against parts of the agricultural industry, and I've given arguments as to why we're doing it, and we're still doing that. That being said, the representative, Knag Fylkesnes, has explained that we are delivering eight proposals, which in our opinion would guarantee that the farmers are not left with debt or going into economic ruin. Those proposals would guarantee it, and therefore it is a little strange that not much more of those who have that point of view support the SV's proposals, at least some of the eight proposals. I would like to add a small comment to the Senterpartiet. Now they're standing alone with the view of the law itself, but I don't think they're directly guilty of it alone. What's my big question is whether this is tricked by the Center Party itself, when they need the alliance that SV involves, and that the organisations that work for the districts, for nature and the environment, could agree on. The big question is not fur farming. Although it affects strongly those we are talking about now, it is a tiny part of Norwegian agriculture. I wonder if the Center Party is earned by breaking such alliances as they might have had in such matters. That's the big question, and I've asked myself that question several times. Classic nature protection concerns the question of predatory animals, concerning the question of fur animals. It is clear that we are going to have those debates. This has been a good government partner before, and there is likely to be a government partner again. And in these areas, the Center Party and SV will probably argue something. Then we stand shoulder to shoulder, load and burst with each other – for the districts, for short-range food, for organic food, for all that we appreciate so much, and that I think the country's inhabitants appreciate – but then I think we could, at least in this case, follow it as a majority of the country's inhabitants in large monns appreciate it, namely that we put a stop to fur animals in cages. And that's what we have now as the main thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e1628	As we are now discussing two aggregated issues in this debate, I would say – to the matter of shutting down the fur industry – that this is not, in isolation, a position that the Storting should have taken. Especially for a commercial lot, this is a long way inside. Nevertheless, when it is accepted at an overall level, it is based on the recognition that no individual party is so strong that it can get its will in most cases without it happening in cooperation with others. As this has been made an element of the current government's work base, it is decisive for us who support the government. But if, with different emotions, the outcome of the negotiations behind the government platform at the system level is accepted, it is all the more important that those affected personally meet with a real will to make up for a policy change that has emerged without any identified social needs, but where the change is driven by the political necessity created by the need for a powerful government, which after block thinking is referred to as finding a firm majority. No matter what one might think of the ban, I believe it is a moral – and some will also be able to argue well for a legal – duty to compensate them in the industry that is personally affected. Our whole welfare strategy is based on helping people who have been brought into difficulties, through compensation, not least when the problems are created by state intervention. Through the tax, we pulverize the disadvantages and concentrate the benefits. Here we don't have to do it the other way around. It must not be the case that the concentrated disadvantages befall the individuals who have incidentally had their industry here, those who have invested their labour, their way of life, their savings or borrowed capital, on an industry that was promised a longer life as late as in 2017 by the Stortinget. We cannot accept that 170 sole proprietors will be held with innocent losses as a result of political processes. I would therefore like to comment in more detail on the proposal put forward by the four large-scale groups which form the basis of the government: ‘The size asks the government to adhere closely to the compensation scheme and expects the scheme to be adjusted if there are unreasonable results in total measurement, including the compensation for the book value of non-realisable capital, to individual operators relating to the liquidation of business. The size is kept informed on how the scheme will be adjusted in the light of this situation.» I would like to underline the following: the word ‘replacement arrangement’ is used. It's an expression you use when you want to keep people harmless. The second term you use is ‘unpredictable results in total measurement’. It means individual and collective measurement that is not unreasonable. I would like to add that it will never be reasonable to take from any value built up through its own risk, legal business and after having acted in loyalty to the laws and regulations. Pointing to the item entitled ‘Compensation for book values of non-realisable capital’ is not particularly helpful to the pedagogical in this. It's just to point out that it's included as an element, but it's not limited to this. The final result, a full compensation, is the only thing that applies when the Storting gets this back and sees if you've lived up to the standard that we're adopting here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e1646	I would first of all like to make a comment on an opinion that the representative Pollestad had, which I think was quite the rat. He says that the government parties are doing everything they can to ensure that the compensation is as low as possible. So the representative Pollestad says that I want to do what I can to make it as bad as possible for the fur farmers. It's rotten! One might ask himself who's really doing it. Here, among other things, says: The centre party and the Working Party that they want to use the value in use. That's what I want to say – how difficult this value-setting really is. The value in use, according to NIBIO, is zero dollars for reefs and one million dollars for mink, on average. We can also use technical value: the average age of restocking farms in Norway is 28 years, and the average age of mining farms is 16 years. Which lifetime should be taken into account when, for example: a reef house on Jären and one in a deserted place somewhere in the country is built the same year, is maintained and is just as large – one has an estimated market value of 3 million. And the other thing is $500,000, but they're the same thing? What should a reason be then? What is the fair compensation scheme for these two? That's what makes this so terribly difficult, and that's why it's so hard to go for concrete proposals in a position from a proposition. It has to be done by getting a good prescription. And then it has to be followed up, so that here at Stortinget we have the opportunity to follow up and take hold of it if we feel that it becomes unreasonable. The example presented by the representative Pollestad – about Horpestad, who will have a property loss of 5 million. NOK – I would like to give a good example of something that is unreasonable. It's that simple. I am a little surprised when I hear the representative Fasterale say that we are going to leave fur farmers hopelessly indebted. Where the hell did he get that? There are such statements that contribute to creating the uncertainty that scares people, and it is not worth such a debate. It is totally unworthy in my view. Here we have to try to stay a little too good at making such statements, and then we're going to try to follow up on this in a good way. And once the regulation has been adopted, on which we're going to have a hand on the wheel, we're going to make sure that it doesn't get unreasonable results, as mentioned by the pulpit earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e1659	The President would like to point out that perhaps a person can use a slightly milder expression about the posts of other representatives and still get the idea.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e1664	Usually I'm quite proud to be part of the National Assembly, but I have to say that today I'm ashamed. That Stortingen was going to adopt a ban on industry for an environmentally friendly, profitable export industry, I really thought I would not be able to experience it. The government is destroying the livelihoods of many families, laying down important district jobs, setting down an export industry with great potential for development, and a few years after the decision of the Stortinge to establish a sustainable development of the industry, among others. required initial investment. Finally, the industry got predictability, it thought, but no, it was shut down, only as a result of political games. The Right Party and the Advance Party in Trøndelag made the choice that the industry should of course pass. Yes, they even warned against voting at the Center Party, because they got so bad comrades that they wouldn't be able to take care of the industry. Now they probably rub their hands because they're able to remove some new district jobs. Fortunately, the councils denied the myth that animal welfare is worse in fur animal nutrition than in other productions. I'm glad. But the ban on food is justified by poor animal welfare. What's going to happen is on the contrary, it's going to get worse. World market demand is not changing with this decision, and we know that the industry is going up. That was 10 pst. the first four months of the year, and the demand for fur in Copenhagen was higher than that for the first four months of the year. No, it is only moved to land with less clear requirements for supervision and less requirements for animal welfare. We don't get fewer animals in cages, we just don't get them in cages in Norway. It'll produce exactly the same number of skins. This has nothing to do with animal welfare; it is only the first step for extreme animal welfare organisations that will end all animal husbandry. We've already seen in the media that chicken is next out. The claim that these are wild animals in cages is also just a claim. They've been domesticated for generations, and anyone who's been visiting a pet farm knows that wild animals can't be taken out of the cage and pet. These are farmed animals, in line with everyone else. I am afraid that many here in the Chamber who are going to vote for the closure of the industry today, simply have not been in a furry zoo. It should actually be forbidden to put down an industry that you don't know at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e1677	Long-term, far-sighted framework conditions have gained new meaning with the government of Solberg. It means now: it's stuck until it's negotiated away, and it needs more revenue. Changes can occur overnight, as happened with hotels, cinemas and ski resorts – which received 2 psts twice a night. increase in VAT. Creativity has also been high when it comes to new taxes — introduced overnight. It's been done more than once. Full compensation has also received a different content. Full compensation for municipalities in the event of the loss of property tax on works and use was found to be 68 pst. compensation. Today, fur nutrition is its turn. Here it is to be compensated so that on average it will be quite fine. When one is standing with one bone in a bucket of ice-cold water and the other bone in boiling hot water, yes, it's on average ok. In my county, Sogn and Fjordane, there are twelve active uses for fur farming again. There's actually twelve families and we're talking about individuals. One may be for or against driving fur farming, for or against having been raised in cages, but a professional ban and a closure of an entire industry, which has a hundred years of history behind it, is a serious intervention and a great responsibility. The Labour Party has programmed winding-up and votes for it, but it must be done in a proper way, and the compensation must be fair and just for the individual. Fur nutrition has been controversial for a long time, there's no doubt, and there's a big difference between producing food and producing a luxury that fur is. Food production is necessary. However, I would say that both are about animal welfare. There is also a large difference between the treatment of animals in Norway and in many other countries, which means that the ban on the production of fur animals should have been extended to prevent imports of farmed game. There is also a great difference between the different Norwegian producers, where one finds the extremes — from the good breeder, who sees animal welfare as the highest, to the unprofessional breeders, who only think of profit. Many people would point out that the industry has been exposed to many opportunities and that there are several new demands that have led to new investments. Someone has been helped with the investments, others have been using own funds. A fair indication will not be given with the government proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e1692	Fur animals industry is a traditional district industry in Norway that produces environmentally friendly natural products and has for many years contributed net income to the Norwegian state. It consists of hardworking self-employed people who, in good faith, have invested their money in a legal industry – an industry which, not later than two years ago, got a legitimate expectation from the Stortinget about prospects for a viable future when the proposal for guided winding-up was rejected and sustainable development was adopted. Therefore, this is not a happy day, on the contrary. Nor is it a secret that three out of four government parties are initially opposed to the closure of fur animal nutrition. I have to admit that there are few things that are more in the hands of a Right-Handman than a proposal for a ban on nutrition for a legitimate nutrition. However, when I am going to vote in favour of the resolution today, it is out of respect for the commitment that a negotiated and adopted government agreement must necessarily have. That proposal would, in any case, have received a majority today. Then I will admit that I have major problems with the replacement proposal that has been presented in the suspension of the government parties. Correctly, there are insurances for compensation for unreasonable claims using the book value in resolving the proposal of the government parties presented today. But what's an unreasonable outcome? Unfortunately, the proposal says little about that. Most fur farmers have low book values due to depreciation over time and ongoing maintenance and upgrades through self-employment. For example, a farm in Oppdal has a book value of NOK 81000, but a rate of SEK 7.9 million. kr. How much difference should that difference be before it's unreasonable? It's $2 million. Do you really want to delete this That's three million. Do you really want to delete Most fur farmers have invested both their savings and their pension savings in their farms, and there is a desperate situation for them today, who do not yet know whether they will end up in an economic disaster where they will first lose their entire income base and then have to live uncertainly if they will also lose all their equity, and also be left with an unmanageable debt. I'm going to be honest with you that because of the uncertainty that lies in the government's proposal No. 15, have tried to find a majority for another proposal. I came here today to vote in favour of the government's proposal for compensation and for another proposal. Unfortunately, I now see that it will not be possible, because my one voice is not enough to turn the majority. Unless that situation changes, I will therefore vote in favour of the vote and for proposal No. 15 – but I'm still open to turn around if the realities were to show something else. I would like to conclude by saying that I hope that when regulations and replacements are to be drawn up, it turns out that my scepticism was unjustified, but I do not dare be quite sure of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e1707	It is worrying that Norway’s legislative assembly has so little principleal ideas about just legislation, because it has been used by some as an excuse not to provide proper compensation, but said that today the law on the prohibition of the keeping of fur animals is dealing. It is true that the proposition from the government is about the law prohibiting the keeping of fur animals, which also supports the Workers' Party, as mentioned earlier, to become a guided winding-up. But there is nothing that prevents the Storting from simultaneously adopting a proper law on how to compensate people. There is a total logical flaw and a error argumentation and an attempt to shift responsibility away. In order to ensure that this is provided for in such a regulation, the voters shall no longer, in their own eyes, be equally responsible for the compensation to be assessed. Extra paradoxically, it's actually going to be at a time when there's a lot of talk about our democracy being under pressure, especially in circles where it's being discussed, and where you like to add: liberal democracy is under pressure. There is certainly nothing that makes it more pressure in practice than a legislative assembly that does not dare to take responsibility for its own decisions and see the laws as a whole. Earlier today I told you about Arne Flivet and the work he has done by trying to go back in time. As I have also pointed out in the past, there is no case in Norwegian history that looks like this. But a hundred years ago there was a conflict between fishing and whaling along the Finnish coast and in northern Norway. By regulation, there were people who lost their work in connection with the whaling. The government back then said no, we don't have to compensate for this, but the Storting disagreed. The size said then that this is unreasonable, we have to make sure to handle it better. And it has every one of us as big-time representatives the possibility of today, both by the fact that the law is passed with the ban itself, and – which is of course at least as important today, a day that is primarily about people – by ensuring that compensation and compensation are properly legislated, with an expropriation principle that no one from the right parties has been able to refute in any reasonable way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e1720	I have been sitting and listening to the debate, and I must say that it has both an unreality and a clear cross of unworthiness over it. What we are witnessing today is that representatives of three out of four government parties – representatives after representatives – go to the pulpit and express their support for fur animal nutrition, the importance of it and how you have worked for fur animal nutrition over the years. I'd like to ask these representatives to stop crying crocodile tears today. It is the representatives of the parties who are involved in securing the majority of the bill that has been tabled, because there are other things that are more important to them. It was more important to bring the Left into government than to ensure that the decision taken by a majority of the United Kingdom just two years ago that one should have a sustainable development of the industry, which – after a long, thorough and knowledge-based process – those in the industry put their trust in and made new investments on the basis of. And then it comes to the decision that is being made today, on a historical ban on nutrition. And not enough with that. When the question of compensation comes up – which is the least one should take care of, to take responsibility for the compensation system, not to push it out with wretched wording and say that it gets one back into the regulation – it should even be said that no, the county officials can go around the farms and figure it out. But even in the Storting, you can't say what's unreasonable, even in the Storting, you can't say what's the basis of the compensation scheme. One pushes the bureaucracy and the statesmen in front of him, and then they are the ones to stand there in retrospect and defend the concrete decisions that are taken. When I hear posts from the government parties here, they stretch from the representative of Tetzschner, who interprets the compensation scheme to the point of full compensation, to the representative of Tonning Riise, who does not believe in the compensation scheme at all, and who will actually vote against it, but because there is no one else who is with him, he still votes in favour. It is incredibly important – if someone actually believes what the representative of Tetzschner said, and what the representative of Tonning Riise also argued for – to vote in favour of the fact that there are expropriational principles that must be based, and not what is proposed, that one should not be entitled to full compensation, but only to mitigate the effects.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e1742	There have been a lot of crocodile tears from the technocrats today, where the biggest problem is that they can't understand how to design a law paragraph, and they're able to ask questions about the law paragraphs we've come with. They've had a long, long time to sort out the principle of full compensation. Then we've got a proposal where it's called 'unreasonable rash'. What are some kind of unimaginable rashes? That's 90 pst. by wallpaper cover? It's 80 pst.? That's $4 million. kr in loss? That's five million. kr in loss? That's three million. kr in loss? What's an unimaginable rash? I have some difficulties that I hope the Council of State can clarify a little, because I expect that she has also been in contact with this proposal. If, before a regulation has been adopted, an unreasonably high number of items is discovered, does the Council of State consider that it has the authority of the Stortinge to add new items that will improve the compensation scheme? That's the kind of question we want to answer. I must dwell on the role of the Minister of Agriculture in this matter. For thought, the Minister of Agriculture made a proposition that she did not even want to cover the costs of demolition. That was the starting point of the Minister of Agriculture in this matter. I also have a question for the Minister of Agriculture: What time is it going to be ready for this regulation? I have a suspicion that one of the tactical reasons will come some days after the local elections, but in good time before the Storting meets, with this regulation, so that the Storting should not have the opportunity to intervene and correct, and so that one can continue in large words in the election campaign. We get criticism from the Minister of Agriculture because our questions were too late. The government has indicated since January 2018 that they should ban the industry, and then a press conference will be held to tell us what is the government's policy, a few days before the matter is to be brought before the committee. The conclusion is that we have asked our questions too late. It is simply not a sustainable way to develop policies. When I have heard how many questions there are about this scheme, the government should have solved these questions before they came to the Storting, so that we could be sure of what we are dealing with today, and not just get vague wording. Finally, I would like to say to the representative, Mr Nävra, who was concerned about the role of the Centre Party in this, that we are too animal nutrition, but against predators and that we were very often alone. I think it's an expression that says that the strongest man in the world is the one who's most isolated. A lot of people need to be present for these values.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e1759	With a heavy heart, many of us today are involved in the decision to shut down fur industry in Norway, a legal district industry, a profitable export industry, which in many cases is the main industry of non-profit use, or an important additional industry for many. Tree layers are one of the regions with the largest environment for fur animals and which have been very advanced in the field of good animal husbandry. It is the first time in Norway's history that the Stortinget is moving to the stage of forcing a legal business to be settled – and that after we here in this room as late as in the previous growing period, the opposite was agreed, namely that the industry should be continued. It is a decision that is a very powerful intervention in private property and in nutrition, and that will affect individuals and families and tear away the basis of life. Private property rights, respect for individuals and humility of state power in the face of individuals are fundamental values of a Right-wing human being. That is why it is a minimum requirement that when the country deducts some of the living bread, they should receive a decent settlement for it. Three government councils in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food have since Jelaua said that no fur farmers will suffer financial loss as a result of the closure decision. It's a commitment. Therefore, it has been important for many of us to work for a replacement based on real values and a process based on general principles of legal certainty. Since the improved, but still inadequate, committee setting existed, there is intense work on improvements and further improvements. I refer to the loose proposal. There is a new opening for adjustments if the compensation measurement becomes unreasonable. If that happens, the matter may come back to Stortinget. The size may intervene at any time. As the representative Morten Ørsal Johansen said, the government parties shall follow this case ‘minute by minute’. I would like to say it as clearly as if there are some single farmers who do not arrive and who believe they are getting unfair compensation, they must contact us here at Stortinget. We in the government parties must also have a hand on the steering wheel in the design of the regulation. It's the government's responsibility, but we're going to be close to that work and make sure the industry gets a proper settlement. That solution is in line with the intentions I have mentioned, and involves an assurance of a continuous process in which we, who are engaged in this matter, will have an opportunity to follow up further. That is what makes it possible for me to vote in favour of this resolution.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e1772	NTB sent out a message earlier today entitled ‘Police celebrate the industry they are about to give birth to’. It was really a quite striking title. There is something remarkable about a debate in which one by one from the Right and the Advance Party goes up and celebrates an industry that they will vote later this evening to ban. The posts we have heard from the Right and the Advance Party are perhaps – most striking – a form of kiss of death. We have an alternative, which both the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party have thought was a good alternative in the past: we could follow the solid investigation presented, and the decision made in 2017 that one should develop this industry in a sustainable way and take into account animal welfare. The truth is, it's not real politics we're discussing today. What we're discussing today is a power game about government taboos, and then it doesn't help with subtle attempts at excuses or excuses. Behind all of this it is said that the Right Party and the Advance Party, knowingly and willfully, vote peasants out of their work of life and away from their workplaces because they are to secure the government taboos of the power game associated with the Jeleuk and Granavolden platforms. So-called ‘nutritional’ batches prohibit an entire industry. And it's a little strange: today the word «animal welfare» has been discussed and used, and the left has been particularly concerned about it. Also the representative Eidem Løvaas made an attempt at some sort of attack by pushing animal welfare ahead of him. The question is whether the whole of the Right agrees with the representative Eidem Løvaas when he says that it should be included in the economic discussion. I have interpreted him there to be able to reduce the financial compensation due to animal welfare conditions. But the Minister of Agriculture said in his speech quite clearly that there are no more violations of animal welfare in the fur industry than there are in any other animal husbandry in this country. So what is the reason why exactly this part of agriculture is to be banned? None of the government parties have responded to today's debate. Then it's completely impossible to know what the government parties think about the replacement. Should the mitigating effects of the prohibition being imposed, or should there be full compensation, be addressed by some? So this evening, the size should decide something without knowing what it will mean in terms of full compensation or not. A number of questions have now been raised in the final phase, both by the representative of Gülsvik and by the representative of Pollestad. I expect the Council of State to go up and give some proper answers to some of those questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e1785	Much of the debate today has been about the compensation system. I believe, to the extent that it is fairly clear, that the government parties have presented about the County State's ability to use discretion – which is being hounded by Mr Pollestad – because it is through what we ensure an individual judgement, an opportunity and what is also a prerequisite for the government parties, precisely to give an individual assessment. It's been important to us. That's why we've also spent time on the process. I shall not use many words on that proposal by the representative Pollestad earlier today. During his post he suddenly did not stand behind the whole – a remarkableness – but it gets Pollestad to stand for himself. At least I don't think there was anything more obvious about the opposition's arrangement in this case. Then it's hushed up that the Left cares about animal welfare. Yes, of course we do. 77 pst. in fact, the public agrees that it is important. For our part, it has been important not to have wild animals in cages. We have repeated that on many occasions. We have been clear, both verbally and from this pulpit, that it is natural to follow up when this decision is made, with an import ban, because we understand, of course, that animal welfare in some of the countries that produce fur is not present. Then it's important to stick to that principle. But there is a remarkableness in the hall today. I must say I really wonder when the Workers' Party, high and dark and with constant outcast, is for the liquidation. It just doesn't sound like that to either the representative of Aasland or the representative of Sandtrøen. With a large pondus, it is said that this is something you actually have in your national meeting decision, but you can double-communise so that it monasteries, as if they agree with the Center Party. It's okay enough to talk for the Tribune System, but I think the representatives who have done this should be honest in their performance, because most of us actually have enough memory to remember that the Workers' Party has previously agreed with the Left Party in this matter. It's about respect and saying what you've meant before. If you've changed your position, it's okay, but then you might want to say it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e1794	It's been interesting to listen to the reports from the Center Party today. Because it's supposed to have the Center Party – they have a lot of good rhetorical skills. The representative Heidi Greni is ashamed to be in the main hall on a day when an industry is adopted, and the representative Sigbjørn Gælsvik punishes the parties who will lay down, and then both, of course, made sure in the next breath to mention the government parties. But this criticism affects to just as much the parties on which the Central Party is so dependent in order to come to government power. I did a little exercise while I was sitting in my place. I entered the Google field “The Central Party will reverse”, and there were an incredible number of hits, ranging from reverse the train reform to reverse the increase in the fuel and diesel tax. Now I see that the Center Party has its entire senior team present in the hall, including the party leader, and this is an excellent opportunity to go to the pulpit and guarantee that one will reverse the winding-up of fur animals when one comes into government. Many in the gallery would be happy for such a message. The press is here, who would be able to convey such a message. It's just to go to the pulpit and say that when we get into government, we're going to reverse the winding-up of fur farming.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e1801	It's not that easy to reverse something that's closed. The essence of this matter is that the government statement binds the government parties to prohibit fur-bearing by law. But replacement is not part of the government statement. The size groups are therefore free on that issue. The most interesting post I have heard from the representatives of the government parties is the post from the representative Michael Tetzschner. He said that when interference is the result of state decisions, it must be a real will to settle itself – morally, but he also said legally – through replacements. The representative reviewed the proposal submitted, proposal No. 15, that one should adhere closely to the compensation scheme. Yeah, it was just supposed to be missing, you have to keep up with everything that's going on. So the representative said that the book value of non-realisable capital was not helpful. And it is not limited to it: he said that the compensation scheme should keep people harmless, one should not take away from people anything when there were such political decisions, and he concluded with ‘full compensation’. Full compensation! The party to the concentration has said that the way in which a person loses ownership and the economic basis is of secondary importance, since the effect on business operators is the same regardless of whether ownership is transferred to others by coercion, i.e. expropriation, or not – i.e. a fundamental argument that this is really an expropriation matter. What is interesting is that the proposition states on page 43, in Chapter 9, ‘Notes to the legal provisions’, which is what § 3: ‘The provision does not require full compensation for fur breeders who may suffer financial losses as a result of the prohibition.’ No one from the government parties has commented. In a later trial, this is an important premise: what did the legislator think? I would like to ask that both the representative Tetzschner and the Council of State go up and clarify whether that passus is still standing. Because if that doesn't happen, we have a fairly high degree of ambiguity in the whole case. The Labour Party and the Centre have tabled a proposal, proposal No. 1, which takes this into account, and if the representative of Tetzschner is to be consistent, he must at least vote in favour of that proposal, because that is completely in line with his principle of full compensation. It serves the Workers' Party to the credit that one is on such a proposal, and it promises well in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e1823	There are a lot of people who have come up here today and regret that you should vote as you actually do. To that I have to say, it does not matter that one regrets what one is going to vote. It's voluntary what you want to vote in this room, so if you're sorry, you might want to be a little bit careful with using those words. That's a lot of other things you should be sorry about today. It may seem that the Left, who has now received a victory, obviously has as poor accommodation and prestige in government as they do in the people, because no one is going up and defending the victory of the Left on this pulpit. Even the minister doesn't. That's special. There are many in the Right who say that it's heavy, but that the unity of the government platform is the most important thing. Yes, but the consensus is about winding up, it is not about giving a bad order to those affected by the liquidation, so it must be possible to make other choices. Even the government party Right's own representative Tonning-Rise is slaughtering this system from this pulpit, and I think there are quite a number of others in the government parties who are actually doing that. The representative, André Skjelstad, refers to the Workers' Party as high and dark in this matter. I don't understand. I do not understand the charge of double communication either. The working party is quite clear on its resolution on winding-up, but it is possible to have two thoughts in your head at the same time. I also thought the representative of Skkelstad understood that. One thing is what you do with the industry – yes, we are to liquidate it, but number two is what you do with those who are affected by this liquidation. There are also government parties that have the opportunity to do something, to ensure that there are not as unreasonable an outcome for individuals and individual families as it is now. So to the Horseman: The settlement is now in progress. One should like to start talking about future government negotiations – I look forward to new government negotiations, which are not about the parties that are currently in government – but the liquidation is now going on, not after the next major elections, and we have to deal with that. So there's another attempt to misjudge this debate -- because it's so hard to stand up for what you're actually doing now, because you know that the consequences for individuals are so big. But you have an opportunity – even if you vote for winding up – to make it both decent and fair, and you can do that by voting correctly today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e1838	I want to associate a few words with the use of expropriation legal analogy. I heard one of the representatives say that expropriation is about as difficult to say as to implement, but that was not the main point here. My point is this: it is now held as a principle by part of the Workers' Party's representatives that we should use expropriational analogy in these kinds of situations, and it is argued that this situation is unique. Yes, it's a unique situation, but not quite unique – we've been in some similar situations in the past. If it is true that these principles should be applied to these kinds of problems, is it the case that they should have been used in the context of the Beach Act, which limits the use of land in the beach zone? Is it true that this kind of principle should have been used – they were not used, but that they should have been used – when the fish was closed? Then they were not used. Is it the case that these principles should be applied to one of the next issues we are going to deal with here today, namely the issue of the traffic light system for aquaculture? If this is a principle for the Workers' Party, I look forward to the proposal that we should apply expropriation law principles relating to the reduction of aquaculture at 6 p.m.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e1847	There has been a long debate, and I have to explain one thing first. I got packing in the hall here because I was out for a little while. Even a state council needs to go out for a little while, I have to say. So to the representative Geir Pollestad: He asked questions – now I see he's not in the room either – about when I'm going to bring the prescription. I will make the regulation when this debate is over and we have received the decisions to be taken. Then you have to make a prescription. One has been subject to decisions, various decisions, including those of the Centre Party, until now. This is the legal aid that has been asked. As I said earlier, we got the question Friday and would come back to Monday. The order was that the committee, as I said, had no point of view as to what a legal text should be like or the framework for it. In the guidance to me as the State Council, the counsellor says about the relationship with the Storting, paragraph 3.1.6: ‘The Presidency stated in letter of 31 October 2003 that the Committees and Party Groups should show a certain understanding that, in some cases, the departments are unable to meet such requests, in particular when the assistance will require extensive work.’ When it comes to creating a legal text, to produce a quality-guaranteed legal text with a certain minimum of investigation, which one has been involved in in this room, both economically, administratively and legally, I think the hall will understand that it was almost impossible in the middle of a weekend. To the representative Cecilie Myrseth, who says that it's not said what we're going to do: if one were to join in the lines, the Christian People's Party and I, as the Council of State, clearly said that we are in favour of the reconciliation we're part of. Then I was asked about the expropriation discussion. It was also a discussion when we were going to make the bill, but one is uncertain about what is going to be the result, the valuation, the net income. One depends on the fur price. It's bad now. If you want to take future income, what does it become? If we were to go for today's situation, expropriation might be so low that it would be uncertain, actually. The value could be so bad that there was not enough reason to go on with it. That's why we've chosen book value and not expropriation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e1865	Norwegian policy has had a development under this government that there is little reason to rejoice over. Last weekend we had quite a lot of visits at home, and it was – especially when it rented out a bit on Saturday evening – very many, from different parties and quite different backgrounds, which unimaginably took on how they felt that it was more important today for the different government parties to have one say than to make decisions that were appropriate for people in the country. I have thought a lot about it afterwards, and today I have been sitting in my office and working and listening to this debate. Then I have to say – when I see all the crocodile tears and listen to the posts coming from the government party – that there is reason to think about how politics is being implemented and developed in Norway today. The party of progress must have a say in the tollcase. Whether it seems the environment and people in the cities and such – dirty au, the Progress Party must have one say. The Christian People's Party will probably have a say in abortion later today. If it seems to women in this country – no, it’s not that important; they’ll get one saying. And today, listen to me now, the left is going to get its saying, by taking the living bread from 200 that has been doing legal business. I thought, in my naivety, that the Right Party was a party occupied by business, by ownership, by the individual, and that they were against state abuse of power. But no: what we see today, must be power use – to use that word – of the worst kind. In my home country, Sogn and Fjordane, there are twelve beautiful farmers who lose their livelihood so that the Left will have one say. It's fine, for the Left. It's not that nice for those who can't keep their income and their livelihoods. When, in addition, through today's debate, one finds that there is not one, including the Council of State, which can say how to compensate for what is being taken from these farmers, the family, who have invested millions in a completely legal diet: then one has to ask yourself if it is such that Norwegian policy is about to fall under this government. It is sad to hear this debate today for those of us who are busy with a living democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e1877	There is something strange about this debate. So the Labour Party is using its speaking time here today not to place the least emphasis on celebrating that the government is actually implementing the Labour Party's policy. The Workers' Party does not take time for it to be a great victory for animal welfare, which the Workers' Party is for, and will vote for. It's not for the Workers' Party to take into account the populace, which gets its will fulfilled today. So the Center Party is picking up and talking hot at the same tactic that Aasland's representative mentioned. Then the same Arnstad is coming out – of all things – the abortion law, which we are going to debate later today. But on this issue, this tactic – I call it the Granavolden platform – is precisely leading to the implementation of the Central Party's policy. This game of power with which the representative of Aasland has chattered has, in effect, led the Workers' Party to a decision that the Workers' Party never received. From this we can learn that for the opposition it is far more important to criticize the government than to mark the victories that the government delivers them in a barrel. Besides, we can probably learn that it doesn't keep two thoughts in your head at the same time to hang on to the turns here.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e1888	I've followed this debate with interest and I've been thinking that this is a sad day, because when we get the decision that we're likely to get in this case, and when we're going to discuss the abortion law later on today, both cases are examples that when we have a majority government, it can sometimes happen -- it's also happened when we've been in majority government -- that very small parties get a say in what it's not a majority in the Grand Duchy. I think that's a cross of thought we're going to take with us, even though we're getting a partial impact on our proposal on fur animals in this case, but only almost. I would then like to thank the representative, Mr Grimstad, who said that the government is now implementing the Labour Party's policy. All of our speakers have pointed out what we have decided in the case of fur animals and directed liquidation over time. But there are few people who have referred to the second part of the decision, who clearly say that they should receive proper compensation. That is what makes us not satisfied with the decision that will be taken today, which means that we have our own proposals that will take care of it. This has been a strange debate, because on the government parties – except the Left – it sounds as if we should feel sorry for the representative Ørsal Johansen, because he has a difficult day, and that we should feel sorry for the representatives of the Right and the Christian People's Party, who have a bad day at work. But those for whom this day is evil are those who drive fur animals, are they? It is for the sake of those we should show the decency that when there is a majority in order for them not to be able to operate with that industry in the future, they must at least get proper compensation and proper treatment from the community. That's what the main discussion is about. There are proposals to enable decent transitional arrangements and compensation to be provided. As Minister of Agriculture, I have also met many fur farmers. I've met fur farmers long after that too, in Westfold, and I've seen that there are people who run a serious and professionally well-run business. Then it becomes a decision to wind it up in the future. Should we not then make sure that they receive decent compensation? This is what this issue is all about now — treating people with respect, especially when the National Assembly is doing something as dramatic as we are today, for some individuals and an industry in Norway. During this debate I have registered all the members of the government who have been up and complained. As I said at the outset – and must conclude with – it seems to be the seventh and last time that all the members of the government are behind the government’s proposals, but it is obvious that most people are very far behind the government’s proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e1901	I am a little surprised at the rhetoric of the Workers' Party in this matter. There are no parties that have such a hard, tight and damp party as the Workers' Party has. The way they choose to attack the government parties is quite strange – and to be completely honest, a little stunned. What Norway is doing today is not unique. We are not the only country in the world that says that fur farming is not in line with good animal welfare. Nor is it the case that all forms of industrial activity are allowed in Norway, even though this is the case in some countries today. The major community assesses what is ethically sound operation. This is not an industry that became controversial this year or last year or in the past. It has been controversial for generations, and it is because there have been professional discussions about the operation is compatible with good animal welfare. The Norwegian veterinary association does not believe so. Neither does the Animal Ethics Council nor the Veterinary Institute. In 2003 the animal welfare report, St.meld. No 12 for 2002–03, adopted in the Storting, where it was announced that it should be considered that the level of fur animals should be discontinued in the absence of breeding improvements in the health status of the animals during a 10-year period. This industry has been heavily debated for years, and the large majority of the population is against it. More and more batches have been exposed to the industry, e.g. The working party. This has also contributed to creating uncertainty. Running under such a debate – and more breeders have experienced criminal relationships in their facilities – I understand that is tough. I also understand that it is tough, what is happening here today, when it is decided that the industry will be closed in Norway. Personally, I believe that the professional assessments suggest that this is right, but that you should of course get a replacement. I have not heard the Workers' Party ready to explain why their proposal for compensation is better than the Government's proposals. They will therefore vote in favour of a proposal they themselves cannot explain. It does not sound very appropriate. We are adopting a compensation scheme today, and we are saying that we should follow it closely, and that it should be adjusted if there is an unreasonable outcome in the overall measurement of compensation. It is the sound and predictable way to do this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e1914	An application for sick leave has been made by Mr Åshild Bruun-Gundersen from 13 June onwards. This application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The representative of the goods, Ingelinn Lossius-Skeie, is proposed to meet during the period of leave. – It is also considered to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e1927	At one point I fully agree with Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum: It is very unwise to shut down this industry. At the same time, of course, I'm going to vote to do that. It's the dilemma of being in government and being bound by a government platform, but that's something we've gone into with open eyes. I'm against shutting down the industry, but I'm for those who have to stop, to have full compensation, as others have been. I am actually a little pleased that the noise that has been on this matter for a while now has led the government parties today to present a proposal that clearly signals that no one is going to suffer any loss here. In addition, there have been many from the government parties who have been relatively crystal clear, as the Minister of Agriculture and Food has heard, when detailed regulations are to be made. So to the Workers' Party's proposal and rhetoric: It is quite remarkable that one sees oneself earned and believes it is necessary that the Stortinge should adopt something as set out in the Basic Law § 105. Expropriation type intervention – yes, we have § 105, and it applies. The Minister of Agriculture and the Government know that it applies and is there, and that they cannot make a regulation that violates the Basic Law § 105. This is a pointless proposal. It is not necessary to decide to follow expropriational principles when an expropriational case is being carried out. That is already the case. Legal practices vary in a number of areas as regards the compensation provided. There have been people who have had a building they would sell in a few years, and then it will be protected. There are some people who have had a couple of decks with areas that are regulated for housing construction, they have a villa there and they might start thinking about selling, and then all of a sudden, the local government finds it necessary to reregulate into LNF territory. Then they can't sell. So in terms of limitations in availability, we have a lot of case law, and what is proposed by the Workers' Party is completely meaningless, because it is the law applicable under Section 105 of the Constitution. Finally, a question to Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum: Can he, as the next speaker, confirm what I suppose is a matter of course, that when there might be so bad in the country that he will enter into government negotiations with the Workers' Party in 2021, then lifting this law will be an inevitable requirement, so that these farmers can continue to carry on fur-bearing activities in a government where Tryggen Schlagsvold Vedum might be involved?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e1940	When one has been sitting and listening to the speeches from the Advancement Party and the Right today, it seems that it is more important to secure the State than to secure the people. It is more important to secure the country than to secure the business, the people affected by this major change. Councillor Oluk V. Bollestad has been challenged quite specifically: how does this turn out? In her own proposal, it says that one should not have ‘any claim to provide full compensation for fur breeders who would have to suffer financial losses as a result of the prohibition’. So her starting point was that it's perfectly okay that fur breeders suffer financial loss, and she clarifies it very clearly. But then the government parties have put forward a proposal today that ‘if there is an unreasonable outcome in overall measurement’, one should look at it. Then there have been concrete examples of Horpestad losing 5 million. kr. Is that an unreasonable verdict? It should be possible for a Council of States to respond. If individual performers lose million amounts – is it unreasonable, or is it reasonable from the viewpoint of the government? As the Council of State and as the Government, you owe some clear and clear answers to the people affected by their policies. And Steinar Reiten, a representative of the government parties, said in the debate earlier today: nobody knows what this compensation scheme will be like – I repeat, no one knows what this compensation scheme will be like. Then at least the council should go up to the pulpit and clarify whether she thinks it is unreasonable for individuals, single families and self-employed people around Norway to lose millions of dollars – I think it is unreasonable for them to lose hundreds of thousands as well, but one should at least be clear enough that of course no individual should be left with a million bill ‘thank you’ the so-called morning gift, as Erna Solberg so casually called it when she laid down Norwegian fur nutrition. We have the founding fathers behind us. There were eleven basic principles they established at the beginning of their work. And principle no. 9 new restrictions on the free movement of persons shall not be permitted. Now there is a right-wing government that actually imposes restrictions on the freedom of nutrition on a legally negotiable product in Norway. State Councillor Oluk V. Bollestad said it quite clearly himself: they are not going to impose any ban on selling, using or wearing fur – one should only have a ban on producing it in Norway and move production to other countries. It is very, very unwise, and the main Council of State can now do is to clarify to those affected: Is it unreasonable, or is it reasonable that individual families are left with a million bill?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e1951	I must start my post by saying that I think this is a heavy day. It's hard to be in Stortinget, mainly because I think it's fundamentally wrong to put down an industry. I also think it is wrong to impose a business ban on a legitimate, functioning and unsubsidized industry. Yet we are in the Right honest that this is one of our greatest victims in our reign. We are criticized by the Labour Party and the Center Party for being honest from the pulpit and telling us a little about how this is felt, and how it feels to the farmers and fur farmers. It gives cause for concern in itself. But there was too much pressure on the fur industry and for closure. The trials carried out by the industry itself, the experiments carried out by individual farms to improve animal welfare, were not good enough. The political pressure was too great. Although we knew that this day would come, it is nevertheless very difficult to swallow such a loss. The centre party talks a lot about winning in government – that power struggles, power positions, and also wins, as the representative Navarsete calls it, are more important than politics. I remember when the Central Party was in government and the representative of Navarsete and the Center Party defended that it was right to lay down local hospitals around the district of Norway. It created a big debate, and the Central Party said it was the price to pay, it was the compromise to sit in government with several parties. That's also what the Right said in this case. We never wanted to lay down a diet, never wanted to lay down the fur animal nutrition, but here we are today. Then I would say that the solution and the replacement we have now come with, not least with the development we have seen in the last day, makes it much easier to vote for this today. It makes it much easier to defend this today. Getting a simple replacement arrangement with two lines under the answer is not as simple as the Centre party claims. Over the past 24 hours, they've changed their solution and order three times. In addition, we see that the Workers' Party and the Centre are split in terms of what's the best solution. I am pleased that the government and the department will closely follow the case and the compensation system. If it gives unreasonable results, they will come back and orient and take care of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e1966	It may be approaching the end of the debate – but the debate is most remarkable, and it is unclear when it comes to compensation. I believe that the debate also underlines that the government has put forward a legislative proposal where they do not fully see the dimensions and consequences of what they have proposed. They propose a law ban, but do not know how to design the compensation. That is the reality. I think that's a shame. When the representative Hagen took the floor, I listened with interest. Sometimes – it’s not often – I wish he were right, but this time he’s wrong. The whole department, the state council, his own government strongly argues against the fact that there is an expropriation legal basis in this case. That's the main argument for not taking that into account. That is why we have proposed that that relationship should be included in this matter, precisely to provide security, just to provide predictability, just to remove the uncertainty that is there. And when representatives like Hagen, with the experience and insight he has, are wrong, there might be a basis for others in the Storting to be misled on that point as well. Because it is very clear, and that is what is also one of the demanding things about the situation now: the commitment – the legal regulation of the compensation scheme, which is not currently taking place, of the legislative proposal that exists. In the proposition, the government writes that they agree with the views that have been expressed, that there is a close link between the proposed legislative ban and the compensation system that is being established, but they do not take the consequences of it. Then it is quite right, as the representative Lundtigen points out, that it is emphatically stated in the proposition as a basis for Section 3, and I also allow myself to quote: «the provision does not require full compensation for fur breeders who may suffer financial losses as a result of the prohibition.»; There is nothing, neither in the comments of the government parties nor in the proposal they have made today, which repeals it in the proposition. That is the problem; it is a problem. I would like to hear the Council of State interpret how this is to be seen now, in the light of what the government parties have proposed. I expect someone to deal with this with such great authority. Because I see nothing in the proposal that actually follows it up. We're going to draw our proposal number. 16, just to make sure there's no doubt about it. Our primary position has always been that of our proposal No. 1, which we have with the Center Party, and then we stand for it. Then we release a discussion, and we don't have to try to approach what might have been a majority in the Storting. But we are clear that there are expropriation legal issues that should apply.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e1984	I note that representatives from the government parties continue to process their personal views on how the compensation system should be understood, at the latest by the representative Carl I. Hagen, who said that what has been presented would mean full compensation, that no one should suffer any loss, and that a proposal that there are expropriation principles to be applied is an unnecessary proposal. This was said in spite of the fact that the State Council responsible stood on the interlocutory only minutes earlier and argued that it is not necessarily wise to base expropriational principles, because it can provide lower compensation than the book value, which is otherwise a relatively remarkable statement and a remarkable line of argumentation. It is stated in the proposition, which is a basis for the compensation scheme, that the purpose of the compensation is to mitigate negative effects – not to provide full compensation. On the contrary, it states that the provision does not require full compensation for fur breeders who may suffer financial losses as a result of the prohibition. Therefore, it does not help what individual representatives had to interpret. The point is what is taken into account in the decisions taken by the Storting. That is why, first of all, one should vote in favour of the proposal that the principles of expropriation should be applied. I would like to ask the Council of State to come up here and clarify whether what she has put forward for the Storting is still valid, and that it is not a premise that there should be full compensation – or whether there is now a change, based on the proposals that have been put forward in the Chamber. So to the representative Heggelund, who said that there are regulations of Norwegian society, and that there are not all kinds of activities that are legal: that kind of argument comes from a representative from the Right – I actually thought that the Right Party was engaged in nutrition. It is historic that one today imposes a ban on the use of a legitimate industry, where imports from abroad are still to be lawful, but their production in Norway must therefore be prohibited. The centre party has previously taken responsibility. Despite the fact that there have been batches that have been involved in the controlled closure of the fur animal industry, we have provided predictability and processes that have led to responsible decisions in the Storting on sustainable development. It was turned over overnight as a result of the fact that there was someone who would have left into the government. This is a sad day, but I hope that it is still possible to turn around and vote in order for one to have at least a proper compensation scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e1997	I want to start by complaining about the farmers in the gallery and those who follow the shipment online that I didn't fight for them any more in 2018, when the real battle was over. After the adoption of the Jeløya platform, I have traveled around and met, talked to and listened to worried farmers to find out how best to clean up after us. I have always pointed out to the agriculture ministers who have said that farmers should not suffer loss. I have always had regular meetings with the parliamentary leader, my party leader and my party colleagues, where I have expressed my concern and taken up concrete examples from fur farmers about possible unfair results. For me, it has been particularly important to make sure that the farmers who are forced to lay down their industry get a real compensation. Government council Bollestad doesn't exactly make it easier to vote for this when she can't answer yes to the question from Pollestad about the example of the farmer Horpestad's property loss of five million. kr is an example of an unreasonable outcome. I still choose, despite the response from the Council of State, to trust the assurances that I have received internally in my party, that the farmers will be properly compensated, and that representative Ørsal Johansen confirmed from the pulpit, that five million. kr is a clearly unreasonably unreasonably rash. Former agriculture ministers have assured the industry that no one will suffer any loss as a result of the ban, and I expect this to be the leader in the work on the regulation. I have to be honest and say that right now I can't say how it will turn out for the individual farmer, but after this work is done, when the countymen have been inside and individually assessed compensation for each farm, I have a clear expectation that the result is that I should be able to see the fur farmers in my eyes. Is there something I've regretted in politics, it's that I on Jelaua failed the fur farmers, and that I didn't fight more than what I did when the battle at that time stood. That shame I will feel for the rest of my life, and to me it is not an alternative to fail them once again. I'm going to follow the work on the regulation in the department very carefully, and if it turns out that there are such unreasonable results, I'll be the first to demand this matter back in Stortinget. I know that many of my colleagues in the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party will also do so, both magnificence representatives and county leaders.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2008	This has been an incredibly interesting debate. For a few hours, we even had a monotonous collapse that was to wind down the fur industry, until the Senter party withdrew from proposal No. 16th@item: inlistbox So now the Labour Party has drawn whole proposal No. 16th@item: inlistbox I think that made sense, because you had to either do it or draw proposal no. 1 in the settings. But I want to ask some questions about the sloping security that is with the representatives of the Central Party in particular, and the representatives of the Workers' Party, about the compensation system proposed by the two parties. How's that going to turn out? Are they sure that more people are better off with the system they are calling for? I think there is almost a need for representatives from the two parties to go up and confirm it on the platform and say, yes, we guarantee that more fur breeders will get a better deal with our system. Why is that important? Well, it's not just politically important – it's because the system that the opposition parties are calling for does not have a safety valve. It is only that proposal – they are absolutely sure that it will be good, and then there is nothing to fall back on. Our proposal is to do as it stands, and in addition we ask that it be followed closely, and that it be possible, if necessary, for the Storting to intervene if it is not good enough. So with regard to the proposal from the Workers' Party and the Center Party, I need an assurance that it guarantees that more fur-bearing farmers get better settlement than they get with our proposal. Then I also want to just link a little more glint-in-eye comment to the quote to the representative Pollestad. He called it a saying, but it was probably an Ibsen-quote when he said, "The strongest is the one who stands most alone." Then I want to answer with another Ibsen-quote, from Peer Gynt: «He was too strong. There were women behind him."
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2023	I want to start by answering the representative, Roy Steffensen. When I just hear the number 5 million. I fully agree that this is unreasonable. Then the issue – and then I don't want to take the name of who has that wallpaper – is that I don't know the background of the number, and that's a challenge when I'm going to answer. But five million. kr is fundamentally unreasonable. I'm just going to take an example so you understand the background of what I'm saying now: two fur farmers have both 1 million. kr in loans. One pays the loan, the instalment, and gets it written off every year. The other gets depreciation and only pays interest. One will be left with debt, and the other will be left with much less debt. How are we going to evaluate the two fur farmers? That's one of the challenges we're all involved in this practice. I was asked about the compensation scheme. To Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum: The compensation scheme is designed as set out in the proposal, with the changes resulting from the majority position. In addition, we will follow the scheme closely and consider whether it is unreasonable – and then I said ‘unreasonable’ and replied to Roy Steffensen – cases, but I need to know what is behind the unreasonable in individual cases. This is what we're going to make the regulation from, the decisions that have been made here, with what's in the proposition. There has been a long debate, and there has been a demanding debate. We've used all the men, and that's the compensation scheme that's the big challenge. The Christian People's Party is behind what we've been standing behind all the way – the Granavolden platform. Although it wasn't our policy, political work is sometimes that it's about more than one thing. Then there is not one issue that is more important than another, but it is the issues that are commonally important for a platform.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2034	The representative Steinar Reiten has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2039	The representative Battle Violence Vedum quotes me quite correctly, and I appreciate the exorbitantness. But the representative Schlagsvold Vedum has also been the Council of State and knows very well that when the Stortinget takes decisions on the law, it is very often decided that regulations are to be drawn up at the same time. Then it's not the Storting given to know the details. It is precisely the regulation that is to be given, and it is the prerogative of the Council of State. It happens in the department. That's what Schlagsvold Vedum knows very well. That's why it's actually true when I say that it's not the Stortinget given to give the details at this point, it's going to be in the regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2044	The representative, Geir Pollestad, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2049	I just want to give you one explanation of vote first. The centre party, as I have said before, comes to vote for any proposal that could improve the situation for the fur farmers. We will then vote subsidiaryly for SV's proposal No. 6-11. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party, which is our primary proposal, will empower the government to design a compensation scheme that covers the financial loss. We will not support the proposal from the government parties. We're afraid it's as hollow and as much juxtaposition as the press conference we had in the Vandrehallen here before. We have been given a clarification during the debate, and that is that the Council of State believes that 5 million. kr in loss is unparalleled. That is the closest thing we have to clarify to the Government Party its proposal in this debate. That's not good enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2058	The President would point out that the representative should probably use a different word from ‘jux’ on the proposals of other parties, it is not considered to be a parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2063	This has been a long and extensive debate, and that also sparks the debate. What makes the day heavy for us in SV, which supports the closure of fur farming, is that the government does not take good care of the people who are left after the decision. For us it's a great day for animal welfare, but then he gets sad because the government isn't willing to make up for it. There is something paradoxical about the fact that a party like SV, which has been for liquidation, will have a significantly better compensation scheme for those who remain, while the government is on the very opposite side – the majority of the parties in the government were against closure, but when it is a fact, it is completely in the blue what should be the compensation scheme for the people who are left. For me, it's a totally incomprehensible situation when you don't want to say what type of valuation you're going to use – we have a proposal that the cost value should be taken into account. One is not willing to say that if actors do not get into other work, they get compensation – as we have a proposal: that it should extend over three years. Or what about those who are in their 60s when this final decision is, in 2025, and who have poor prospects of getting a job afterwards – what if they also get a relationship with the retirement age, as we also suggest in this case? Or what if you can't establish a principle that a non-debt shouldn't be re-debt as a result of closure? And not least: one is not willing to say that now work is going to start on banning the import of fur from abroad. Then one of the strange things is that it's just not going to happen in Norway, but it's okay to import it from abroad. What kind of animal welfare principle, then, is one that stands for? So one is not willing, from Stortinget, to set a direction for the winding-up process. That's what hurts this thing. There are some long lines that the Storting must stick to today, both past and future. There will be situations where we will introduce bans, make changes, change the system and so on. Then it's not important to say that we should never implement anything like this in the future, but that we have proper arrangements to take care of the people who are losing this. That's what the long lines are, and that's why I thought the government has failed in its mission.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2074	The called alternate of the Telemark County, Christian Thinning Bjørnø, now takes the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2079	The fact that a number of people were going to go in for a decision to shut down fur nutrition, does not mean that a doctor in the cards, even though it has not been long since a decision was taken to reverse it, and that one should also bet on animal welfare. Today, we have been confirmed by the Council of State that there is no inferior animal welfare in fur production than in other industries. Then the next question is, what will follow this farce here today? What would the organisations that want to ban industry to other industries argue with? Is it the next chicken farm? Is it egg production? Will it be pig? She knows. For example, articles in different media from different animal protection organisations such as this will not be an isolated case. And with what the Right has shown in this case, with what we've seen from the Right here, it's obvious that giving nutrition bans and using state power to single actors, at least in the districts, they cost no world thing. The reason why I'm referring to the Right Special is that it's the Right that's the leading party in this government, it's the Right that has the Prime Minister, it's the Right that has the most power – just as the Labour Party had the most power in the Red-Green Government. They were six times as big as us, and the Right is probably about twelve times as large as the Christian People's Party and the Left, at least with today's polls. There is no will at all to make up for it. It is not even the will of this speaker to say that no one should suffer financial loss. If someone had said this just a few years ago, an unbelieved person would have gone by. I had never believed it about the Right, the Right I knew for some years ago. But it shows how important it is for Erna Solberg to cling to the power, how important it is for her to sit in the position she has. Then it becomes more important than having a real answer to those who are now refusing to move on. In Copenhagen 5.2 million skins were traded in auction this spring. There has been a strong price increase on fur, and I'm pretty sure that if we take a rubble in this city, there will be no less fur here either, but the animals to be slaughtered for fur will have far worse animal welfare. So what the Left has achieved with this, if you look a little beyond Norway's borders and look a little bit bigger on the case, a jam can look at.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2092	The representative, André N. Skelstad, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2097	The previous representative is in the same way as many before her so sloppy that there was hardly any doubt. But to what has been the basic debate today: Yes, we have respect for the industry, and therefore we also have a compensation scheme that is on the table that we think is good. Then there's a paradox when Knag County brings out the SV system, which I think Tom-Christer Nilsen in many ways showed is a far, far worse order than what's here. It would have been a disaster. Fortunately, we do not agree to that today. It is also remarkable that so few of the representatives of the Central Party mention anything about animal welfare, which is the reason for the matter here today. But I understand that this is probably not what is most advanced in their foreheads.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2105	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2110	The representative Steinar Reiten said that he could not know how to design the regulation. Yes, the comments do not claim full compensation. To Tom-Christer Nilsen – not an expropriational intervention in ownership, because there is not a completely unique situation in the fur industry, compared to the beach law. That's wrong. Private ownership is never completely restricted by the Beach Act – for example. This case concerns a ban on nutrition. That's why it's unique, so it's expropriation that's the important thing. To Carl I. Hagen – vote against the proposal of the Workers' Party and the Center Party because the Constitution § 105 applies, expropriation case. But for Carl I. Hagen – that’s not what the government’s proposal is. To State Council Bollestad – following the practice of expropriation law could be of lower value than the book value. It was a very important post, a very special post. I expect those who are going to appear in later cases, if any, to use the posts of the Council of State at that point.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2121	Terje Sysland thought I was wrong when it came to the Constitution, and that's what he's free to say. I maintain that the Basic Law § 105 is applicable in any case and can be relied on by anyone in any claim for compensation. It is then necessary to consider whether this legislative decision actually involves something covered by Section 105. It's the Supreme Court that decides. It is not necessarily, as has also been said, that if expropriational principles are applied, it will be better than what was proposed today by the parliamentary leader of the Progress Party, because now it is a judgement on what is reasonable, which is to be taken into account. And who will decide if it is reasonable? Well, that's the big thing to do. There have been enough representatives from the government parties who have said very clearly what they think. The state councils have done the same. It is notified that when the first case, the first decision on compensation, is decided by a county councillor, and he believes it is unreasonable, immediately Roy Steffensen, Morten Ørsal Johansen and other representatives from the government parties will receive a telephone call and a message, and then it is up to the Stortinget to take the case back and assess whether it is reasonable. It may well be that the reasonableness is actually better for those who are affected by this than the pussy would have been, and that is a reassuring thing. We've all said no one should suffer a loss, and this comes back if that's how someone is going to do it. Then I want to quote again from the proposal of the Workers' Party. You'd think it was very clear. Except for the principle, it's not that, and I've affected the principle. It says: «The Ministry shall prescribe the detailed rules for such compensation and for conversion grants.» The Party and the Centre shall also authorise the same sitting government to draw up regulations, as it is already required to do. After all, you have confidence that the government will make regulations. Consider whether the guidelines deriving from § 105 lead to a worse result than the majority of this will accept as reasonable. Then there is a reassuring thing for those who are affected by this, that so many of the representatives of the majority parties have expressed what they have said. In the case of a law worker, that is not all that is stated in the proposal – emphasis should be placed on what is in the position of the majority, and what has been said in the Storting from the representatives of the majority. That's where it's become very clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2139	The President assumes that it was the representative of Terje Aasland referred to. The representative, Carl-Erik Grimstad, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2146	The representative, Mr Schlagsvold Vedum, presents this debate as if it were the state rather than the people to be secured. Then it is necessary to say that there is actually a third party in this case, who is unable to pick up the lab and say that here I am. Talking about this debate as if it were about something other than ensuring animal welfare is a mere shadowing of this matter. So someone's talking like it's free for any industry in this country, and now we're going to say no to the first of all of these. No, there are a lot of industries that we don't allow here in the country. There are a lot of industries that we don't want for ethical reasons, and that the majority of society doesn't want. It is ethics that is involved in this matter. It began in 2002, it ends in 2025.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2155	I really wonder what the fur farmers who have followed the debate here today are left with the impression. Here we've been throwing ball at each other and talking down each other's intentions. Has this been informative for the debate? I don't think so. And you've given characteristics of each other that are completely unnecessary. When our proposal and our intentions are referred to by the representative Pollestad as a joke, I find it sad – it was nice that the president pointed it out, I think it was good – and unnecessary. It's not a joke when we put a big improvement in the compensation scheme, with the intention that we want to strengthen it against the fur farmers. Then we have further strengthened it today, with an intention that there will be even better settlement for the fur farmers. And then we'll hear from the representative Navarsete that it hasn't cost us any of the world's things. We've been standing here on the pulpit and saying it's cost us. Well, it's cost us, it's cost us a lot. Then we get from other representatives again: end the crocodile tears! What is the law of this pulpit? I don't think this is worth such a debate. We've done the best, and we want to do the best for those who sit up in the gallery. I think we should all do that together.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2166	I had no hope that today we would be able to turn this hall in terms of shutting down fur nutrition, but I actually had hopes that we would get a decision on full compensation – at least for the direct financial losses, that those who were sacrificed to the government's ban on nutrition would be told today what their future would look like. Unfortunately, we don't get it. We get a decision that they should adjust this if it gives unreasonable results, but the Council of State is not willing to define what is an unreasonable outcome. How much loss is an unreasonable outcome? For me, it's completely unreasonable that they should be at all with an economic loss for Erna's morning gift to the Left, and that they should pay for it all their lives. Is it $100,000 that's an unreasonable loss, is it $100,000? That should be clarified by the Council of State. The representative Hagen said that the Storting should decide what is unreasonable. Then it might be wise to come back to Stortinget with a description of this arrangement before it is implemented. I hope the Council of State can take an assessment of it from this pulpit. Some losses are impossible to compensate for. Decreased quality of life, sleepless nights, mental health problems and long-term sick messages as a result are all natural consequences of being deprived of their livelihood and harassed by these extreme animal protection organisations for many years. But the prospects that for the rest of your life you may have to face financial losses, and for the kids who grow up in this and are affected by these consequences – it will never be possible for us to compensate. The representative of Skkelstad claimed that the centre party had not mentioned the word ‘welfare’. I think most of my post was about it, that this will lead to poorer animal welfare, that it is a very poor decision for the fur animals. The international market is going to demand the same amount of fur. Demand is increasing, it's increased by 10 pst. Prices have increased by 10 pst. the first four months of this year. In Copenhagen, they were unable to deliver and meet their demand. This is an export industry with great potential for expansion. Animal welfare will be worse because we now do not want Norwegian animal welfare rules where it is produced, and one will not have the supervision that we have. I have to say that I am ashamed when the Left, the Green Party and the SV's representatives here today celebrate this attack on all fur farmers.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2181	In this case, errors have been made, and the concept of a follow-up error must be applicable. Two years ago, people -- many of them sitting in the gallery -- got faith in the future. Then came the morning present to the left. Now there are many in this room who celebrate the industry, are happy with the decision, but are concerned about people. Then we have those who celebrate the industry, have a heavy day and vote for it. I am happy to be in a party that supports the industry and is voting against this pointless proposal on winding up. I have never seen a bill from a government, regardless of its colour, where the sole proprietor risks going bankrupt as a result of the lack of legal protection in the bill. In fact, the government's proposal for a regulatory home is to ensure the State against the legal protection of those affected by the ban for full compensation. A regulation can be scalded and elected by any government, no matter what the Storting may mean, even the predator case, where it is even said that you get full compensation according to the rules of the law. We have repeatedly seen that the regulation has been balded and chosen with just what you think is right. Who, then, has listened to those who have taken this decision when the Ministry of Justice's law department considers that fur farmers are not entitled to full compensation because this is an industry where it has long held uncertainty? However, the decision to raise the deficit in 2017 – one year before the coup d'état of government negotiations – was just predictability for continued operation. Constitutional protection is there to protect citizens from the law of the state, not the other way around. This basic legal protection seeks to circumvent the Ministry of Agriculture and Food in the furthest animal case by means of legal acts. When citizens' legal protection becomes a balancing position for the government, we are on dangerous roads, and then democracy is released. I think that's the dimension most people have to think about when to make the decision tonight.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2190	The called alternate for East Agder, Ingelinn Lossius-Skeie, is now taking the seat. The representative Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2197	Carl I. Hagen said absolutely crystal clear that no one should suffer loss. That was his main score. Then it would be interesting to get the Council of State, Olaug V. Bollestad, who is the Council of State responsible, to say the same. Can the Council confirm Carl I. Hagen has said no one should suffer loss? Or can't the Council of State confirm it? And then there's one final point: the rule that's going to come has to come now. You have to be quick and get that prescription out very, very quickly. Governments must instruct the ministry to get it out before summer holidays. You have to work as much as when you saved Sylvi Listhaug when she became a councillor because she had worked at First House. Then you worked day and night to save her. Now the ministry has to work day and night to get that regulation out, so that people know what they can do, so that you don't have to go many months – days and weeks – with uncertainty. Those who are in this demanding situation are not we who are sitting in this hall, they are the ones who have this as a living bread. The regulation must be put in place quickly – before summer, so that those who are actually affected know what they have to do with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2204	The representative of Terje Aasland has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2210	We need a clear clarification from the Council of State. On page 43 of the proposal, it says that the purpose of the compensation is: ‘to mitigate the adverse effects of the prohibition on breeders and the provision does not require full compensation to breeders of fur who may suffer financial losses as a result of the prohibition.’; Has this been lifted as a result of the proposals of the Government Parties – proposal No. 15 – presented today? It has to be possible to answer that. If not, we must assume that it will result in settlement that ends with some fur farmers having to charge for financial loss. It's the hard part. That's the hard part. That is what makes – as the representative of Grimstad – there is no reason to use the staging room to celebrate what is now happening. There's every reason to be concerned and take this very seriously when it doesn't get more prepared than it's done to now.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2220	The reason I take the floor is that the representative Reiten said we didn't talk about animal welfare. Yes, animal welfare is important, and it was carefully assessed in 2016 and 2017 in connection with the work on fur nutrition, where a number, with the Christian People's Party, concluded that this was a nourishment for the future. One stated that the industry would develop with even stricter rules, and they would have a viable future. There's actually a multiple here that's changing. On the right and the right, it sounds as if they had only a few representatives against a very left when negotiating a government statement. They had to go to fur nutrition. No, they didn't have to give in to fur nutrition, but they chose not to give priority to the industry that that year before said should have a safe and good future. That's the reality of this, and then I think the two parties should stand up for it. There should only be a lack of full compensation for the performers when it comes to what is happening in the future. What it says is that they should not have full compensation – unfortunately – but representatives after representatives of the majority have now been in the pulpit and said that they should have a better substitute than if a go for expropriation schemes. They must say that it must be better than that, and then one must assume that it must also include future loss of income. Fur nutrition has always fluctuated in income, but right now fur prices are actually rising.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2229	The representative, Mr Knag Fylkesnes, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2234	A small addition: after the debate and the explanation of vote by various parties, the proposal No. 6-11 is supported by the Red Party, the Green Party, SV, the Labour Party and the Centre Party. It will give the fur farmers a real compensation, which I have been to in previous articles. It will compensate for demolition. It will also ensure that one is not in debt. That means there are only four representatives there to get multiples in this case. Reconciliation will probably take place around noon. 23rd Last@item: inlistbox Some have been in the pulpit and expressed concern about voting with the government party, but now it's about four, so I want to encourage everyone to think carefully about what they're going to vote on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2239	Respect for industries, says the representative Skkelstad from the Left. Just that with respect for industries, we've already had two things about today, where we really see what the Left puts in that phrase. So in the respect that the Left claims to have for the industry, there's a fundamental mistrust that these are not serious businessmen. The representative of Skkelstad sees the lack of mention of animal welfare as a sign that you don't have it in your forehead, as he said. As the debate has progressed here today, it seems that the Left really has it in its forehead, as they themselves say, that animal welfare is not the most important thing for fur farmers, reindeer owners, etc. In the Centre Party, we have the basic vision that Norwegian and Sami farmers, reindeers, fish breeders – and what it may be – set animal welfare higher than themselves. Of course, there are illegal eruptions, but it does in all camps. We have that among both nutritionists, workers and government councils. However, Norway has good arrangements for all of this, and we handle this in a responsible way. We are painfully aware that government platforms cost, and that they give many camels to swallow, but there is actually a difference between camels as well. Camels that criminalise law-abiding nutritionists, or camels that lead to excessive detail management and a need for control of legitimate industries, must be cruelly heavy to swallow. I can't have any sympathy for those who will have to swallow these camels. As a representative of another small industry that continues to experience superiority, it is very easy to get involved in the feelings of the fur farmers, and the abduction they now feel. I really feel that way. That is said earlier here today, and I repeat it: this is a black day.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2248	The representative Arne Nävra has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2253	It was really the representative of Mr. Greni who made me take the floor. She says she cannot understand that SV and others celebrate this infringement. It's a limit to dishonesty, isn't it? Of course, we don't want to celebrate any abuse. That's why we've gone out with these eight proposals on compensation. These eight proposals just want to make sure that you're not left with debt, that you get money for demolition, plus, plus. And there are now four representatives, as the representative of Knag County informed. This debate is primarily about the law put forward, and that is why I called it a happy day for the animals, for those who have worked for the animal protection organisations, not least for the veterinarians who have been concerned about this issue, and I would also like to thank the Left, who have been on this matter on the civil side.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2260	I will first answer the representative Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum: I will do what I can to ensure that the regulation is put to the hearing before the summer. It's to be ordered by the department. So I'm going to assume that what's in the proposition is firm, and that the setting – plus what's adopted in this room of the majority today – is going to be based on the rule that's to come before summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2267	Kristian Aasen is one of the fur farmers who are hit by the ban that I know has been here today and followed the debate, and who has sent a letter to everyone sitting in this room, and told about his situation. He has told us how he is saved from economic ruin, and to be deprived of the basis of life for himself, the cohabiter and the three children, who are in school age. He fears that they will end far below the poverty line for many years to come and become debt slaves, without having anything to pay the debt with. He fears that suicide could be risked among those who are now affected by the decision, and tells about how this is an extreme psychological burden to live with — first, the decision on closure, but most of all the uncertainty about getting out of the economy. I can't say that that uncertainty has become so much less today. There is nothing in the Granavolden platform, as I can understand it at least, which forbids representatives in this room to vote to give full compensation to the fur farmers. On the contrary, the Granavolden platform states that compensation should be provided to prevent the closure of the fur industry from being contrary to the first additional protocol to the EMK, which deals with the right to own property and cannot be taken by the State. Nevertheless, we are in a situation where, after a debate that has been for hours, we have not been able to get a clarification from the government parties on whether they believe that the farmers should have full compensation or not. When I asked André N. Skelstad instead if he thought that the farmers should have full compensation, he said that he thought that the compensation system was clear. That is not a clear answer. The representative, Eidem Løvaas, is trying to represent it as if we don't want to give full compensation. But there is one thing that is important after the Storting has made a decision and one should try to interpret a law – then the point is to find out what the Storting has meant. The centre party has been quite clear in this debate that we will give full compensation to the fur farmers. Government parties have not been clear on this. It's not clear from this debate that the government parties will provide full compensation, because it doesn't actually seem like they want to. Maybe it's too expensive? Yes, there's an uncovered loss here of nearly 1.5 billion. kr. There's a lot of money, but if the state doesn't take that amount, it's going to end up on the fur farmers. It's unfair.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2276	The representative Carl I. Hagen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2281	One of the biggest victories of government parties' big groups in this matter is no one has mentioned, so I thought I would stop by at least making it clear, so you take it with you. That's what the majority comment on page 9 says. ‘The majority of the Committee, the members of the Right, the Party of Advances, the Left and the Christian People’s Party, point out that, with the comments of this majority, the compensation mechanism will be strengthened in line with the Government’s proposal and that the overall framework of 505 million. kronor as indicated in the bill of lading is to be regarded as an estimate.’» So it's changed from the fact that there's an overall framework for what you can use for compensation, that now what's used for compensation, the sum of what's the individual compensation decision, no matter how high that total becomes. It's an estimate. It's the really big winner, which I also think Lundtigen and others could have been attending enough to admit.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2292	The representative Sigbjørn Gülsvik has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2297	The Bollestad Council of State was very brief in its answer to the questions she has repeatedly received from representatives in this debate. She said in the case of the compensation scheme, the proposition is firm. This means that what is stated on page 43 of the Proposition that ‘the provision does not require full compensation for fur breeders’, despite what was said by various representatives from this interlocutory. But then she also says that the setting plus decisions is based on the regulation. Yes, what does that mean on the part of the Council of State when it says that there should not be ‘unreasonable outcomes’? What does that mean? It's 10 million. Do you have an unreasonable verdict? Five million. kr, which has been shown to have Horpestad as a negative outcome, is that unreasonable? Where's the limit of unreasonable outcomes going? I would ask the Council of State to inform the Storting about what is actually the assessment, and what is the ‘impossible outcome’ of what is adopted in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2304	The representative, Marit Arnstad, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2309	The debate has clarified the following: a profitable industry is to be reduced, an industry that has as good animal welfare as other animal husbandry industries, says the Minister for Agriculture. The representatives of the Right Party and the Progressive Party have used the debate to celebrate an industry that they will later be supporting this evening. Nobody knows how much compensation becomes for those who have to leave their jobs. To present an estimate as a guarantee and a victory, as Mr Hagen has done, is at best very optimistic. In reality, none of us know what they will be able to get in compensation, or when they will be told what they will get in compensation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2314	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Two and three.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2330	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2339	There has been a long debate, and it is understandable that not everything is going on – but to the matter we are going to discuss now. First, I would like to thank the Committee for its cooperation in dealing with this matter. Prop. 95 L for 2018-2019, on amendments to the Aquaculture Act, is a follow-up to the Storing Communication on Predictability and Environmentally Sustainable Growth in Norwegian salmon and trout tops. This notification provided the basis for why and how the authorities should regulate the production capacity of Norwegian salmon and trout top sport, discussed and explained, and a proposal for a new system for the regulation of production capacity was presented – the so-called traffic light system. This system shall regulate production in the farming industry with regard to the environmental impact. More specifically, this means that the coast has been divided into 13 production areas, where the production of farmed salmon is offset by the environmental impact, measured in the presence of salmonids. Where the environmental impact is acceptable, green light is provided and increased production capacity may be authorised. However, where the environmental impact is unacceptable, i.e. red light, the production capacity could be reduced. Under the traffic light system, changes in production capacity shall be assessed every two years. In the autumn of 2017, increased capacity was allocated to existing permits and new permits were granted. The question that arises is what happens if the traffic lights are in red. Several operators in the aquaculture industry have argued that the law does not allow the State to reduce production capacity in red areas, and legal action has been brought against the State by decision to reduce production. The majority of Stortinget agrees with the government that there is already a clear basis in existing aquaculture law to reduce production capacity in red areas, as one can also raise it in green. We believe, however, that it is an advantage that this home is clarified in the law through wholesale treatment. It will reduce legal uncertainty, reduce incentives for litigation and increase the legitimacy of the traffic light system. However, the opposition believes that the proposition is under-explained and wants it to be returned to the government. There is no basis for this. Firstly, as I have already done, the proposed amendment to the law does not imply a change in the current law. It's just a preparation. Secondly, future capacity reductions will be implemented through a regulation, which is the subject of a general consultation. Thirdly, the technical basis for the reduction is transparent and, fourthly, the validity of the regulation may be reviewed in the courts. Finally, I would like to say that these tools were already on the ground when the Stortinget joined Meld. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2366	Marine industry is one of our most important industries with the potential to contribute to further value creation and employment, especially along the coast. The industry depends on a good management system and predictability in order to develop further. The size has adopted a traffic light system to contribute to sustainable growth and predictability of industry. The coast is divided into 13 production areas. There is broad political agreement on the traffic light system based on the principle that the overall impact of the industry on the environment is to govern future growth. However, the system must be knowledge-based, transparent and legitimate. It is a drastic measure to reduce the nutritional basis of the traffic light system. That is why it is our responsibility as a great deal to ensure that legal certainty is respected and that the legal basis is clear. It is therefore with some wonder that when the government sees the need to clarify the basis of the law, they choose to send the bill to the hearing with a time limit that is significantly shorter than the minimum time limit in the investigation manual. The Ministry of Justice and Defence points out that the hearing period is very short and should have been justified in the letter of hearing. The law will also come a few months before it can have consequences for the industry. Such a procedure testifies more to the panic of notified actions than to the predictability of the industry in the form of well-established framework conditions. The Labour Party also notes that the Law Association disagrees with the fact that Section 9 of the Aquaculture Act provides a clear basis for collective downgrading. Nor can the Association of Lawyers join the Constitutional Review of the Department. This should have been better investigated before the proposal was sent to the hearing, and the consultation period should allow for a real opportunity for stakeholders to properly evaluate the proposals. It may also create new unforeseeability when any reduction does not need to be anchored in an expert group, a technical council or research, as also emerged from the consultation. The Labour Party is also uncertain whether the proposed adjustments will reduce the possibilities for possible actions against the State – what was actually the purpose of the legislative work now being dealt with here in Stortinget. It is very resource-intensive — and it is also stated in the proposition — both for industry and for the public to execute or follow up lawsuits. The Labour Party therefore proposes that the bill be returned to the government. It is also important to support breeders who are able to operate environmentally soundly and with a low lice level over time. We are therefore asking the government to design the derogations so that those who operate well are able to get through – in the narrowest sense of the exceptions. I am promoting the proposals that we are behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2387	The representative Ruth Grung has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2392	Today we are going to deal with a far-reaching provision, but it is a provision that is relatively simple. I can quote from the bill: ‘Where necessary in the interests of the environment, the Ministry may, by regulation, modify the scope of authorisations and reduce the possibility of using authorisations in one or more specified areas.’;» It is a relatively straightforward determination. It's not a creepy complicated determination. It is clear – and has been clear for two years – what the purpose of the provision is, and there is no doubt in the preparatory work of this law as to what the purpose of the provision is. There is therefore no reason to say that this is neither surprising nor particularly complicated to understand for those who are involved in it. At the same time — but due to the decision far back in 2016, when the notification of aquaculture was addressed — this is a significant intervention in the operation of each breeder. I'm still here waiting for the proposal that expropriation law conditions should be used by analogy in this case, because here, in fact, there are even greater values in circulation than what we talked about in the previous case, at least economically. We in the Right support this clarification, although we also believe that it was the basis of the existing law. And there's no doubt that a relatively total size has given this order. So I would like to comment briefly on the proposal that is a loose proposal that SV has put forward today: as far as I am aware, there is a work going on looking at other criteria to complement the traffic light system, and we in the Right will at least not go into it until it is properly investigated. In this case, I expect that I have the Labour Party with me on that very thing, as the investigation has been stressed in the rest of the case. But to the extent that the Labour Party answers. The important thing for us is at least that other provisions are to be made and other criteria used in the traffic light system must be made after a thorough assessment, and there must be conditions that actually affect what is to be measured, in addition to what is usual. What is listed here in the SV’s proposal, such as the release of faeces and drugs, is part of the existing authorisation and its assessment and the evacuation of farmed salmon. Historical evacuation of farmed salmon is difficult for me to see that future permits and regulation of the level of existing permits will have an impact; it will be going in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2410	It'll be a long day -- I'll be brief. When the traffic lights system was launched in 2015, we had a debate. In that debate, I asked the Minister for Fisheries at the moment why there is only one indicator. Here we have environmental indicators, marine environmental indicators, and then it's just lice that are in that indicator, and it's just lice that's going to regulate the production capacity, and that's what we have -- why? And she said, "No, it's going to work with more indicators." She said quite specifically that an already in 2015 had started working with the emission indicator, and she could also inform the Storting that indicators of public health, no, fish health – public health I think is well taken care of – and was a little further away in time. When it comes to the traffic light system, we were very critical of the growth regime, a basis for that message, but we were very followers of the traffic light system, if there are good indicators there. I think very well that the result of that debate was that most people were concerned that here must be a few more indicators, so that it actually becomes a real traffic light system for the environment in the sea. But we don't know anything about how this is going to be. The representative Nilsen from the Right said here that there is a work going on. Yes, but it has been a work on the road for four years on the emission indicator, which can then include both faeces, escape, etc., as we have in our proposal. We haven't heard anything. And when it comes to fish health and disappearance, that it should also come in as indicators that would regulate production capacity, we also know nothing about how far forward in time we are talking here. So the big question is, how can we continue to put pressure on this traffic light system, when we only have one indicator, all of which must be some in which does not give any expression to the performance of the system? That's why we put in proposals now, that there should be no growth until we get these indicators, which are supposedly there, but which are not going to be implemented in the traffic light system – no new growth until you get proper indicators in the traffic light system. Before that, we can't call this a bear power system. Everyone in this room knows that. I'll take up the proposal for SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2423	The representative of Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2428	Marine use is an important industry and the traffic light system with its 13 production areas provides predictability. This will ensure that growth takes place in an environmentally sustainable way, which is important for the Left. I agree with what Tom-Christer Nilsen says that it is not complicated, nor is it particularly surprising that this is coming now. I am not going to spend a long time and extend this, but I agree with the representative of Nilsen on what has emerged around the SV's proposal. Some closing comments about the representative, Mr. Knag Fylkesnes, said: "We agree that the indicators need to be put in place, so that we also get a few more people to deal with, because it can't just be as locked as the systems are now." Of course, there's also emissions in this industry, but we also have to look at some other things that it's natural to look at in relation to this. I eagerly await and hope that we will also receive that round relatively quickly, but as I said, I think it is predictable what is here today, and the Left will of course support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2435	I would like to start by commenting that the representative Tom-Christer Nilsen referred to the previous case. I choose to view it as an attempt to be fun, and not an expression of confusion about what this is all about – there are two very different things. The central party agrees with the government that it is an advantage to clarify the basis of secrecy in order to avoid uncertainty about this in the public sphere and to reduce the risk of legal processes. The industry has been familiar with the traffic lighting system, that this could lead to a downward adjustment in production capacity in the so-called red production area, and that it will be relevant in autumn 2019 to turn on the red light where the environmental impact is unacceptable. The central party shares the criticism of the process that has been carried out, that the proposal was heard with a time limit that was considerably shorter than the minimum time limit in the distribution instructions, without any justification for why it was. But, as I said, we believe that the exceptional provision of the production area regulation must be clarified. When we deal with the traffic light system, one of the objections of the Center Party was that we did not want collective punishment, that is, if a driver is running well with a low lice level in an area where there is a high lice level, one should be exempt from deduction. There is still something on the part of the Centre that we will take care of producers with a good lice level even if they operate in production areas that are to be reduced. The centre party is also concerned that the traffic lighting system should not specifically affect small and medium-sized breeding companies, since they do not have the possibility to switch between locations, as the large companies do.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2449	Marine industry has grown to be one of our most important industries and continues to have great potential. It requires, however, that we get rid of the negative environmental consequences. The aim of the legislative amendment of the Aquaculture Act is to provide a clear basis for adjusting production capacity in red production areas for environmental reasons and to make it possible to do so in a regulatory manner. The new capacity adjustment system in Norwegian salmon and trout tops, which we expect to call the traffic light system, came into force in the autumn of 2017. It shall contribute to the environmentally sustainable growth of Norwegian salmon and trout tops, and any changes in capacity will be assessed every two years. There has already been a round of traffic lights in the autumn of 2017, when red lights were not put into service, and increased capacity was allocated. In that round of allocation, provision was made both for increased capacity on existing permits and for new permits. It gave the farming industry the opportunity to increase its production and value creation in the green areas, and it gave valuable income to our municipalities. A review shall be carried out in the autumn of 2019 and it will also be appropriate to switch on the red light if the environmental impact is unacceptable in a production area and to reduce the capacity of that area. That's something we in the Christian People's Party put behind us. The principle behind the traffic light system is that the total impact of the industry on the environment is to control production capacity. It's a good principle, which gives incentives to sustainable development. The Christian People's Party believes it is right to be able to reduce production capacity in red production areas through regulation. The aim of the bill is to clarify the basis for such a reduction. We record that the Workers' Party, the Centre's Party and the SV write in comments that they are concerned about the predictability of industry in connection with the proposed amendments to Section 9 of the Aquaculture Act. We agree that predictability is important, but it is extremely funny that the three parties are now so concerned about the predictability of the industry when, just a few months ago, they proposed to impose time limits on both new and already granted permits in the Innst. 222 S for 2018–2019. I think that the industry had experienced the change that many more unpredictable than what is being promoted in this proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2466	The change in the legislation we have presented today means highlighting the basis on which to adjust the production capacity of aquaculture in areas where the overall impact of production is no longer environmentally sound. This is also emphasised by the Ministry, which is responsible for laying down rules on restrictions on the extent and use of permits in specified geographical areas, if this is necessary for the environment. In 2016, the government decided that the down-adjustment of capacity should not be carried out where the traffic lights showed red for the first time. In the autumn, the second time the government has to colour the production areas. We have therefore found it appropriate to clarify the legal basis for reduction and capacity now. In Report. St. 16 for 2014-2015, Predictable and environmentally sustainable growth in Norwegian salmon and trout top hops, was discussed and explained the basis for why and how the authorities should regulate the production capacity in the industry. The size of the notification was examined and the conclusions reached, in substance, as set out in the Notice of Initiation. Inner. 361 S for 2014-2015. The size thus agreed to the establishment of a system in production areas where operators in an area are responsible for the overall burden on the production area. Of course, for breeders in a red area it will affect production if it is down-adjusted. However, this is due to an environmental situation which would then be considered unacceptable and which poses major challenges to the same breeders and, in particular, costs. When an area becomes red, it means that other and less costly measures have been assessed and used, but that it is not sufficient to solve the challenges. The legal certainty of economic operators has been ensured through the ordinary management system, which provides the professional basis for the decision. Regulations are subject to consultation and citizens may bring legal proceedings before the courts to examine the validity of the administrative decision. I think it would undermine the whole purpose of area-based management if individual conditions were to be taken into account in each breeder. It would also provide a system that would in practice be impossible to deal with. The legislative proposal does not involve a material change to the applicable law. As I see it, the Aquaculture Act already allows for this reduction, but since there are doubts about this, I still think it is right to promote this amendment, as we have now done, in order to reduce any interpretation and incentives for action, while at the same time giving the traffic light greater legitimacy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2479	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2484	The first question is: what does the Minister think about the clear response of the Ministry of Justice and Defence to the short deadline and the lack of justification when this was put to the hearing?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2489	I see that some have pointed out the short deadline for consultation. Yes, it might have been longer, but we thought that there was already an opportunity to introduce this, so this is simply an indication of a base that is already there.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2494	Thanks for the answer. When the farm message was dealt with four years ago, Stortinget was very clear that the model to be used for measuring lice on wild fish should be so well developed that it gave it the necessary trust and legitimacy. During the hearing, it was found that in several fjords in the West, new tests have been carried out to show that salmon melts in central salmon rivers and fjords actually emigrate at other times, and perhaps twice, and that they are both affected by water flow and go out more quickly. Does that mean that you want to look at the models that are used today and update them in relation to new knowledge?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2499	I take on board any new knowledge that comes, and any new knowledge that comes will be assessed – as the representative Knag Fylkesnes also pointed out, whether there should be other indicators to be taken into account. And we've asked HI to look at emission indicators, and we've asked them to produce a report. It is not available as of today, but I look forward to it. At present, however, emissions are not a regional problem, but more a local problem. So yes, we're trying to adapt to the knowledge that exists at all times, and evaluate how appropriate it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2504	Then I understand that the new knowledge gained through these research projects will be part of the basis for the new models and timing of measurements. There were also some objections to the difference between large operators, which have biomass at farm level and locations in several production areas, and small operators. Does this mean that large units can move the biomass from a red or yellow area to a green area and thus continue production, while smaller units located only in one production area do not have the same flexibility?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2511	Now I think we're going to do the coloring first and go through the individual production areas. It shall be made for the autumn, in particular in October/November. Then a group will look at these things and come up with a status update. In the case of individual actors and whether capacity can be moved, it is important that each site within the breeding industry is approved and the capacity that is available can be used there. But you can't move the fish from one location to another; you have to have a site that's already approved for the biomass that's there.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2518	This is a very important question. Does it mean, for the biomass you use in a red site, that you cannot physically move the fish, but the right to that volume – that one can then increase it in other areas when one has been allocated a biomass at farm level?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2523	Now we're going to look at different measures within this, because there are different issues relating to each company. Small companies may face challenges other than medium-sized and, in particular, large companies, which may have locations in a variety of production areas and may be able to find a solution more easily. I will look at these things in the context of what may come. And deductions will be laid down in regulations, and the regulation will also be sent out to the hearing.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2529	I noticed that the Council of State was waiting for a report on several indicators. In the meantime, the industry has developed indicators in collaboration with Nofima, SINTEF and BarentsWatch, which they issue annually, where they have a proprietary drug release system, etc. There is a portal on BarentsWatch that can be followed by development in the industry. This government announced completely back in 2015 that one had already started with emission indicators. Fishing health and disappearance were a little further ahead in time. We haven't seen anything about this; there's still only one indicator in the bearing force indicators of the traffic light system. Have any proposals for indicators been submitted to the Ministry at any time?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2536	From my memory, from my time as a state councillor, I would say that we have not evaluated other indicators of ours related to the devaluation that is to take place now. I have not evaluated indicators other than those available and what has been recommended up to now.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2541	Does the Council agree that four years to develop emission indicators are very long?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2546	We do things based on what is appropriate to the cut-off piece, and that's what this case is about. The issue we have put forward today is the basis of the house to be able to cut down on a production area – whether we have it. As regards the different indicators, it has been agreed to look at the lice indicator as the best indicator available at present, linked to this, because the part of growth is linked to, among others, wild-axis cropping opportunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2553	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2571	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2580	Today, we are going to debate a proposal from the Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Free Alliance. It is an important proposal for a representative. A Joint Committee says that the initiative to create a separate transport plan for children is positive, and the Committee supports the fact that for the first time children were given their own transport plan in connection with the national transport plan for 2018-2029, i.e. the current transport plan. The Committee notes that the main objective of Barna’s transport plan is to develop a transport system that ensures good care for children and young people, and the Committee assumes that Barna’s transport plan will be updated in the context of the roll-out of the national transport plan in 2021. There is an ongoing process right now. So far, everything's fine. But then I have to say for myself, as an SV representative, that there is thanks and goodbye to the consensus, because when it comes to concrete measures to take children and young people in the transport system more seriously, rather than driving and building motorways, the biggest parties jump off quickly, and especially the government fraction. They will not be involved in important proposals that are supported by the SV and the Greens/Greens/EFA. That is the reality. The Transport Economic Institute has criticised Barna’s transport plan for being little concrete and for just referring to already established objectives. It is clear that it is easy to refer to slightly turbulent targets that are not concrete – that is the case. And the bets that should have been concrete then are missing. The plan adds up to 200 million. kr in grants to municipal walking and cycling roads per year. There is something like 20 kilometres of walking and cycling routes a year – not much of a bet when we think that there is a lot more motorway bet, which is a little more expensive per metre. Nor is it said about how to rig and set up these grants in order to get a kind of child profile, which is the purpose of that plan. When Barna’s transport plan is so small that it is prioritised through national appropriations and actions, it may not be easy to follow up on local politicians, whether from counties or, in particular, municipalities. SV believes that a national transport policy is necessary which, far more than at present, prioritises the safety of children rather than the use of cars. A more child-friendly transport system will also be a safer, more environmentally friendly and better transport system for all. It requires proposals that we travel, and those proposals deal with both spatial planning, lower speed limits in cities and agglomerations, and fairer public transport for all children, not just those under 16 years of age, etc. It's on this background that I'm presenting our suggestions in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2595	The representative Arne Nävra has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2600	Here we are discussing a draft representative from the representative of Une Bastholm on child-friendly urban and rural transport. This is an important topic, and the proposal contains many good, concrete actions and efforts to strengthen the ambitions of the transport plan of Barna. Traffic safety measures and the consideration of children and the transport needs of young people should be given greater focus. The proposer is quite right: Too many children experience heavy traffic and high speed along their school roads. However, the Workers' Party believes that the work on the National Transport Plan, of which Barna's transport plan is part, is the place where we concretely put action – although the argument for the concrete proposals is the Transport Economic Institute's criticism that Barna's transport plan is far too little concrete. However, we will come back to the many good proposals when we deal with the national transport plan. We do this because, in the work on the national transport plan, analyses are being carried out and assessments are being carried out by professional bodies of where we have succeeded in reaching the agreed ambitions of the Stortinge – and where we have not succeeded. In particular, the proposals will be sent out at the hearing. These are the findings that it's important to bring with them to give the right medicine. It should then be possible to have a comprehensive and comprehensive plan, and not least predictability and long-termity. Some of the proposals we believe, like the Council of State, are municipal and county responsibilities. But a lot of it may also be right to have national standards. We have also received a request from Safety Traffic, where they support most of the proposals. They also say that the plans for Barna’s transport plan in the NTP work are unknown to them, although the Ministry of Transport is well-started with rolling NTP. That is why we hope that the Council of State can today respond to how the work on Barna’s transport plan is planned in the NTP work.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2613	I think all the parties in this room are concerned that children and young people should have it safe and secure where they live, to and from school and leisure activities and in traffic for the rest. In the work of the National Transport Plan 2018-2029, a Barna transport plan was first established as an integral part of the NTP. In the Granavolden platform, it is also stated that this work will continue and develop in the forthcoming roll-out of the national transport plan. This has been a new crime, and it is natural that the next rollover will consider further measures to make it safer for children in traffic. This work must be done in close cooperation with municipalities and county councils, as well as voluntary teams and organisations. There are many who are good contributors to this work. Proposals are made with many proposals. Some of them are direct State responsibility; others are local authorities and county councils to decide. I trust that the representatives of the local government and county councils are conscious of their responsibility and see the value of safe conditions for children and young people, and that this is something they take into account in their priorities. With regard to the proposals at state level, the Council of State has made a detailed presentation of the government’s views by letter of 14 May 2019. I have nothing to add in addition to what is stated in that letter. In addition, action aimed at children and young people also needs to be seen in a wider context and prioritised on the basis of an overall assessment in the national transport plan. That roll-out is well under way, and we want to place great emphasis on the work on Barna's transport plan and concrete actions related to it. At the same time, it is important to support voluntary teams and organisations and, in particular, awareness-raising activities. There is a measure that eight out of ten children will choose to go to school or ride a bicycle. It requires physical organisation and good traffic training. Until recently, Safer Traffic has played an important role over many years. Facilitation for children and young people in traffic is a good investment in the future. We will continue to prioritise this in the work of the National Transport Plan and in close cooperation with municipalities, county councils and voluntary teams and organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2628	Fortunately, most people in this room take for granted that we have safe and secure school paths for children and young people. There's a lot of consensus. I have to say that, with regard to the concrete proposals that the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European It is no to all that has to do with the car, and yes to everything that is not related to the car, and that will make it difficult to drive a car and make everyday life even more uncomfortable and complicated. If you go into any of these points, some of them are actually good, but then there are some who are quite extreme in terms of car hostility or negative attitude to facilitate safe and safe car transport in Norway. For point 1, for example, that one should give priority to bicycle and pedestrian routes instead of the construction of a new motorway: there is nothing either. Today's government shows that both parts are actually possible. We have a massive commitment to building bicycle and pedestrian routes, and we have a massive commitment to building safe, secure quadruple highways, which, in turn, has led to us being at the top of the world when it comes to the low number of fatal accidents – fortunately. One must return to right after the war in order to get such good, positive and low accident rates. It's proven to be working. It is possible to build even more bike and walking routes without spending more money. There is no need to go at the expense of motorway projects, which are important to link regions and parts of countries and to improve housing and labour market regions. It is possible to build simpler and cheaper standards to improve road safety, public health and accessibility for bicycles and corridors. We have. In the case of rv. 3, the Minister of Transport has given clear and clear instructions to the State Road Administration to build a simpler cycle and walking route for better public health and road safety. To turn streets into playgrounds – point 2 of the proposal – and balloons and make green oases in center cores: it almost reminds me a little about a kind of children's film – that it's so cute and nice in the village. I'm surprised that the Greens don't give priority to moving out in the countryside if they miss the green, fresh, fine lungs. That's more than enough of it in all of Norway. Regarding point 3, to reduce the speed limit from 50 km/h to 40 km/h and to 30 km/h in urban areas: I wonder if the Greens have not been outside Oslo. In Oslo there have been many 30 km/h zones, but in most other cities in Norway there are also 30 km/h zones in the centre. These points have actually been implemented a long time ago. And then a point has a point 5. It is quite extreme to introduce national criteria or guidelines for car-free zones around all schools. How are people in the village going to get to school?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2647	I think many of the proposals that have been promoted have good intentions – sincere and honest intentions to do better for young people – but I think most of the others do too. It seeks to update Barna’s transport plan with new concrete measures and initiatives that prioritise the consideration of children and young people in transport systems rather than the construction of new motorways. The initiative to create a separate transport plan for children is a positive one. We support that children have their own transport plan for the first time in connection with the national transport plan 2018-2029. As the chairman of the committee referred to, it's a job you're working on the next revision, and it's important that there's clear evidence that it's a priority. It is essential to ensure a transport system that is safe for all. We support the intention to secure safe schools for children. Proposalers believe that a change in the training law and the framework plan for kindergartens in order to ensure safe school paths is important, and some concrete measures are proposed in this respect. Children and young people should travel safely and safely where they live, to and from school and leisure activities and in traffic elsewhere. What is important is that the challenges mentioned in the proposals must be part of the everyday life of all politicians at both municipal, county and urban level. These are things that apply to everyday life. It's public health measures. Physical activity is very important – that people avoid being driven to school, but can walk, cycle and move safely. It is as important in urban areas as in districts. The Central Party believes that it is important to continue this effort in the roll-out of the National Transport Plan and wants strong involvement of municipalities and county councils, voluntary teams and organisations and others with an interest in contributing to a safe everyday life for the children. It is also a goal that eight out of ten children should choose to go to school or ride a bicycle. We do not want the state to regulate this down to the smallest detail by law. This is more about getting a public commitment and about the willingness to prioritize resources. There is no contrast between building new and modern roads and working on road safety. On the contrary, road safety is a high priority in the work on new road projects. In addition, provision is made for more people to use collective solutions, walk or cycle in the development of urban areas. It is important to focus on road safety measures and take into account children and young people. There is a need for a good collective offer across the country that makes it easy and reasonable to travel quickly and climate-smart.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2664	Accident rates for both children and adults have fallen sharply in recent years, so there can be no doubt that much of the policy and traffic solutions that have been chosen have been successful. Municipalities, county councils and national guidelines are quite clear that the priority needs to be given to the group of children and school children in terms of road safety. I have to commend the municipalities for taking this seriously and really being concerned about it, especially when it comes to the construction of new schools and getting into a traffic-proof zone, which the Greens are very concerned about introducing. It's more difficult in already densely built areas with old schools, but it's clearly possible to solve, so I appreciate that someone is going ahead to point out the challenges you have. I am absolutely sure that the Ministry of Transport and our entire apparatus, the State Road Service and more with them, are fully aware that there are still challenges, and that we need to invest even more money to find good solutions. It's more and more a confession that speed kills. Then we have to use the sign and the speed reduction more and more where children and young people travel. That's an arena I want to mention. I go a lot around sports clubs, and there are a lot of cars. Not as far as schools and perhaps other areas of experience are concerned. In sports arenas, it'll be a very short-term accumulation. Many people are going to get in at the same time and out at the same time, and there's probably something more to learn about the logistics around it, and not least the emphasis on road safety. I think most people who are going to a sports event have both the ability and the ability to go some way instead of driving all the way forward. I look forward to the further development of these systems, and to the further work on road safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2673	I think it should be a principle that is at the top of the next national transport plan, and that is the following: a city that is good for children, it is good for everyone. Two out of five elementary school parents believe that the school road is unsafe due to tight traffic and high speed. The Greens will make transport policy in Norway environmentally friendly and child friendly because children’s freedom of movement needs environmentally friendly modes of transport such as walking, cycling and collective, because children are hit harder than adults by contaminated air from car traffic and, of course, by climate change, and because car dominance has given us road-hazardous neighbourhoods and unsafe school roads. Therefore, Barna’s transport plan should also be updated with new concrete measures and initiatives that give priority to children and young people in the transport system – in front of car traffic and the construction of new motorways. Missing walking and cycling routes, pavements and pedestrian areas must be given priority over the construction of new motorways. This is where the policy lies, although it is nice that some people in the Chamber believe that the budget for transport is endless. I would also like to thank the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection for producing all the proposals put forward by the Greens, so that I could not do that. We agree with Safe Traffic that this work must take place in the preparation of the national transport plan by 2021. It is precisely in the NTP today that the attention of children and young people in the transport system is not put first. I would like to read a response to our proposal, which we received from Safer Traffic. It starts like this: So good that you put a political focus on the safety of children in traffic. Kudos from us in Safety Traffic to you in the Environmental Party of the Greens. This is an important social responsibility and the responsibilities of adults, an important condition that more people can choose to ride and go to school and elsewhere, which is good for health and the environment. It is also great that you have a broad perspective, focusing on both infrastructure, speed limits and training. What does Stortinget do with our concrete proposal, which the Transport Economics Institute and the Safety Traffic think is necessary? Well, the parties stress that this is important, but it is against – yes, thank you. Thank you, at least, to the SV, who in the vote promotes all of the twelve proposals of the Greens. But it is amazing that neither the government parties, the Workers' Party nor the Centre use the opportunity to support or promote a single own proposal on how Norway should strengthen the consideration of children and young people in the transport system, especially in densely built areas. That means that those representatives are satisfied with the situation as it is today, and then I just conclude that it is high time that the cities got more space in the transport debates in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2690	The Environment Party representative, Mr Dei Green, underlined to the extent that the main criticism is also from the government party to the proposal, about child-friendly transport for children and young people in rural and urban areas, that it is largely the urban focus of the Green Environment Party. It is one of the weaknesses of the proposal, as it appears today – and also in the proposals proposed in sum by the Socialist Left. Traffic safety work is immeasurably important, and especially our young people are vulnerable to traffic. Therefore, we have taken many necessary steps in the last few years, which also starts to give results. We were the first government to create its own Barna's transport plan when one created the previous NTP. There was a time difference between today's government and all the previous governments when one did it. We were the ones who for the first time in over 30 years created their own big message about traffic safety. And it's starting to give us results. In the National Road Safety Action Plan, which is now in force until 2021, one will implement and operate many of the proposals that have also been included in the national transport plan. I refer to the answers I have given to the Committee for a more detailed review both of that and of the proposals made by the Green and SV Environment Party today. We're starting to get results. In Norway, the speed of the motorways is increasing, but the number of people killed and badly injured in traffic is fortunately falling. In Norway, road investment and collective investment are increasing massively, while accidents and serious accidents are decreasing. It shows that it is possible to combine the necessary deployment of infrastructure with important deployments in the field of road safety. What is weak, among other things, in these suggestions, one seems to believe that everyone can bike or go to work, to school in less than 18 years. That's not true. The development of the racial protection project contributes to a safe schooling path for many in our country. There is no suggestion providers specifically focused on. For many years the state of the road has been the starting point for many serious traffic accidents. This means that we spend money on reducing maintenance on the Norwegian road for the first time in several decades — it is done every year during this period of government. In some cases, we closed down both road safety work and the necessary infrastructure development. We do that because we have handled and handled these questions as part of our transport planning in the past and in the forthcoming transport plans – that's what's going to give the best results in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2704	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2709	The work and planning of the next national transport plan is now under way. Safe Traffic has requested the process around the work with Barna's transport plan. It's unknown to them how this is supposed to be put up. The question is short and good: what will be the work on Barna's transport plan, and what will be the transport plan of a new child?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2714	The last answer is that we should draw conclusions when we create a new NTP. But I think that once we start the work that we did in the NTP we're in, and we're going to go on until 2029, which is an extension of another four years, it should be done if there's not a new Barna's transport plan, as we have today. I think I'm the longest I'm going to go before I have concluded to announce a bad course on it. The most important thing is that we get involved much earlier with one of the largest road owners we have in the country, one of the largest public transport drivers we have in the country, namely the regionally elected level. The involvement of the one year before normal NTP work, also helps us to achieve better solutions across the board. For this reason, I would like to commend the Labour Party when, today, they are, in all material respects, joining the proposal of the Government Party not to adopt all of this. It's when we solve things together that we get the best results. It seems to the Labour Party that they are ready for it today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2721	Incidentally, the damage to traffic has been reduced by a four-field motorway. This is the Council of State and I agree. When you spend so many billions on motorways, and you drive in one direction with the middle part/centre field, it's clear that the damage goes down. It's obvious. That truth doesn't have to be repeated so many times. Some of the same effect we would probably have gotten with two and three-field roads with middle parts in many places, I think. Now let it go – we'll get back to that in other debates. The point here is, among other things, cities where we have schools. Very often, that's the case. There are small communities where there is a school, and then there are, among other things, questions about speed, and there are questions about school kissing. Very often, traffic is created by parents who drive their children to school. This is the case, for example. the proposals No 3 and 8 interesting. Can't the Council of State plan to establish traffic-free zones around the schools?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2728	Suggestions are adapted to a part of the country and not the whole. Creating guidelines for that I think is a bad solution. Many places in the country come to school in a school bus. If we don't get to run a bus into the school, but let the kids out in traffic, that's a bad idea. In sum, I think the best way to achieve road safety results is to take this into account in the holistic transport planning, and there is a broad majority on Stortinget today. That's what I think is continuous because you've seen that it's what gives the best result over time. But that's something we do all the time. We revised the recent speed limit criterion because we focus more on the activity along the road, something like that. ensure that the speed in and around the schools is reduced very many places – effective grips to make it safer for children to travel to and from the school. We do so within the framework of transport planning in the national transport plan. That gives us results, and that's the way we're going to have to do it in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2735	Then I can simply view these proposals here as pretty good input into the Council's work with the National Transport Plan, which he is rolling for the time being. The next question, quite specifically, concerns a proposal: among all the proposals that have now been put forward, we propose to introduce a national requirement that all children should be able to ride safely to school. You'd think it was obvious, but it's not. I see that in a close-up location it is not arranged for cycling to the school. It is a concrete proposal that we should set out guidelines for this, just as a requirement that municipalities should include in land-use planning. Will the Council of State include proposal No. 8 into the NTP roll?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2742	If it was the case that the guidelines lifted the laws of nature in Norway, I would like to look at it. But that everyone should travel safely along the school grounds, whether it is ailing or walking, is unfortunately too many in this country an utopia. Home it's 15 km to school. It is not an option to move. And if we're going there, we're going to cross the race bridge, but we don't have all the places. There is a risk of traveling on the roads in many districts. That's what we have to eliminate, and that's what SV's proposal doesn't take over. There are several proposals that are natural for us to consider in the NTP work, which are adapted to urban areas. I recognize that. Some of these proposals are adapted to urban areas, and it is natural that we also consider them when operationalising the national transport plan in the future. Some other proposals are not at all adapted to the country we live in, and that is also why these proposals are voted down today by a solid majority on the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2747	We support the proposal not to vote for all these different measures, although we have said that the intentions are good. What is important is raising awareness and making children understand and understand how they are going to behave in traffic, and not least to try together with their parents to obtain such purely practical solutions as the Council of State itself referred to in the previous answer. A concrete question: in connection with the reorganisation of the Road Administration there may be a different structure at traffic stations and such things. Some of those who work there have often been used locally, to meet up at schools, show up in uniform and tell about the importance, like with the police and Safe Traffic. Does the Council of State think that this reorganisation can impair such an offer, or does he think that there can be something you can play on locally in the future as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2754	First of all, new organisation is not attached. I have received a proposal from the State Road Administration, which is now being evaluated in the Department. I'll come back to it at a later date, when we've made our assessment of it. Second, I'm not going to let the road safety work get hurt by it. I assume that the work done by the State Road Administration in conjunction with voluntary organisations, the police and other actors will be an important part of road safety work in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2761	I think it is absolutely impressive to hear the sensitivities of the Council of State against having a city focus in the field of transport policy. It is therefore a requirement for any proposal to be debated in this Stortinget, that it should be appropriate in every corner of Norway for it to be relevant for the Minister of Transport to support it. Norway is being urbanised, and this does not help in the implementation of several centralising reforms by the government. 82 pst. of the population of Norway live in towns and agglomerations. Over one third of all the Nordics live in the five largest cities in Norway – one third! So it would have been nice if the Minister of Transport also wanted to be Minister for All the Children who live in these densely built strips and want to ride to school, but where the bike path is not safe enough, among other things. Because of how to prioritize money on the national transport budget. My question is: how can it be an attack on someone in Norway to have a transport proposal that focuses on the city?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2768	I am pleased that the Greens are honest about the fact that this representative proposal, which they call ‘on child-friendly urban and urban transport’, is nothing but a great headline without reality in itself. This is a city proposal – it's fine, we can discuss it with that starting point. But then one can't add up to proposals that will apply to the whole country that doesn't take into account that Norway doesn't look like it does within Ring 3 in Oslo. It would be liberating if the Greens took over it. That doesn't mean that every suggestion of improvement for people in the city is insignificant, but that's why I say we can do it. Several of them will be completed. It's e.g. Because in many areas, we are now placing greater emphasis on slowing down in the vicinity of schools, kindergartens or other activities that increase the risk of our children being injured in traffic. But then there are concrete measures that help. We're doing them because we've planned them to gather into what's the most offensive bet on traffic safety from any government ever.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2776	I very much agree with the Minister for Transport that there are concrete measures that apply, which we have tried to contribute to this debate. I am very concerned when Safety Traffic in connection with this case writes that they do not know the plans for Barna's transport plan in the NTP roll, and that they have recently sent an enquiry to the NTP Secretariat to request information. My question is: can the Council of State ensure that not only will Barna's transport plan be included, but that it will also become considerably more concrete and binding, so that we can discuss these measures here, and that Safe Traffic is quickly invited to contribute and no longer need to be uninvited with the Lua in mind of the plans for Barna's transport plan in the rollover?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2785	One point: I have never experienced that Safer Trafikk has been wearing a hat in his hand. They are often a very constructive contributor to road safety work, an important player in teaching children and young people sensible attitudes when it comes to driving. They're an actor who does a lot of good on behalf of all of us. I mean, the NTP process that we've initiated, that I find that in many cases multiple games in Stortinget are not easy, is a process that allows for earlier involvement than ever before. The reason why people now know that we're in an NTP process is that we've introduced him to teams and organizations, business and state politicians much earlier than we usually have. It also allows these types of layers and organisations to get into work earlier. They're naturally welcome to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2790	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2797	Children are as important road users as others, and as important as the drivers. What we have been demonstrated in this debate is, at least, that, on the part of the Progress Party and also of the Minister of Transport, clearly does not share that view. It is a little sad to experience that the Minister for Transport is so arrogant in view of these proposals that have been promoted, and that it is also being made into a city-land struggle. In one proposal, it says: ‘The government is asked to establish an action programme for safe school roads with a separate grant scheme for safe school roads in the municipality.’ It can be used in all municipalities. I grew up in a municipality where we drove a school bus. It is, of course, fully possible to facilitate the provision of school buses, for example. can safely stop a few hundred meters from school, and that the children can walk the last meters – that you can stop that very many people drive their children to schools, as it is now, because it is unsafe for the kids to go. In most of the schools I know, there's a combination of bus, bike and times. There will be a lot of places, but it would be a great advantage for the children and for road safety if you could make it easier for fewer children to drive to school. I can't believe why the Council of State shouldn't applaud such a solution. To have more car-free zones around the schools would be a huge advantage. After that, we will debate public health. It would have been great if we trained the kids both to drive more collectively and to go and ride a little bit more. If it is to be possible also in many towns, more walking and cycling roads must be built – much more walking and cycling roads than is being done today. At that time, priority must be given to spending money on motorway investment. It is not investment that benefits children in the first place. I don't know if it's almost worth commenting on once, the article from the Progress Party that says it's going to be a good local environment for kids in cities. Does the representative not know that there are children who cannot play out because there is no room and who cannot be out and go to school because the air is bad and contaminated? I'm quite startled by that, that at Big City there are people who don't understand, don't accept and don't fight for children to have it safe and sound in their local environment, whether they live in the city or in the countryside.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2813	It is clear that we live in a little different worlds, SV, the Green Party and we in the Progress Party. It's almost so I want to invite the representative from the Green Party to Hedmark to show how it is there. I have also decided to invite Karin Andersen to Hedmark, but I do not know if there is any point. She has a pretty good insight into how it works there. My experience, at least from Hedmark, is that there is no safe and secure school roads a major problem. The biggest problem there may be is that the county councils – not today’s government, for today’s government has prioritised massive efforts on better cycling and walking routes – unfortunately not prioritizing enough cycling and walking routes. One of the challenges there, which I tried to convey instead, has been that unfortunately, on their own initiative, they doubt the rigid rules and manuals of the State Road Service, although our government has been clear that it is lawful, and possible, to build simpler and cheaper to get more road safety for the money, to get more bike and walkway. Of course, it's better to go on a one meter bike and walkway, to use the example, than to balance the road shoulders or to go into the ditch. The criticism is completely wrong, I feel. Just go and see in our state budgets how much we have prioritised cycling and walking routes. That's where we've really made a huge effort. It is quite special with SV that it should be so difficult to build motorways. That's it to be able to have two thoughts in your head at the same time. SV is busy bringing down the accidents. Good, so are we. SV will build two- and three-field highways, it will certainly be the Green Party too, and is satisfied with it. We build four-field highways to bring down the accidents, but in addition – because we have more than two tanks in our head at the same time: When building four-fields, the capacity on the road increases. It is clear that there is no political desire about it from the left, but we want people to be able to come forward. The second is that you reduce travel time. You get regional magnification. People such as living longer away from a town or town, further away from Oslo, is given the opportunity to commute to work and, hopefully, the opportunity to choose either to travel collectively or by car. When it comes to cycling to school, I fully agree that we should stimulate it, but my experience is that parents want to drive their children. Another problem is that very many schools don't allow cycling for the little children. As far as I have registered – I remember going back to when I went to school, and I know the different schools my children have attended – it was not allowed to start cycling until you got to the fourth grade. All those schools had very safe bike and walking routes and safe school roads. So I'm not completely familiar with much of the criticism that comes both from SV and from the Environmental Party of the Greens.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2835	The Council of State believes that the proposals on the traffic conditions of children in cities and agglomerations are too poor, as they do not have pig-grown strips. That's the way I understand it. So this is not a perfect proposal. To tell you, it's sometimes possible to narrow down, narrow down, the thematics of a proposal to focus on something, and we've done that here. I can take an example to make it quite clear to the Council of State: if the Council of State had had done so in the past, as the Council of Agriculture, and we had put forward a proposal on pig management, the Council of State would probably have thought it was a very bad proposal, because there was no chicken. So I think it would have been much better if he had gone into the subject matter of the proposals instead. These are concrete proposals that the Council of State could have debated. It would be a nice way to do it by saying which of these suggestions he would have wanted to develop and bring with him, or – as he usually does – to say that I'm knocking open doors, because they're about to do it in connection with NTP or in other contexts. It's all right, but then he gets to argue for it. I have sailed grandchildren who live in a dense place, they live in the cultural capital of West Fossen. It's five miles to school. It's an unsafe school road, so they get a bus. They can't ride. One granddaughter is in fifth grade, one rat's ass in sports. He can bike, but he is not quite allowed by his parents either, because there are buses there, there is a lot of traffic there, and there is not a bike path there. It's in such situations that we need a bike path. That's what the state council should have been with and discussed and contributed to. These are very specific proposals. In terms of guidelines for municipalities, it might have been in place. It concerns proposal No. 8, among other things, as I also mentioned in the line change. There are many requirements for spatial planning in municipalities, and it might have been wise to put in a small claim, a hint, a claim that the children should be raised in these spatial planning plans, that they should be taken into account. It had become less traffic, it had become safer roads, was better health. There are many gains by making walking and cycling paths, and I think the Council of State knows it very well. Yes, there is a big difference between SV and the Progress Party in transport – I promise – and we have had many confrontations about it. Very much boils down to let's say two things: it goes on climate considerations, how important it is in the future. It reveals the big difference between us. The second is, of course, about the environment, safety and well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2848	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2864	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be up to six replies from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2874	As the rapporteur, I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in this matter, which we tend to have in all matters. This is a proposal from the Greens/Greens/EFA for a representative of Une Bastholm on sustainable and modern freedom of movement through reduced car traffic. The representative promotes a number of proposals such as the Greens/Greens/EFA, among others. believes that it will contribute to the reduction of car traffic, more bicycles and corridors, more collective and more use of new electrical means. In the representative proposal, the Greens/EFA will go very far in limiting and reducing both car use and road construction. As a result, several of the proposals will lead to major challenges for the drivers and, in addition, require significant changes in current transport policy, in particular the point of scrapping all major road projects into and out of cities, such as E18 and E6 in and out of Oslo. The Committee is committed to seeing the whole of transport policy and not just one-sided focus on collectives, bicycles and corridors. It is important to focus on good collective solutions, bicycles and corridors – it is important, and it is clear to the Committee – but it is also important to look at the whole of transport policy and not one-sided focus on some forms of transport. To this end, the Committee stresses that public transport, bicycles and corridors should not mean that all road projects in major cities should be stopped. The Committee is concerned that the overall road network has a good standard, which makes it possible to relieve streets and roads in residential areas, develop urban areas and guarantee good accessibility and good capacity. Some of the proposals are also unnecessary, as municipalities already have the ability to regulate and manage much of what is being addressed here, within local self-government, as in regulation plans and other plans.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2884	As a representative of the Progress Party, I have to say that this proposal from the Greens is provoking the Greens. It doesn't surprise me, because I know and am prepared for the Greens to do everything they can to create restrictions, restrictions and discomfort for the drivers. But this provokes me. It may seem that the only goal of the Green Party is to plague the drivers and make it so uncomfortable and so difficult to drive that the drivers leave the car standing and start walking. I'm afraid they'll be able to do that in part. We can see that, for example. in Oslo, where more and more streets are closed and emptied for traffic, and the cars and streets appear to be deserted, abandoned asphalt droughts. Then I can understand why the Greens miss that it would have been a little bit more green there, when it's deserted, empty asphalt holes again. A natural consequence of the emptying of the streets is that the trade has gone away, and the customers have gone away.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2887	Here we are dealing with a proposal by the Greens on sustainable, modern freedom of movement through reduced car traffic. 14 concrete proposals are promoted for a better climate, better accessibility and reduced car traffic. The Workers' Party wants a transport and communication offer to solve tomorrow's challenges. We need to build regions together, solve business transport challenges and allow citizens to make climate-friendly transport choices in their everyday lives. All of our cities have large population growth. So we must not just take into account today's population, cleaner urban environment and better accessibility; we must also build solutions for the population and cities of the future in growth. That is why we want to continue the strategically important urban environmental agreements and reward schemes that stimulate cities to turn transport from private cars to public transport, cycling and walking. It improves the progeny. We already see that it works, but the state should take greater responsibility for the collective effort. In our proposal for a national transport plan, we have therefore proposed that the State should contribute €9.6 billion. kr more for large collective investment in our four largest cities. We repeat this proposal in this matter. We've had a big toll debate over the past few weeks, and for us in the Workers' Party, it's strange that the government, instead of solving the challenges of municipalities, is running with complete disclaimer from its own policies. The municipality's task is to achieve the Storting climate goal. Then we have to play with regional and local politicians. We cannot, on the one hand, fully finance large overruns on projects for which the State is responsible and, on the other hand, say that the level of tolls is the responsibility of the municipalities. We have one bag of money, and that's the state fund. We're going to build this country together, and we're going to achieve common climate goals. With regard to the other proposals, we believe in this case, as in the previous case, that they are better suited to the treatment of the national transport plan. This means that proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and SV to increase the State's share to 70 pst., promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2900	The representative of Kirsti Leirtrø has advanced the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2905	The four government parties have given priority to significantly increasing the contribution to the major urban areas over the last few years, although it might seem slightly different in the previous debate. In the budget for 2019, it is committed to EUR 3.7 billion. kr, and in the treatment of the national transport plan 2018-2029 it is set at 66,4 billion. kr for this purpose. There is a significant effort to help more people make use of public transport, bicycles and corridors, and to achieve the zero growth target for passenger car transport. Targeted urban investment also makes it easier to choose climate-friendly and environmentally friendly ways of travelling. New technology also means that the whole transport sector is changing and that seamless door-to-door travel can be arranged in a completely different way from before. Attractive collective solutions make more and more solutions different from cars. At the same time, we live in a long-distance country where we must ensure that we have an efficient and well-functioning transport network from north to south and from east to west. That means that we have to facilitate transport at sea, on land and in the air. In this way, we can connect the country through good transport solutions and develop attractive and good labour market regions that stimulate housing and value creation across the country. I note that the drafters and other representatives of the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European In the national transport plan 2018–2029, we have a balance between city and district and between modes of transport, which contributes to development and value creation across the country. When, for example, the Green Party: propose not to carry out important fjord-crossing projects in the West, which build attractive housing and labour market regions, they have obviously not listened to business in these regions. When they argue that they want to do this to save tolls, it's not a logical argument either. Bridges and tunnels replacing ferries mean that an eternal toll station is replaced by a time-limited one. fjord crossing projects actually reduce the toll burden for people. Both the Labour Party, SV and the Green Party propose to increase the government funding of large collective actions in the major cities. This money also has to be taken from a place. The SV and the Green Party are relatively clear that they want to take them from road projects in the rest of the country, while the Labour Party is somewhat more unclear. I guess increased taxes are actually another name for it. The government follows up its promises and grants 50 pst. It creates predictability and is significantly higher than the former governments have contributed. Now I do not reach out to all the proposals, but refer to the letter of reply from the Council of State, dated 14 May 2019, to which we can so far subscribe.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2920	The size has decided that the growth of passenger transport in metropolitan areas should be taken with public transport, bicycles and corridors. The center part is also fully behind that goal. But I have to be allowed to file that personally I have not missed my car for a single second here in Oslo. At home in Northern Ireland, on the other hand, a day-to-day without the car would have been very complicated. The centre party wants a transport and communication service that has a good impact on business and everyday life for people. We want a well-developed collective offer across the country and regret that the KID scheme – the collective scheme in the districts – has not continued with this government. It was a transport system adapted to the spread-built strips and provided the possibility of transport other than a car. The central party knows that there are major geographical differences in this country. Therefore, we need different solutions in different areas of mobility, but preparedness should be at the bottom. I'm worried that this mobility readiness that we've had by having taxis all over the country is disappearing. It makes it even more difficult to cope without being able to drive a car by yourself. A number of proposals have been made in this matter, such as a proposal calling on the government to promote a national policy on electric bicycles on public land. The centre party considers that this is best taken care of by local decision-makers. But the centre party will vote in favour of one of the proposals in this case, and that is proposal No. 9, which asks the government «soon to propose a permit in the Road Traffic Act to allow municipalities to regulate the rental of electric bicycles on public land». It should be the municipalities that require how such kick cycles can be parked and set aside. Collective traffic, corridors and bicycles are definitely not modern, but it works. Micromobility, such as: Electric bicycles, they may be new and modern, but people have always developed new ways of getting along. I guess electric bicycles can get in the situation that we can get as sharp distinctions between those that are for and against, as in the scooter debate. But it's effective, and I think it's the municipalities that are entitled to regulate this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2938	We have a clear starting point for this debate. The transport sector accounts for about one third of Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions, which should be reduced by 50 pst. by 2030. It's the back door for many of the discussions we have here in the Chamber on transport. Then it's just that the question is how serious we look at these climate change, how seriously do we take the Paris goals, which we now advocate, with both 2 and 3 degrees of global warming. It's the whole back porch here. If we are serious, we must take swift and radical action. One of the largest sources of emissions in transport is, as we also know, freight and passenger cars. It is also fundamental that in order to achieve climate goals, driving in and around cities must be reduced, while at the same time facilitating collective, cycling and walking. It's become a mantra. We've repeated this many times now, but it doesn't get any less true for that reason. It's getting more and more true. At the same time, the government is facilitating more growth in passenger car traffic through giant motorways. When those highways fall into the cities, what happens? Then there'll be more queues towards the cities. It's also elementary, but it's being neglected in planning. It's being neglected in connection with the West Corridor, E18. It will be neglected in connection with the planned ferry-free E39, as the representative of the place mentioned. There's going to be a target conflict, it's said, in the planning basis of the ferry-free E39. It says: ‘The increasing traffic of E39 towards cities creates a target conflict that must be resolved in cities by means of urban environmental agreements.’ Yes, and now important parties are failing in the urban environment agreements themselves. Makan! This is where you meet your sails in the doorway. In addition, there is an important point which is under-communicated and which is the basis for this good proposal for the Greens. Investing in public transport, bicycles and corridors can give more freedom of movement, including the necessary urban transport. We get a more open and more pleasant city, a city that is easier to get into. In the middle of this, we're getting the toll debate, and we're going to come back to it next week, so I'm not going to fire up under it right now. However, I have barely met any transport and urban development professionals who do not believe that passenger car traffic in the centre has to go down, and that it has to cost something for each individual to get this done. Then we see the contours of an entirely new transport situation in urban struts. Trains and tracks and rigid bus routes create these main lines towards the cities, and then we get different food solutions – incredibly exciting, and I'll get back to that. I would like to address the suggestions made by SV in the vote, plus that I would like to announce that we are voting in favour of all the proposals of the Green Party, with the exception of proposal No. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2958	The representative Arne Nävra has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2963	I think the title of the Green Party's proposal, 'Modern freedom of movement through reduced car traffic', is good. I lived in Oslo 40 years ago, and I live here again now, and that's a radical difference. That time there were a lot of cars in the streets, especially around here. I lived in about the same place as I do now, and up the highway it was completely full. Fortunately today the trick is still going, but at the same time there is much less car traffic, especially in the center. Why is that? Yes, because a fantastic public transport system has been introduced in Oslo. The other major cities that also have urban environmental agreements, which have now become urban growth agreements, have also partly succeeded, not so much in terms of public transport, but they have actually greatly reduced car traffic. In Trondheim, which I know best, and I have been working on these questions in Trondheim for over ten years, there has been a clear decline in the number of cars. The objective in 2009 when the environmental package in Trondheim was introduced was to reduce transport demand from 57 p.m. Car parts for 50 pst. That's what you've done. That's for sure. Now it's the zero growth target that's going to apply to the future. It is a commitment that Trondheim and the other three major cities have signed in connection with the urban growth agreement. I understand that very soon negotiations have been completed and will sign the agreement in Trondheim and Trondheims. It's probably the case that in Oslo too you're negotiating, so you get a new urban index that's going to apply to this city. Stavanger and Bergen probably have contracts, but they're also going to renew them gradually. I believe that the line we've been leading in the last ten years, with reward schemes and strict demands on how car development is going to take place in cities, must continue. For me – that the great ambitions that the Green Party writes about here can be achieved, but for the time being we need to take steps. I think we're on the right track to solve both the climate challenge and the cozy city atmosphere.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2974	In cities on the car's premises, the bus is in a rush queue, and it is unsafe to ride. It provides traffic accidents, dangerous air and microplastics from car decks. And that gives greenhouse gas emissions. One third of Norwegian emissions are from transport to be reduced by at least 50 pst. by 2030. Nevertheless, car traffic in Hordaland, Rogaland, Oslo and Akershus and Trøndelag is expected to increase by 55 pst. by 2050. It doesn't go up. In addition to the proposal on which the Labour Party is involved, on state funding, only the Green and SV parties have their own proposals in this matter. No one else will support sustainable freedom of movement as a general principle in the national transport plan in order to prioritise collective, gangs, bicycles and micro-mobility over urban traffic. Nor does the Workers' Party, with which we run large cities in Norway, want to. It could have been positive if they were there and helped us get a better flow of traffic in those cities, including the representatives of the Stortinget. The Greens mean, among other things: the time has come to scrape all capacity-enhancing road projects to the major cities and to scale down large motorway projects to two and three-field roads with pass-by fields and river ferries in order to avoid major natural interference, increased traffic and emissions and huge toll costs. It is not true that this contributes to moving money into the transport budget from the districts to the cities, as the representative from the Right said – it was also a good example of a real debate here on what it will contribute to. The representative Orten is himself from the municipality of Midsund, a small municipality outside a large municipality, Molde. The small municipality, the district maybe, if that's how we define it, is completely dependent on how we plan the city of Molde, for most people who live in Midsund, use the city of Molde, probably daily, by going there and working. More trains will also have the Environmental Party of Greens, more money for collectives in districts, better adapted collective networks and better deployment of electricity networks – I could still have a long time, and this is just transport policy. We also want better depreciation rules for shipping. We want better both agricultural deductions and fishing deductions, etc. No party has voted against more toll projects than the Greens, no one loves the bombing in Oslo more than the Greens – both because voting against motorways and for reduced car traffic is the best thing for people and the environment. Today the news came that seven out of ten in Oslo support the bombing if it funds collective, gangs and bikes, which it just does. Nationally, six out of ten support the same principle. It's very strong numbers. I refer to the proposals of the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e2996	The representative of Une Bastholm has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e3001	I think I can promise the representative Bastholm that there will be no train to M.P. with the first thing – perhaps with the exception of 17 May. This does not mean that, to a large extent, there are not many important elements in the discussion that the Stortinget has had in this case about the Green Party's proposal for a representative, which it is also relevant to consider further in the transport planning of large cities. Because our cities are changing. Transport needs are changing and transport supply is changing significantly. That's why, in many big cities, we're happy to give people an alternative to the car that makes them travel collectively because it's a simpler journey in everyday life, because they're both environmentally aware and busy getting there as quickly as possible. Therefore, it means that we are happy with both the massive development of infrastructure on the road network – also bus needs road – and the enormous effort that is now taking place. Oslo is a good example of that, with 100 more train departures every day in and out of Oslo than in 2013. That means that people have a real alternative to the car. At the same time, technological development is one of the most important contributors to reducing greenhouse gas emissions – Norwegian electric car policy is a good example of it – and other technology developments result in solutions other than those we have used to see, many places appear. It shows that there's a debt to be out early, even in regulating us rationally. It's almost fun to remind the Storting that the debate everyone had, with the partial ridicule that happened from some political party on the day we modernised the Segway Code, is essentially the reason why we now get this new micromobility that we see out here, with electric bicycles on every corner of the street. It provides a simpler, faster and better way to travel in the city. When you keep it together with investments in infrastructure that provide better space, and a built-in collective offering that makes people take the car away in the big cities, it gives us new opportunities. I'm happy about that. I think it's necessary, and I think we're going to see even more of it in the years to come. Therefore, it is natural that we look at some of these proposals also in further planning, for example. Linked to micromobility. Now there will be a report from a technology selection, which will also look at what opportunities we have before new mobility in the future. I feel that the policy we have pursued, which has contributed to massive resources towards the big cities, has contributed to providing people with an alternative to the car. There's an option many people seem to have the same thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e3014	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e3019	I mentioned in my post that an obvious challenge for the Council of State and for the government is that they build these great four-field roads and feed into the urban areas. And then what? I mentioned the West Corridor. It's the plans, it's the wet dreams: getting even more fields into the city. What happens then? What challenges, then, do the Councils have? How will he address that challenge? Does he agree that increased car use will create more queues in the centre and greater challenges to be addressed to local authorities? And he accepts that there are the same challenges to the major motorway projects towards the cities of the ferry-free E39, for example. – as I said in my post?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e3026	I have to admit that wet dreams about the E18 West Corridor still benefit me. I'm not going to ignore the fact that it appears once in a while, but I still have the benefit of having it. I think there is a need for capacity on our main road network, and that is the important discussion that I think SV bombs on. The E18 West Corridor, E6 from the north, is not a local road to Oslo, it is an important main trajectory through our country – a road that must function in order for the cargo space to function in and out of Oslo, which must act as transit routes for the traffic passing through it. In order for our freight terminal at Alnabru, which allows us to get more goods on the railway, to work, we need to have capacity for him. That's what this is about, and I think it's bad climate policy to make sure that we don't have enough capacity, which means that the cars have to line up and spend unnecessary time. Therefore, we also need to have capacity development of the road network in some areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e3035	I expect the Council of State to follow closely the research reports on transport. I'm convinced of it. This means that he has read the TØI report and that he has read what other research environments say – that we can almost never build ourselves out of a queue problem towards cities by increasing the number of fields. That means we're going to have to put the problem on for a little while, there's going to be more cars coming back on the roads, and then we're equidistant. How many billion have the state councils used? This government has spent an incredible number of billions. I will not mention that a driver from Drammen has to pay between 30 000 and 40 000 kroner a year in tolls to get into town – but I mentioned it anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e3042	What's amazing about the representative Nävra is that he knows better than the ones who are now counting on the projects, what the toll level is. This shows to the extent that the certainty of the representative Nävra is relatively low. I think it is necessary both to build up the road network and – not least – what this government is doing massively: to expand collective services in the big cities. Unfortunately, what disappointing things about SV by day is that they don't like to enjoy the formidable efforts that are now being made on collective development – as a contribution to relieving the road network, which frees the capacity of those who have to run, the utility transport, for example, as a contribution to allowing more people to opt out of the car because they actually want to use the collective service. That's where the great promise comes from. We blame billions of dollars in the big urban areas, money that they could only dream of when SV put in government, as a contribution to the realization of county and municipal infrastructure. That's what makes the big rises in cities.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e3049	The councils would be surprised at how well I know More and Romesdal counties! I am aware that trains do not go to Midsund, but it is a municipality that lives a lot of fishing and agriculture. Therefore, it was not accidental that I also mentioned our policy to strengthen fishing and agriculture in Norway. I was going to get into the orphanage and an ever more electrified transport in the cities. We imagine that we're in a densely built strip, we might even be in a city. There is the fact that we insist that the cars should arrive quickly, so that there is also more conflict with soft road users, who are moving slower. That is why one of our suggestions has now been to allow castors, electric bicycles and electric bicycles to get a little higher in speed, and that we get the speed down to 30 km/h on the cars. That's what I think would make traffic flow better, and that there were fewer conflicts between road users. Would the Council of State be able to assess anything like that?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e3056	Initially, I believe that the speed to which we have regulated today on the equipment that is available is in the vicinity of reasonableness. It will be necessary to run 40 km/h, 45 km/h and 50 km/h on these electric car cycles we are looking at outside here now. I don't think I'd recommend it. I think it's necessary to look at what kind of new technological solutions we can get. And I'm a technology optimist. Our electric car policy in the passenger car market has contributed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions from passenger car transport, and he has also contributed to triggering new technology shifts in transport. I believe that we should reach our climate commitments in the transport sector, for example, we need to look at how we can get electrified or get zero emission solutions on heavier vehicles as well. We have great potential in the future. Unfortunately, this proposal calls for completely different measures from those proposed by the Green Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e3063	My question was micromobility – these small, effective ways people have started to move around. Especially in Oslo we see that there have been a lot of cycles, so it's a real challenge right now. We have raised several proposals here because the municipalities lack regulation possibilities today. Ideally, you may wish that the municipalities did more for avoiding traffic accidents, but we do not have the opportunity to do so, and so we ask the Stortinget here for help to get better national regulations – something the Stortinget does not want. In the case of assistance from the engine for unregistered electric bicycles, there is currently a maximum limit of 25 km/h. We're not talking about 40-50km/h on these electric bicycles, we're talking about 30 km/h. The same thing applies to the electric cycles. We also believe that if the drivers and the various motorized micro-mobility modes to travel had had a similar speed, there would have been much better floating and less traffic-threatening situations in the city.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e3070	I'm not sure if I understand the question, but it's very rare that the Progress Party is asked if we can allow a higher speed, and then answer no. I'm not going to do it now either. When mobility changes occur across the whole population, among others. As a result of actually deregulating this – we were ridiculed for it, but now we allow this new way of travelling – we also need to adapt regulations over time to it. I don't ignore that one can do, but I think we have some steps until we have to go, and we have to have experience of what we're now seeing evolve. We have to regulate at least possible, but we have to regulate what is necessary to regulate. And then we have to make sure that technology actually improves our everyday lives, as people now experience that new opportunities do. So I'm waiting, as I was in my main post, for the report from the Technology Selection and how they look that we need to have, but not too much, regulation on these areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e3076	This is very promising. What had been useful, I think, had been about the motorized bicycles, the loading cycles and the kicking cycles could have come up at speed, but that we then regulated that they should be on the road. They should preferably go where there is a bicycle path and otherwise be in the roadway. Then there is a much clearer distinction, because if one increases the speed of them before being regulated, so that they meet the soft road users on the pavement or pavement, we get more traffic accidents. My question is then whether the Council of State is willing to implement the regulations that are needed to make it more predictable and more information about where the various motorized new ways to travel, i.e. on the road, at the same time, and preferably before, you regulate for higher speed.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e3081	When the Environmental Party of Greens sees my previous answer as very promising, I realize that I have stretched the knit well far, and will try to proliferate back again! In principle, I believe that there is reason to consider how we better adapt this, but I believe that the Greens are quite alone in believing that we can move all the traffic that is now into the road network and displace the car. Within cities, there is a requirement for supply streams to be detected. We have to have a name that actually handles the traffic that's here. We're some of them saying that it's a goal to dampen traffic growth. The government is actively involved, but it's not a goal to get rid of all vans that deliver goods that make this city, Oslo, go around. That means we're going to need capacity in the road network of the cars that go there, even for years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e3086	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e3093	Closed streets have the consequence that customers cannot drive a car. If they don't get to where they want to go, shops go bankrupt and have to close, which unfortunately reinforces the negative effect of deserted and abandoned streets and a lot of asphalt darkness. It does not necessarily lead to less car traffic, because in the few streets where it is still possible to drive a car, it is long queues, corks and chaos. It would actually be much better to distribute the small traffic. I want to clarify that, because there is not much car traffic in Oslo, at least not if you compare with other international cities and cities of the same size. If you had distributed traffic across several streets, you would have gotten less cork, queue and chaos. It would also lead to smaller emissions and less slow queues. Since the drivers now have to run long roundabouts to arrive, there will also be more emissions. It's such a pity that in, for example, The Labour Party has given the Green Free Rules to the Green Party to steer its anti-car policy completely free. I want to commend the Green Party for one thing, and it is that they are at least very open and honest about their policies and their clear resistance to cars and drivers. But I hope and believe that both the Progress Party and the Green Party should agree that it is positive that today's government has actually changed the legislation and opened up electrical means of transport – new means of transport that take less space and do not pollute, neither in terms of noise nor emissions. An example of this is electric bicycles. It's become insanely popular, and more people are now beginning to talk about it having to be regulated and controlled. Another measure that hopefully will be well received if it is a goal to get fewer cars in the centre and more to drive smaller vehicles as a motorcycle is that we are likely in a short time – I hope, at least, from the Progress Party – to open up those who have a category B driving licence for the car today, after perhaps a short course can obtain a driving licence for the light motorcycle, which in turn will contribute to increased mobility and less need for space and area. It's going to be exciting to see if it's received as well as electric bicycles. Then I have to say that the main argument that was repeated here – especially from SV, but it is probably also in the Environmental Party of the Greens rhetoric – is that the resistance to the car is due to emissions. Then I would like to remind you that thanks to today's government's charging policy, we now take in almost 13 billion. NOK less in the taxes from the new car sale than we did before we became a government. As a result, we have the world’s most environmentally friendly new car park. Electric car sales are shooting for year after year, which has led to emissions from new cars being absolutely fantastically historically low, and it is likely to continue going down.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e3104	The Green Party has nothing against cars, it's just that there's no room for everyone in the city. The minimum emissions should be available for those travelling around Norwegian roads. We should all agree on that. That's why I wanted, now that I have the Transport Committee in Stortingen within four walls and the Minister for Transport is here, to say something about the zero growth target that there has been a lot of debate about lately, and that several of my proposals are also in various ways. I believe that it will be a scandal if you now ignore the fact that the zero growth target is going to be about the number of cars inside the city and bringing down the number of cars inside the city, so that there will be another emission target. Cities are growing, and there is no room for all cars in the city without more accidents, pollution and queues. The Green Party, on the other hand, also proposes in the proposals we are debating here today, rather than strengthening the target of 5 pst. annual reductions in car traffic in metropolitan areas. Then I have some time left to clarify a change in proposal No. 15 from us – or from me it will still be in Stortinget, which we will do something about in 2021 – where we realize that it is a bit massaging to repeat it by taking down the normal time in the city to 30 km/h also in this proposal, as we promoted that proposal in the matter we have just dealt with. That is why the new wording for proposal is no. Now 15: ‘The size requests the government to increase the limit of assistance from the engine for unregistered electric bicycles from 25 km/h to 30 km/h.’ The proposal is therefore only about the electric bicycles, the electric bicycles and the electric bicycles that have now occupied the streets of the cities.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e3118	I will continue where I left off in the previous article. The outlines we see of a completely new transport situation in urban areas are simply that we get new feeding methods down to the large collective lines, whether it's trains, buses on a fixed route or what it might be – the urban railway, maybe – and we've got these new bud shots, new means of transport, such as. electric bicycles. I have had the pleasure of using and getting some experience with them, and I must say I am convinced that this will be a quite great revolution in Norway in view of the topography we have. To a large extent, the nodes are located at the bottom of the valley, at the bottom of the city centre, for example. where the station is located. Many could probably fall to the station, but they are horrified to come up again and home in the evening. With the electric bike, it's actually going to be a factor we're going to count on and include in our planning. I'm absolutely convinced of it. This led, among other things, to: until this weekend I ate dinner five miles away and used a bicycle as a means of transport. I rode back again. I didn't take a shower, to say it like that. I'm going to take another case from my neighborhoods, and it really illustrates the possibilities that lie there. We've got the Drammen watercourse. We have the entire Drama area from Drammen up against Hønefoss. There goes a railway called the Randsfjord Railway. Between Hokksund and Hønefoss almost does not stop the train. There's a lot of train stations. The train doesn't stop, but the train lines are there. It's Skotselv, Geithus, Åmot, etc. The train doesn't stop, but people live there. These are densely populated areas. There's the hubs. There's the dents. Then there's a little cork, a little transport problem, right in Langebru. There's a roundabout. Hokksund was one of the first to roundabout. There'll be some queue. What is the answer? Now the four-field highway was investigated to dissolve in the small link between Hokksund and Åmot. But the train does not stop on the same route. Maybe we should fix it first? It could be, for example, by feeding these hubs, which will then be Geithus, Skotselv and Åmot, with good bike paths, routes and possibilities to use the new facilities, such as: the electric bicycle is, instead of thinking about four-field motorways and drawing them with all sorts of thousands between Hokksund and Åmot. I think it's very important to point out the new possibilities that lie there, but we need to facilitate the use of these possibilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e3129	There has been a consensus in Norwegian policy that increased traffic in urban areas should be done by foot, bicycle or collective. There are now some dangerous signals that the goal is no longer clear: the Council of State spoke in its speech about limiting car traffic, but not about not having an increase in car traffic. There are two very different things, so you're now giving vague signals from the government about whether you're stuck on that goal. If you are going to stick to that goal, you have to have stronger tools than today to get it done, and then you need to strengthen the urban environment packages. It is then necessary not to sweep out of the toll debate and remove the measures that can reduce car traffic and remove the measures that can provide people with good collective, walking and cycling opportunities. I've been a train fighter my whole life, and I guess I'm the one who's been sitting the longest on the Storting of those who are now sitting. That's why it's a little funny, when the Progress Party now boasts of the railway operation, to remember what the Progress Party meant a few years ago. Then there was a traffic policy figure in the Progress Party of Kenneth Svendsen and said we should lay down the Bergensbanen. He thought that was a very good idea, and there were several sections he thought should be removed. As recently as in 2011, Per Sandberg, who has previously led the transport committee here on the Stortinget, admitted that the cuts proposed by the Progress Party at that time on the railway, would result in sections being closed, fewer trains coming, and more expensive tickets. I think the Progress Party should be very pleased that they have not been able to get through their proposals in this Chamber. Then you had not had so much to brag about now. When SV came into government, we reversed a very long-lasting trend where there had been no investment on the railways in Norway, except on the Fly train, which had been established. There were a lot of people who said to me when I fought for the train, that I was driving and carrying oats to a dead horse. Now everyone understands that trains are future, both in local traffic and on the long distances. Finally, the Council of State has to start caring about goods on the track. It will make the road much more traffic safe, and less wear on it would contribute well to the climate.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e3140	I had imagined that the transport committee in today's debates would be a break between the two major debates, and I didn't really think I was going to use the time for a break, but I would like to say a few things about what has come up now. Firstly, I would like to say that the Oslo Packages have changed Oslo City, without the Oslo Packages, you would not have been able to do what you are doing today. Roads have been built in the past, underground traffic has been shifted by building the Fortress Tunnel and the Opera Tunnel, and Granfoss Tunnel and Tåsen Tunnel have been built. It's really just to mention all of the road projects that have gone ahead of what we have today: Oslopacket 1 had 80 pst. road projects and 20 pst. public transport, Oslopackak 2 was a pure collective package with the jersey bet, and Oslopackak 3 had very large investments in the way at first. As far as I remember, it was actually 45 pst. by Oslopackak 3, which was Oslo's share of it, road development, for it was completing the projects I just mentioned, the Operatunnel and what was necessary to get this underground. I'm in favour of these Oslo packages because I've seen the effect of them, I've been in on it. There has been an alliance in this region between the Workers' Party and the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left on both sides of the states, and we have put very great emphasis on agreeing, for this should be a long-term commitment. What we see today is that we've done well to keep it, but now it's a little wobbly, and we'll get back to that in a few days. The other thing I want to say is that I'm of those who are a little worried about electric bicycles and kicking bikes when I go from here up to the National Theatre every day, because they don't have a traffic culture, these road users. I am simply concerned about how to get this flock of fast-moving people and equipment to follow traffic rules. When I went up Karl Johan here one day, I looked after a lady, a cyclist, who stopped on the red light. I thought I would go away and take her by the hand and congratulate her on the day! The third thing I want to say is that the E18 is not an extension of traffic capacity. There are eight fields in Sandvika, there are four fields from Sandvika to Oslo, plus two collective fields, and then it opens up for eight fields in Oslo. That's not the problem, that it's open to it, but it does a lot with the internal traffic in Bærum.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e3153	I see it being filled with people in the hall, but there is unfortunately little reason to believe that it is my contribution in this debate that is the reason for it. I took the floor to sign out the statement from Bastholm and the Greens on the fact that the Labour Party does not vote for most of the Greens' proposals. [[Laughter]] Let me just say that many of the suggestions both in the previous case and in this case are very good. The reason why the Workers' Party does not vote for them is that we believe that there are important overall issues related to the work on the National Transport Plan. In the past, we had four planning documents for the transport sector: one road and road traffic plan, one railway plan, one air plan and one port plan. So Stortinget decided that it was inappropriate to have it like that, we wanted to see the transport policy in context and discuss the major lines of transport policy every four years. The proposals that the Greens have invited us to discuss, both in the previous case and in this – the previous issue of children's needs and interests in transport policy and now a number of proposals on less traffic – naturally belong in such general discussions that we are going to have in the rolling of the national transport plan. I just remind you that overall important transport policy objectives, such as zero vision – zero killed and badly damaged in traffic – were launched and adopted in due course through the National Transport Plan. The objective of taking forward traffic growth into account collectively, by bicycle and by-pass was also an overall objective pursued by the Stortinget in a revision of the national transport plan. In fact, I would like to warn you that we will reach the next two years, until we have to revise the national transport plan, return to the old system and address some areas of transport policy and adopt overall objectives for them. In transport policy, the different modes of transport belong closely together, and that is also where we launched the concept of transport corridors in our time, precisely to see different means of transport policy in a wider context. I look forward to the process of revising the national transport plan, with broad consultations, extensive processes and with both county municipalities and stakeholder organisations, and then we will return to many of these issues there.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e3168	Now the hall is getting even fuller, and I am absolutely convinced that it is to hear my post, as opposed to Sverre Myrlis. I want to say that just as the representative Sverre Myrli said, this is a very good proposal, which is very important for both us in the transport committee and others to take on in that job. In general planning, it is very important to be able to look back on time – as the representative Igstad was in – and see what kind of consequences what has been done before have been the starting point for re-planning. I lived in Oslo a few years ago. The world has changed completely. Since I got into Stortinget, I have not driven a single meter by car, I have managed to use the collective offer in the city. But if it had been too long, I would not have chosen it, then I would have made sure to have a car here. But it's actually important if you're preparing, planning a little bit, and saying that's the way it should be. The most important thing, perhaps, is that when working on collective investment, saying that much of the growth is to be taken through both public transport, cycling and walking, it means that good road projects must also be opened up in big cities, so that the overall road network has a standard that allows streets and roads in residential areas to be unloaded, developing urban areas and guaranteeing good accessibility and capacity. So you have to look at both things at the same time. I think that's absolutely crucial. But what is often a little difficult in debates like this is that it is going to be the extreme variant at both ends, where the representative Johnsen of the Progress Party believes the Greens hate all drivers. They don't hate the drivers – they're the people in the cars – but they may want fewer cars. That's what's a little bit of a point here, and I don't think that this kind of rhetoric is going on. What we in the Central Party are concerned about – and it probably surprises no one, but it is a reality – is that in many places in the country, public transport is almost absent. We had a discussion here about express buses, which is the only alternative people have to take public transport over long distances. It doesn't exist. There are also people who live almost on the railway track – including myself. Trains have a take-off frequency of maybe four to five hours, making people drive 16 miles instead of taking public transport. It is also important in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e3181	The representative Arne Nävra has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e3187	There has been some uncertainty about community action in cities following the debate on tolls. We're going to come back to that debate next week, as I said, so I'm not going to mess it up right now. But there are a few questions that I would have liked to have answered from the Council of State, and that might have made me a little safer on the situation in the future. There are two clear questions, which relate to the last two things we've had in the room today. One is if the Council of State is still on the zero growth target, if it's still on the ground, and if he wants to fight for it. The second question is whether he will continue to work for the urban growth agreements we have, and see that the urban environment packages are a suitable instrument for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e3194	No more people have asked for the floor. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e3210	At the request of the Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that – within the allocated speaking time – up to seven lines of reply are given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e3219	We have had a matter for consideration in the committee: Changes in the abortion law – foetal reduction. This is a matter that the government has had out at the hearing, and the committee also chose to have open consultation on the matter. An overall committee suggests that under 15 000 abortions or abortions are carried out in Norway each year and that the figure has been declining. Most abortions occur early in pregnancy, and as much as 90 pst. have been completed before the end of the ninth week of pregnancy. An overall committee further indicates that there are very few who want to reduce the unborn child for non-medical reasons and, according to the National Treatment Service, 14 reductions were carried out during the period 2016-2018 in the case of twin pregnancy without a proven serious disease in the foetus. There's not a joint committee on the rest of the situation, so I'm going to go over to my post. Foster reduction was not a current issue when the abortion law was introduced. The new proposal explicitly and logically regulates foetal reduction. It is high time, it also seems to the professional community that performs all foetal reductions in Norway, and that took the initiative to change the law, namely the National Center for Foetal Medicine at St. Olav's Hospital. The government has proposed a change in the law which means that all foetal reductions, like other abortions after the 12th week of pregnancy, are now to be considered. This does not imply any change in the basic principle of the abortion law, rather it is a necessary clean-up, which the professional community has also sought to clarify. In the debate, there has been a dispute about the medical evidence base. The American expert, Mark Evans, has done too much research on foetal reduction, and some of the critics of the government's proposals have based his figures, but here it's important to bear in mind that Evans practices quite differently from the Norwegian colleagues. The Norwegian doctors believe that there are important medical reasons why the intervention should take place after 12 weeks, i.e. after the limit of self-determined abortion. In addition, there is other research, including: from the Netherlands, with completely different figures, inter alia: with a higher risk estimate. The Norwegian trade union community believes that it is as representative of the practice they themselves practice as Evans’ figures are. In particular, there are three important arguments for foetal reduction to be addressed. Firstly, foetal reduction is carried out at the level of self-determined abortion. This alone is a sufficient argument for the new rule. Secondly, the decision on foetal reduction is special in that it does not concern only the pregnant woman and the foetus being aborted. The remaining foetus(s) are at risk of intervention – the risk of which is professional disagreement, but we are dealing with the professional environments of St. Olav's hospital, which are those who are performing foetal reductions in Norway today, and their estimation of risk. This makes foetal reduction something other than a normal self-determined abortion. Thirdly, foetal reduction is a highly specialised technologically demanding intervention where medical expertise is important for assessment for each case. A risk balance against potential benefits in the light of the pregnancy situation is necessary and requires dialogue with professional expertise. Note that self-determined abortion has a unique status in health legislation. It is the only healthcare that the patient has an unrestricted right to, and can ask for without a health care professional being able to review the decision for professional reasons. Foster reduction, which is such a professionally complex issue, should not be in the same category. Membership is a way of ensuring that all relevant medical and human factors emerge before the decision is taken. Foster reduction is about more than the woman's choice; an abortion subject is a support in this difficult choice. Many of us agree that foetal reduction raises major ethical issues. I am therefore concerned that ethical reflection is not done in a vacuum, but in dialogue with others. I am concerned that the integrity and mental health of the woman should be maintained throughout. I am concerned about how the woman is being cared for through the process, and together with the majority of the committee, we believe that the legal certainty of the woman should be ensured. Women shall experience non-discrimination, her integrity shall not be violated, her health and social situation shall be given weight, and the abortion-seeking woman shall receive safe treatment under the heading. Then I will come back in a later article.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e3249	Today, most likely, a majority in this room will vote for a restriction on women's self-determination in the abortion law. A majority supports making Kjell Ingolf Roppstad's words that you can manage one, you can manage two, turn into legal text. This will be a step backwards for the self-determination of Norwegian women in the difficult and deep personal choice of how many children you are able to provide. Not enough with that: the majority are free enough to claim that this is not a tightening, but here they meet themselves in the door. From this pulpit on 19 January 2017, Minister of Health Bent Höie stated that ‘it was The Stortinget in 1975 that passed a law opening up to foetal reduction in Norway’. Höie concluded that the right to self-determined abortion means that within 12 weeks the woman has the right to decide how many fetuses she will bear. In this case, the government parties should listen to Bent Höie from 2017, not the 2019 edition, because today the majority is tightening up the law. A handful of women are made a symbol of the battle of conservative forces – a historic victory, said Ropstad. The presumptuous liberal parties, the Left and the Advance Party, agree. The propulsion party’s health policy spokesperson: ‘FRP always releases its representatives on issues related to abortion and biotechnology. And I have not given a free card to negotiate away my voice." Another representative from the same party said that the only change in the abortion law he could vote for was a change in the liberal direction. Today both vote to restrict women's self-determination. But all women with multiple pregnancies – not just twin pregnancies – now have to deal with new abortion laws. Multiple pregnancies are risk pregnancy — the more foetuses, the greater the risk of complications, spontaneous abortions, premature birth, premature birth, loss of health and harm to mother and foetus. How the woman faces such a risk is a relationship between the woman herself and her treating doctor, we believe in the Workers' Party – a risk that the government itself recognises is significant. The final assessment of this risk must be in the hands of the woman, not in the hands of doctors. The majority talk about ethics, but where is the ethics of taking decision-making authority, autonomy, from the woman in an already difficult situation? In this debate, the majority try to cover up a political horse trade with so-called professional arguments, but they are revealed. The arguments don't hold water. It is confirmed by the consultation round of the proposal, where an overwhelming majority of the hearing bodies opposed the amendment – heavy professional bodies such as the Norwegian Gynecological Association, the Medical Association, the Norwegian Mortgage Association, the Norwegian Nursing Association, the Medical Board, the Women's Clinic at Haukeland University Hospital and the State Health Authority have delivered good and thorough hearing opinions in spite of the rapid legislative process. The Haste Office may be understood, the Minister for Gender Equality and the party leader of the Left Party have already announced a rematch. I guess it's just a break for women's self-determination. The working party will not have a change of laws, whether it is a break or not. Erna Solberg negotiated the abortion law to achieve majority rule. She got her government, and Norwegian women get a tightening. The Labour Party today is voting against the whole amendment of the law, and we do not support the vote by the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e3271	Self-determined abortion is and must be strong in Norway. The woman herself knows her own situation best and is almost ready to take the assessment linked to abortion. When abortion laws were adopted in the 1970s, a problem was not foster reduction. New technology has given the possibility to remove one or more fetuses by multiple births and to continue pregnancy with the other fetuses or the other fetuses. This raises new, difficult ethical questions. When the theme is late abortion, we should be careful not to push the argument out to the extreme – in both directions. Reduction in the number of foetuses is too important to allow a caricature of the core of the debate. The Norwegian abortion law is strong, and it is a compromise that balances the woman’s right to own and foster her legal protection – difficult but correct. The fetus's diets are gradually increasing as the viability outside of the uterus increases. These figures indicate that women and the health care community benefit wisely from the law. 96 pst. of all abortions occur before week 12. Some indicate that the few late abortions are not well-founded. I have great faith that Norwegian women are making wise choices, and that decisions about late abortion are taken on the basis of their own and family situation, their siblings' needs and in thorough assessments of what life a person sees themselves doing for this new man. Female say whether abortion will and should be based on a few others should be entitled to know. We should be careful to change the dishes of women before we have a long fight to achieve. Different aspects of abortion are difficult to discuss. I thought things were about to take on a knowledge-based rather than a misleading debate. Today's abortion laws say nothing about foetal reduction. The abortion of tomorrow will do so. The changes we adopt today will equate the reduction in the number of foetuses in a pregnancy with the treatment of other latents, and these interventions usually have to be taken between weeks 12 and 18. All applications for abortion after week 12 are now dealt with by a note, subject to the 1975 law. Technological development will continue, and new issues and questions will arise, including here. We have been given more and more information about the properties of the foetus early in pregnancy. It opens up new solutions, but it also creates some new dilemmas, and these we're forced to handle in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e3290	The right to self-determined abortion is strong in Norway. Abortion is not a law of any kind, but a law of great real and symbolic value for women's rights and reproductive health. For this reason, I would like to emphasize, in the introduction, that although the Central Party is in agreement with the Government in the matter, we take a strong distance from the process that has been behind this bill, where a law of such great value is changed on the basis of a party political debate and a game of government power. The government proposes to clarify in the law that all child-reduction requests should be dealt with under the heading. Foster reduction is a complex issue, dealing with both legal, medical and ethical perspectives. These perspectives should be respected, regardless of the position taken. There are several arguments that I support the proposal to regulate foetal reduction in law. Ethical evaluations differ in the case of abortion. Nor can the intervention be compared to abortion in a single pregnancy. Foster reduction is not a abortion, but an intervention in a pregnancy to continue. Foster reduction was not a current possibility in Norway at the time when pregnancy interruption was promised and, not least, foetal reduction is a complicated intervention with the risk of remaining foetuses. Different numbers are given for risk of complications, but in Norway 5-10 pst is assumed. loss of remaining foetuses in the event of a reduction in twin pregnancy. This I think makes foetal reduction a particular ethically demanding intervention. The fact that none of Norway's foetal reductions occur until after week 12 for medical and technical reasons is also an argument for the bill. Paragraph 3 of the Mortgage Regulation states today: ‘When the termination of pregnancy may be carried out before the end of the 12th week of pregnancy, the woman herself takes the final decision on the termination of pregnancy. The interruption may not be carried out before the end of the 12th week of pregnancy, a decision to interrupt a name is taken, in consultation with the woman. [[...]] National treatment services for advanced invasive foetal medicine my foetal reduction should be treated in the same way as other abortions after week 12, i.e. in the name, and that's what I'm talking about with them. According to the scientific community that performs foetal reduction, legal changes will also make it easier to handle foetal reduction requests from abroad. At the hearing in the committee, we were informed that they had had 30 requests for foetal reduction of healthy foetuses from foreign women, from countries such as Denmark, Sweden, Poland, Ireland, France, the Netherlands and Germany. The treatment service at St. Olav had no desire to become a European centre for foetal reduction. To those who claim that the proposal to regulate foetal reduction of healthy foetuses means a historical weakening of abortion laws: that story goes back three years in time. Before 2016, foetal reduction of healthy foetuses was not an approved practice in Norway, and other European countries have not established such a national practice today. In the period 2002–2016, foetal reduction was performed only on a medical indication. In 2009, the trade community called for guidance on whether the intervention could also be carried out in uncomplicated multiple conceptions, and the Directorate addressed this with the Ministry in 2010. The red-green government did not care for a clarification of this question. First in 2016, the Ministry of Justice came with its assessment of foetal reduction, and that he should be treated on the basis of the law on abortion and be self-determined before the week of pregnancy of 12. Thus, before 2016, foetal reduction of healthy foetuses was not an established practice in the Norwegian health service. Now he's allowed. What is now legalized is actually more liberal than what was practice until 2016 and under the red-green government. The center party has program confirmation that we're behind today's abortion law, but we won't allow foetal reduction of healthy fetuses. The Central Party will be tabling a draft representative in 2016 on this point. On that basis, the Centre Party will support legislative amendments, but the Centre Party's representatives are set free in this matter, so that they can vote after the over-interpretation say in a matter of such an ethical nature.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e3312	History has shown that the female body is political, and throughout history we have witnessed that the female body has been clothed and stripped of authoritarian forces in different countries. In different parts of the world, we have seen women become food machines by being deprived of prevention for ideological or geopolitical reasons. Women have been forced to have abortions, among others. for authorities to seek control of the growth of the population. We've seen that the female body has also been used as a weapon to paralyze the whole community. History has shown that the woman's body is political, so questions about the woman's body are no joke, there's nothing to be taken easy on. In the global picture, we see that women are deprived of the right to control their own bodies, a right that we see is restricted a little after a little bit of a lot of places in the world, and unfortunately we are also witnessing it today in Norway. That we are today witnessing a historical weakening of women's right to control their own bodies, ever since the abortion law was introduced, is both a serious and a major backbiting in the gender equality struggle. There is no other way to interpret the government than that they believe that a denominator is better able to assess and assess what is right for women in the issue of foetal reduction. But I can't understand it, so I almost have to ask again: do they really think that a denominator is better able to assess the woman's situation – ability, will, family relationship, physical condition, wants for the future – than women themselves? It's time to phase out the denominator. The autumn’s debate on women’s right to self-assessment and the effect of consideration, the lack of confidence in women’s assessment and the heavy burden of treatment for women, clearly shows that self-determination should be extended. The female body is political. It's also the women's struggle, because all over the world women fight against forces that will restrict their rights – and all the time with this in mind that the women's struggle should hold together across culture, religion and political positions. It is – and should be – a cross-political struggle, based on women’s trust in each other. Some things are so fundamental that we have to ensure cross-political communion around them. Women's right to control their own bodies is such a matter, where we have had long-term trust, a trust that has been strong in Norway ever since the abortion law was introduced and until Erna Solberg opened up to negotiate women's right to decide over their own bodies – that is, make the woman's body a negotiating card. Our female prime minister has used great efforts to convince Norwegian women that the struggle for women is not cross-political. It's a shame, and it's the task of the left-hand side to repair this damage that's been inflicted on the women's struggle, and we're already starting to vote against the restriction of women's right to control their own bodies.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e3331	The matter we are now dealing with is no simple matter for the Left. It should be clear to everyone in this room. We are actually debating a medical intervention that no one had imagined when we celebrated the law of self-determined abortion in 1978 as a significant victory for the women's struggle. In terms of party politics, there is a continuous line for us from Katti Anker Møller to Eva Kolstad to today's left-wing women, where there are few who see any reason to mark this day as something other than one they would prefer to forget. Personally, the fight for the abortion law belongs to part of my political awakening, as an important act of solidarity in the name of equality. It doesn't make so little sense to have to record the massive resistance to the bill from a closely aligned women's movement. The extent of such interventions we are debating today, foetal reduction without a medical indication, is small in Norwegian context. The thing is, as it appears, primarily of strong symbolic character, and it was primarily in such a context that I have the impression that it was discussed at Granavolden. As you know, political symbols themselves must now and then be the subject of compromises. It is important to pay particular attention to the fact that our only medical professional environment carrying out such interventions in Norway, vis-à-vis an overall health and care committee, on a trip to Trondheim and St. Olav's hospital, asked for this legal regulation and even warned that Norway should possibly be the only country in Europe with such liberal practices. It is difficult to understand that the National Centre for Foetal Medicine sees significant challenges in getting into such a situation. Then it must be said that if I had perceived the amendment of the law as a first step on the way to further restricting the right to self-determined abortion, I could not have voted for it. I do not think there is any reason to interpret the legislative amendment as such. The left of the government is in that case a guarantor against this happening. That's why I'm also strongly responding to claims that what's happening here today is a parallel to Alabama and the Trump administration's United States. The main principles laid down in Norway in 1978 remain mountainous. For the time being, there is no evidence of how a woman facing such an intervention will experience the mandatory counselling on foetal reduction, which she, under the new legislation, will have to undergo. The left will follow the reactions and experiences we're going to gradually get, carefully. If the abortion law is to be amended subsequently, it must be liberal. As a health policy spokesman for my party, I would like, for example. promote an assessment of whether there are aspects of the denominator itself that should be mature for revision. In the left we recognize that we are part of a government consisting of four parties. As most of the games in this room have experience, it's in such a position to give and take. The forthcoming legal regulation for which there is a majority today was negotiated at Granavolden. The agreement entered into there is loyal to the Left. And should nothing change, I see no reason to renegotiate it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e3350	It is a historical setback that we are today dealing with a restriction of women's self-determination, 41 years after Norwegian women won their right to determine their own bodies and lives. This shows that government trumps women's rights to the Right, the Advance Party and the Left. The proposal has rightly met massive resistance in the population, and Red agrees with those who oppose this restriction of women's rights, which are the vast majority of us. The proposal also contradicts what the parties in this House have promised the people in the past. The advance party Åshild Bruun-Gundersen said in November that it was not appropriate to restrict abortion rights. Right Heidi Nordby Lunde said: ‘I am on the Right’s adopted programme, which maintains the abortion law of the day.’ Left Guri Melby said they wanted to defend women's right to abortion, and then no reason to make any restrictions on today's abortion law. Today, the same representatives and their batches must ensure a change in the law which deprives women pregnant with two or three, of self-determination. I would encourage everyone in the hall instead to stick to the promises they gave less than half a year ago, not least because if we weaken the principle of self-determination, we open up an important freedom and right to deprive women. Re-introduction of treatment before week 12, on the grounds that a woman carries more than one foetus, is contrary to the intention of the abortion law. Self-determination is based on women themselves being able to make important decisions on behalf of themselves and their families. This ability is not impaired by foetal reduction. The government therefore shows a distrust of women's ability to determine what is best for themselves and their families. When it is lawful to have abortions on two or three foetuses within the time limit for self-determination, even if they are healthy, it is difficult to justify why there should be no law against foetal reduction. There's no fundamental difference between having an abortion on a healthy fetus that's alone, and one that's with one or more others. In the world around us, we see the principle of self-determination weakening. Society moves power over women's bodies away from the woman herself and over to some others. Women are disqualified by a mistrust that they are not responsible enough to be able to decide for themselves. We've been thinking in Norway for decades that there are women who are the best people to decide about their own bodies. They know their own situation best and can best assess whether pregnancy should be terminated or not, or whether the number of foetuses should be reduced or not. That choice must ultimately be the woman's and no one's. We also know that 96 pst. all abortions in Norway are carried out before the end of the 12th week of pregnancy. This also applies in Sweden, where the limit of abortion is set at week 18. This shows that those who commit abortion often do so long before the border is established if they can and have the opportunity to do so. When the government first opens up to change the abortion law, it should be about strengthening self-determination, not weakening it. We want to extend the limit to week 18, but now, with what happens to the government's proposal, we're going in the opposite direction. However, the exposure we have seen to defend women's self-determination gives hope. We know that women have won important battles in the abortion fight before. Today comes a setback, but this fight is by no means over. There will be new rounds, and we'll win those rounds.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e3374	Foster reduction of healthy foetuses has been and is an ethically difficult matter. The issue of foetal reduction has been debated over a long period of time, and the scientific community raised the issue already in 2009, although the political debate did not start at that time. The government has now presented a proposal to amend the abortion law in order to regulate access to foetal reduction of healthy foetuses. We propose that all foetal reductions should be addressed in the subject of abortion. All applications for abortion after 12 weeks are being addressed today and most foetal reductions are being carried out after 12 weeks. It is therefore natural for them to be treated in the same way. Membership shall be required regardless of the stage of pregnancy. The government has been criticised for claiming that a comprehensive Norwegian professional community is in favour of requiring examination for all applications for foetal reduction. That's not the case. We have been very clear that it is the professional community that is doing all the foetal reductions in Norway today, which have asked for this change. We are aware that there are of course different opinions on this, but the scientific community responsible for this type of foetal reduction in Norway today agrees with this change. The government has also been criticised for the professional basis on which the legislative proposal is based, in particular the issue of when foetal reduction interventions should be carried out. The government has also chosen to listen to the professional community that will carry out these interventions, and they believe that the intervention should not be done until 12 weeks. This is a medical assessment that we don't want to overdo. Following the proposal submitted, the criteria for granting foetal reduction shall also be the same as the current criteria for granting abortion after 12 weeks. The following shall be able to grant birth control in the case of twin pregnancy if the pregnancy, childbirth or care of the child could put the woman in a difficult situation or lead to undue strain on her physical or mental health. Furthermore, the term ‘fetal reduction’ shall be eligible if there is a high risk of serious disease in the foetus. The subject of abortion shall continue to place significant emphasis on how the woman assesses her own situation. The number of foetuses in themselves shall not be able to justify foetal reduction in the case of twin pregnancy. In general, something other than the usual burden of multiple pregnancy on the health and life situation of the woman shall be required. Foetal reduction must also be acceptable if the number of foetuses leads to a risk of spontaneous abortion or early birth. In the case of three or more foetuses, the terms of the current risk assessment may be reduced to two or more foetuses. This is the situation today, but at this point the abortion students need to keep up-to-date on what is the medical risk and adjust their practices based on it. Foster reduction of healthy foetuses has been and is an ethically difficult matter. To date, the question of the rules governing foetal reduction has been resolved by interpreting the general rules of the abortion law. This means that the practice that has been in Norway since 2016 has taken place on the basis of an exemption provision, which was probably not really intended for this type of case, where one has carried out foetal reduction after 12 weeks on the basis of a derogation. Through the examination of this bill, it is now the Stortinge as legislator who discusses and addresses these fundamental issues and lays the framework for this in the future, in such a way that foetal reduction carried out after 12 weeks is treated in the same way as other abortions after the limit of self-determined abortion in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e3396	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e3401	The last time the Storting debated the issue of foetal reduction through the examination of a Document 8 proposal, the Council of State said very clearly that ‘the Stortinget in 1975 adopted a law opening up to foetal reduction in Norway’. The Councils also said: ‘I think it is a very big question whether Norway should tighten up the right to self-determined abortion, which one cannot only decide on, for example, in the case of a drug problem. through the examination of a proposal for a representative. This is also something that one had to – at least from the Right – discuss thoroughly in the party, anchored in a national meeting, if one were to have the opportunity to restrict women’s right to self-determined abortion.’ I want to ask the Council of State: how does he think the right-wing voters have perceived the process until this change in law, which restricts women's self-determined right to abortion?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e3411	The first quote used by the representative is detached from its context. As the representative is aware, in that debate, it was claimed that it was the government and the undersigned who had amended the law to open up to foetal reduction. That's wrong. It is a legal interpretation of the original law that opened up to foetal reduction in 2016, and it was in that context the sentence that the representative drew out was used – just to refute a claim that it was signed that had opened up to foetal reduction in Norway. This was also a debate before the 2017 elections. The right has had a process linked to the foundation and mandate of the party to conduct the negotiations we did on Granavolden, anchored in our central government. There is also no doubt that in the Right there have been differing views on this issue all the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e3418	It was an elegant evasive maneuver. It is nevertheless the case that the interpretation of the law establishes exactly what I read – that is what was the point. And the Council of State did not answer my second question, about what he thinks Right-wing voters think about this process. I have another question for the Council of State. He stresses that it is the doctors who have the professional responsibility for the service, who have wanted this change of law, and to whom one has listened, in contrast to the large number of other professional bodies who have opposed it. Does the Council of State consider it the doctors who are responsible for the service to define Norwegian laws and take the ethical evaluations? And how does he think it stands up to the law we have on the right of reservation for the intervention itself, which is intended to take care of the ethical concerns of the individual doctor in carrying out abortions and also foetal reduction?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e3425	I believe it is the Stortinget that should discuss, discuss and decide such questions. That is also why we have submitted the matter to Stortinget. It is also the case that doctors have wanted to answer this question over a long time – not least when the Workers' Party put in government, they did not get an answer. Jonas Gahr Støre put as a health minister for a year with this question in his drawer without answering either the doctors who wanted an answer, or the women who wanted an answer to this. What is happening today is a legal regulation of an area in which women who had asked for this when the Workers' Party put in government, and it was a healthy fetus, would have been refused by the trade union – because they had not done the job of clarifying these questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e3430	The Council of State at the time said in the Storting was: ‘The government has made no changes to policies or regulations that have led to new practices in opening up to foetal reduction. This is a purely legal interpretation carried out by the Ministry of Justice’s Legal Affairs department after health care promoted the need to clarify this issue as early as 2010.’ And then the council says his predecessors didn't do anything. No, Minister of Health Jonas Gahr Støre did not make the legal clarification that Bent Höie did, but he said several things publicly – that in doubt, women’s self-determination had to lie at the heart of it. And he had a lot of support for professional health lawyers, among others. Aslak Syse, who spoke clearly about this. How does the Council explain that there was no change in practice either before or after the interpretation of the law? What, then, is the difference between what Bent Höie did, and what Jonas Gahr Støre did?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e3440	The important difference is that as Minister of Health in the Ministry of Health and Welfare, I made sure that the health care received an answer. It is not that healthcare can relate to what a health minister may have said to the press as a legal interpretation and response to that type of formal enquiry. It would in case be a very strange practice. And it was quite obvious – to me, at least – when I became Minister of Health on the spring this was taken up, that the health service did not at least experience that they had received an answer from Minister of Health Jonas Gahr Støre on this question. I think the Labour Party should think about what words are used both about the process and, not least, about the content of this bill, given what the representative Toppe was also referring to, that the practice in this area was more stringent under the Labour Party's management of Norway, when they were put under the responsibility of the abortion law.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e3447	In the hearing we had in the committee, national treatment services for advanced invasive foetal medicine were in place. They called for a medical record of things done in the case of fetal medicine. Today we have an abortion register and a medical birth register, but it is unclear whether foetal reduction should now be reported automatically. In any case, they requested the need for an own register. The point is that you need to know more about how women and children are doing. I thought it was a good input from the professional community that treats these women. So I would like to ask the Council of State whether this is something that the Council of State will go further with, or how he sees that their needs can be resolved in a new register or by inclusion in the abortion register.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e3452	I have also noticed that recording, which I feel is important. We are now working to clarify a number of issues related to the ability of healthcare professionals to follow results for patients who have been in healthcare, and the challenges presented by current legislation in this area. We will also soon come up with proposals for adjustments in this area. With regard to the question of registers: if a person wishes to set up new or adjust existing registers, there is today a professional question where the Health Directorate sits on the decision-making authority, so that is something that professionals may have to pursue in line, professionally speaking.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e3459	Ever since this debate started, government parties have been talking about foetal reduction as a very difficult ethical matter. My question is then: if it is so difficult ethical, where the conscience is at stake, why are the representatives from the Right not free to vote on their own conscience and ethical assessment?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e3464	I think most people will agree that this is a difficult ethical matter, where there are assessments and arguments for different kinds of regulation of this area. The right-wing group has dealt with this matter in connection with their consideration of the government platform and also when they have dealt with the matter in the course of the procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e3472	I just have to keep going a little bit and ask more about it with ethical considerations. Here I have to be brief and concrete. This I ask because I really wonder: why does the Council of State think that a denominator is better able to make decisions on behalf of women than women themselves are?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e3477	This is simply for the reason that, unlike the representative, I am of the opinion that we in Norway should have regard to abortions after 12 weeks, such as today. It is simply because I believe that today's abortion law is based on that principle, and that the fetus should have an increasing self-defence in the course of pregnancy. Before 12 weeks it is my opinion that then the woman herself is going to make that kind of decision. After 12 weeks, the woman’s own assessment should also be given a very strong emphasis, but then a legal protection has been fostered by the fact that the last word is mentioned, even though a woman’s assessment is very strong. That's the graduation that's going to be. When the fetus has the ability to live independently outside of Mother’s life, there is an absolute limit to abortion in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e3482	It's a little hard to see what the government is going to achieve with this law change. So if the goal is for more people to be rejected, it will force women to bear children against their own wishes. If the goal is not for more people who ask for it to be rejected, we are left with little more than an additional round of penalties to blame and shame the pregnant woman before the procedure. What is the government's line and purpose of this legislative change – that it's okay to ask for foetal reduction if you ask the state for law first, and thus be applied more shame afterwards?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e3489	No, this is to ensure that the law is in line with what is otherwise the practice of abortions carried out after week 12, thus ensuring the same legal protection for twins and multiplers in a situation similar to that of other pregnancies. It is also to clarify the legislation in this way and anchor it in the Stortinget, so that such a significant change, in fact, in the sense of the abortion law, should not only be based on a legal interpretation in the Ministry of Justice, but should be through democratic treatment in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e3494	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e3501	First briefly, to the Council of State Höie: I commend him for asking the Law Department to come with that assessment. I should have done that too; I think I would have done that. It is otherwise that what the Law Department concluded with was exactly what I said as a health minister: the abortion law opens this up. Our position on this matter is well explained by our representatives. The Labour Party is against and is against. But I want to raise my eyes to two levels, whether what we are witnessing today – for the first time the look here in Norway. This is about something more than what we actually decide in the hall, with the majority who sign up for it. We remember Kjell Ingolf Ropstad who last autumn encouraged him to participate in a historic change in the abortion law, and so he did after Erna Solberg had invited him to enter that process. She opened up to amend §2(c) and remove the right of women to take the decision to apply for abortion after 12 weeks in the event of a serious illness. It wasn't like that, but it was historic that it happened. A law of great consolation had ended up in conflict. A law with a low level of conflict was given a high level of conflict. And I have received many letters, this week at the latest, from women who felt that a difficult choice became more difficult in the light of what was now created, namely the image that this law had come into discussion, and that the Prime Minister, against his own party's program, opened up to make a change in it. Then there's the question of raising your eyes one more level. No, we're not the United States, we're not Alabama, but flows internationally meet us. They always have. And in the U.S., abortion bans in the U.S. states are also adopted by incest and rape, with the aim of driving the case to the U.S. Supreme Court, where there can now be a majority to change the Constitution. These things hit Norway, it hits Europe; European countries are now tightening up their abortion laws. That's why it's an important question we're discussing today, because the drivers of the change we're seeing today have clearly said that this is the first step, they want to move on. Then I ask myself, is this law threatened? No, I don't think so. Do they get a majority for that? No, I don't think so. But it has reminded us that the battle of the 1970s and the result of it is not a battle once and for all. It will require preparedness and mobilisation — in substance, in respect of ethically difficult issues. But what we've seen internationally and in Norway, should be a guardian of a right we were proud of, a level of conflict that was low, which we were proud of, abortion rates that went down, a discussion about reducing unwanted pregnancy based on information, sexual education, prevention, etc., not through abortion. In fact, this fight still has to be fought, because we have these flows in our country as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e3514	In the autumn of 2017, as a newly elected representative, I was assigned to travel to New York in connection with the UN General Assembly. One of the strong impressions I left after my stay was the many feedbacks that women's rights, in particular the sexual and reproductive rights, were under pressure in a number of conservative regimes around the world. We heard this from international organisations, and we heard it from our people in the United Nations delegation. Our own people in diplomacy out there warned of a disturbing international trend. The examples we've seen from some states in the United States over the past few weeks are grotesque. Even women exposed to rape and incest shall not have access to abortion. We're not there in Norway today, but for the first time since the abortion law was introduced 40 years ago, it's now proposed a historical weakening of the woman's right to self-determination. This is an unacceptable step back in the equality struggle, and it's a terrible bad signal to send to the world community. Now, the conservative forces are going to get the wind on the mill. It is not the explanation of the right hand party and the de minimisisation of this amendment that will reach out there. The signal now sent from Norway is that women’s right to self-determined abortion is restricted for the first time in 40 years. I really didn't think when I was sitting there in the United Nations a year and a half ago, that Norway was going to get involved in the series of this gloomy statistics, and I have to ask the representatives who are present here today: do you really want to be involved? In 2016, the current Minister for Foreign Affairs Børge Brende presented Freedom, Power and Opportunities, an action plan for women's rights and equality in foreign and development policy. The introductory phrase reads as follows: ‘We will counter the setbacks to women’s rights, as we see in some countries. Norway will strengthen equality by using our political capital, our experience and knowledge and our economic instruments to promote the rights of girls and women. We want to mobilize men to promote equality. The action plan prioritises the education of girls, the political and economic participation of women, the fight against violence and the promotion of sexual and reproductive health and rights. This is essential for girls and women to have freedom, power and the ability to shape their own lives.» I wonder if Norway is now planning to change its foreign policy course – or we are still going to fight for women's freedom, power and opportunities outside, while restricting them here at home.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e3530	I think there's a need to state: women are seagoing able to make ethically difficult choices in terms of their own bodies. It sounds like the majority in this room don't think so, when they vote today to restrict women's right of self-determination to abortion in matters of foetal reduction. The proposal today violates the basic principle of the abortion law, namely the right of women to self-determination. There is a clear restriction on the current right to self-determination, to self-determined abortion. I have heard many say that they are amazed that they have to take this fight again – I was in the 1970s – and I am unfortunately not amazed at it, because I see what is happening in the world around me. I also see what parties here in Stortinget mean. The change that is being adopted today means that more women have to meet by name. The decision shall lie with the members of the denominators. In practice, the law states that the ability of the learners to make good choices for a seafarer and the family is better than the ability of the family. It also provides different groups of women with unequal protection under the abortion law, and it may increase prejudice against women who want to reduce their unborn child. Several have said that, and I repeat it: the counting system is out of date. There are no ethical grey areas or the need for medical or ethical clarifications that lie behind the matter today. It's a purely political power game, where women's rights were put on the table as an bait from Erna Solberg to the Christian People's Party to maintain power. She was willing to put women's rights on the table, and she did so to a party that two weeks ago discussed changing the Constitution so that the abortion law had to be scrapped. That's what's going on. You don't even have to look at international conditions to see that there's a strong pressure here. There are no good reasons to treat foetal reduction differently from other abortions. On the contrary, the proposal states that foetal reduction may limit the risk of spontaneous abortion and early parturition. It is wrong to say that ‘you can do one, you can do two’. That's just not right. This proposal could also lead to more people having to produce children that they did not really want. It's hardly any advantage for the children either.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e3548	The question of abortion is perhaps the most difficult one in question, will be asked in the course of life. I think it is absolutely right that we have a legal framework on this issue, but at the same time it is a difficult ethical question, where the decision should belong to the one that will live the rest of her life with the choice she makes. For 40 years we have had an abortion law in Norway that has been a low level of conflict around. We compare ourselves with other countries, for example. United States, I think we're going to be very happy about that. But suddenly it became part of the government question. I have to say I am proud to have a party leader who stood upright and said: No, the Labour Party does not put this in the negotiating pot. Erna Solberg said yes to Ropstad, and the consequences are the matter we are dealing with today. During an interpellation by Elise Björnebeck-Waaagen on the Abortion Act on 5 December 2018, the Health Policy Spokesperson of the Progress Party, Åshild Bruun-Gundersen, said the following: ‘A restriction on women’s rights in the abortion law is totally out of the question for me to support here in Stortinget, but I tend to discuss extensions to today’s abortion law. If we extended the limits of self-determined abortion to week 18, we would be able to remove the denominators in most cases." A little later in the post, she also said, ‘The law is not suitable for political games. My position in this case cannot be negotiated away.’ [[...]] So now her position – and the Progress Party – has been negotiated away, the law has become part of the game of government power, and we get a historical restriction on the abortion law. In addition, we get more consideration, not less, as Bruun-Gundersen mentioned in December, and I actually realized that Carl-Erik Grimstad from the Left was in and problematized in his post here. Then I have also registered that so far it does not seem to be a single representative from the Progress Party who has signed up in this matter. It must, after all, be credited to Grimstad and the Left: at least they are in the debate. This is the other thing in the room today that shows the rift in the government. This also means that today the Stortninget takes a decision for which it is not really a majority. It's sad – and a consequence of the game of government power. Now, when we see that there are several areas where the government platform is cracking, it is also my concern that this change in the abortion law is only the first step for some government parties once the law has come into play. Then it may also come more. This is primarily a pity because it probably increases the burden on those who are in the middle of one of life's most difficult choices, and it's a development that is regrettable.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e3571	Today, the Storting shall adopt amendments to the abortion law and restrict the right of women to decide for themselves. It is tried – from the government parties – to present this as minor changes and something that concerns very few. The fact is, abortion law is restricted, so there is no doubt about it. It provides for the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party. This narrowing is the opposite of most Norwegian women. Last fall there were huge demonstration trains in a lot of cities in Norway. I was in Tromsø. The demonstrators were women of all ages, both the young people who would have their rights restricted, and the elderly who have participated in fighting for women to have power over their own bodies. The reactions of the assembled were massive against the government parties, which put the abortion principle in the pot to get the Christian People's Party on their side. It has been demonstrated today as well, and the message is simple: Norwegian women do not accept what the government and government parties are doing today. Today's case is a sad day for women's rights, and I want to believe that the women in the room who vote for the amendment of the abortion law must know a vandal of the partisan. When principles are sacrificed on the altar to retain power, it appears both unprincipled and tragic. The law of abortion and self-determination for women had not been won once and for all, but I believe that most people had never believed that a majority government would push through such a restriction. We see international trends where women's rights are removed, inculcated and made illegal in many countries. But that Norway, where we've been proud of our gender equality practices, should get involved in this international trend, I think many people couldn't imagine just a year ago. The backstop attached to maintaining the government force makes the matter even more intense, and it appears to be part of a political game. Most women in Norway could hardly expect the abortion law to be tightened up under a female prime minister. If there is something we Workers Party women can guarantee, it is that this would never have happened during Gro Harlem Brundtland's reign, and it could never have happened if Jonas Gahr Støre was Prime Minister. The right victim of the abortion law, and the Right women have accepted it. The same applies to women from the Progress Party and the Left. I record, just like the representative of Morland, that no one from the Progress Party has signed up on the list of speakers. The rest of the government parties have drawn quite minimally – it is not exactly close in the line from the government parties to defend this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e3582	Last summer I was outside the Stortinget, as very many other times before, but that time I was there to celebrate the 40th anniversary of the Abortion Act together with many women from all walks of life and with different backgrounds. During the celebration it was the post and the appeal of a Norwegian Somali midwife named Asha Barre, who made the most impression on me. She told both about her international work and from a health centre in Oslo, about how many women do not have full rights over their own bodies – including in Norway. For Asha Barre, women in Norway meet men who want to have more children than women themselves, and these women dare not ask the decision on contraceptives of fear of rumors. Barre works perfectly with public education in the fight for women's freedom and self-determination. It is not that this bill we are discussing today is going to prevent Barre from doing its job, but this proposal – and the way we are today reducing women's right to self-determination – sends strong signals. Every day brave women, like Barre, stand up to religious dark men who want to restrict women's rights. Her work is not only done at the local health centre. Barre is involved in a global movement, where she and many people share knowledge and change attitudes. The Barre movement is part of, conflicts globally with a growing antiabortion movement. It is this movement that the government today – without disintegration in the population – gives a victory by restricting women’s self-determination. A horse-trafficking about political power. Asha Barre told about how she discovered and was inspired by people, Elise Ottesen-Jensen, who did pioneering in the struggle for women's right to control their own bodies. We're still working on realising Elise Ottesen-Jensen's dream of that day all children who are put into the world are wanted, where all men and women are equal, and where sexuality is an expression of love, pleasure and tenderness. Today's law change is a counterwork of Elise Ottesen-Jensen's dream. I am sorry that we are today sending a strong signal that we are not on the side of women's struggle for freedom, self-determination and right to rule over their own bodies.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e3590	‘I find it ethical and morally reprehensible to use women’s right to abortion as a caste ball in the government game KRF has started.’ That's well said, but that's not my word. It was the health policy figure of the Progress Party Åshild Bruun-Gundersen who said this to the NRK on 20 October last year. Today we are dealing with an attitude from the Health Committee where the same representative goes in to restrict women's right to decide about their own bodies. On 5 December last year, the Stortinget discussed the abortion law. That evening, the representative Sivert Bjørnstad said that the only thing he could support was an extension of the abortion law. I guess there's a lot of reason to think that the same representative tonight is going to do the wrong thing, that's to vote for a tightening of the abortion law. On 20 October last year, Abid Raja said to the NRK: «I am closing the door on behalf of the Left [[...]] There is a lot of evidence that the representative Raja is not so good at closing doors – and tonight votes to restrict the abortion law. The right went to the election to maintain today's abortion law. Tonight, they sacrifice women's rights in a game to cling to government agencies. After many years of popular choice, I know that politics is about giving and taking. It's about negotiating and compromising. But one place the limit has to go. That is why I was very proud to be a member of the Workers' Party when Jonas Gahr Støre put his foot down and said that for the Workers' Party it is not appropriate to replace women's rights against power. The highest statement of trust you can get here in the country, I think, is to represent the people in this room. It is a responsibility that needs to be managed wisely, and it is quite obvious that today there are many in this room who are going to break election vows, break repeated guarantees and fail their own conscience. Several have referred to advice from different medical teams. I'd like to finish by referring to one of my favorite doctors. This song goes out to the Right, the Advance Party and the Left: «Think souls and men had to stand for what you said. do not twist away do not look like do not pretend to be you I didn't mean what you said. do not say as others You must think soul» It's my heartfelt prayer to all of you that I know really agree with me.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e3628	This case is not about women's right to self-determined abortion until week 12 of Norwegian legislation. This case concerns 12 healthy twin fetuses that were removed in 2017 in week 13, without health grounds from mother and without treatment. The fact that the Ministry of Justice claimed that extending access to abortion on healthy twin fetuses from week 12 to week 13 is not an extension of the abortion law is absolutely incredible. They gave a regulation contrary to the wording of the abortion law that discriminates against twin fetuses. Why should women who want to have children have abortions one at the risk of harming the other? When I talk to acquaintances who have twins, and ask them what they mean, they say, "I don't have words, it's terrible. It says twins, twin parents, grandparents, and many others. Now future mothers in Norway can eliminate one embryo while waiting in love for the other. Up to 10 pst. of the cases, the foetus also goes wrong, which must remain, and in any case must be in conjunction with the dead twin until the end of pregnancy. Twinning away is an extension of the abortion law. It is discriminatory against twins, unethical – and it is nauseating. Does mother and father then intend to keep the abortion hidden from the wanted child for the rest of his life? It would be close to the child being spared, to think, it could have been me that was dead. Such a wish child will always be a reminder of what is gone. How can the Ministry of Justice, through a regulation – contrary to the wording of the law and with reference to medical practice – take on such an authority, which is, in fact, owned by the Storting, namely the legislative authority? There are courts to interpret, it is not the Ministry of Justice's law department, and it is not at all contrary to the wording of the law – only then in rare cases. Yes, the Workers' Party can rosy and stick needles in the heart of one fresh twin in week 13, and they can call it legal, but it will never be ethically correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e3641	Representatives of the government say that this is a difficult matter. Yes, it should only be lacking when you sacrifice women's rights in this way. It is a betrayal of the gender equality struggle that has taken place in Norway. So the case rapporteur, who represents the Christian People's Party, says we're not working in a vacuum. Well, that's exactly what the government has done. These proposals do not want the Norwegian people. That is the reality. This is something that engages, and it makes a strong impression on one when one of the demonstration trains against the government's bill meets the retired teacher Ingrid Ross Solberg, who brought Helene's granddaughter, who says: Who would have thought that in 2019 – in the free, democratic and most equal country in the world, Norway – we must once again take the fights that we took in the 1970s? It makes the impression that when a student meets at Kongsberg high school, they say, "Why in the world will you at Stortinget change the abortion law?" That's something we hear about being done in other countries we don't want to compare with. No, the Norwegian people do not want government policy, and it is also clear that many of the government's own members do not want government policy. This is a historic day, yes, but there is no historical day to be proud of. It's a historic day that tells us that some victims of women's rights to drive black cars, while some people said that we never, never sacrifice women's rights and the proud story we have in Norway for the equality struggle, because this case is also about a value struggle.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e3650	Until Erna Solberg and her government took over, abortion was for years very little in the social debate. Most of us thought that self-determined abortion, which was fought in the 1970s, was a matter of course, a guarantee of women's rights that stood for the future. So we could take it wrong. Even though the Right went to the election to keep today's abortion law, they let the head of government deal with women's rights to secure their own power position. Is it easier for the Right to negotiate women's rights than for men? It might seem like that. The abortion law applies to all who value women's rights and a more equal society. 40 years ago, many people stood on the barricades to legislate for the right to self-determination in Norway, including women from the Right. Where are the Right Women's defenses today? This is a historically bad day in Stortinget for several reasons. For the first time since the introduction of the abortion law, a weakening of women’s rights is proposed. A number of representatives vote for a change that they really don't want, while a small minority gets their case through. So the government's majority takes the equality back, just as the right forces have done in countries by country. At the Labour Party national meeting in 1969, young Grethe Irvoll received a massive majority for a bench proposal to program self-determined abortion. Tonight, I would like to remind the assembly why she promoted that proposal. It was because Irvoll had spoken in advance to very many women who had known the abortion fight on the body, and I quote what she remembers: ‘Some people had been named and treated as such. Some had been with ‘wise wives’, others had been with doctors. But that was one bad story after another." The proposed amendment means that women who are already in a difficult situation must explain themselves before two doctors who will then make the decision for them. There is no one who is too abortion in itself, but the Workers' Party is fortunately faced with the fact that the assessment of something as serious as ending a pregnancy must lie with the woman who knows the situation of the body. We don't swap women's rights against power.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e3668	I first want to comment on Mr. Gahr Støre's post: I take a complete distance from what's happening in Alabama and in other states in the United States, completely remote, but I also take a distance from those who are trying to place the matter we're now discussing, into such an Alabama context. It doesn't belong anywhere, I mean. I learn that the opposition raises fundamental questions about abortion and women's right to self-determination. It is understandable when such a matter is debated, and I will acknowledge the importance of this debate – we are not finished talking. The rights of women, the right to life, the right to protection and the value of man in all phases of life are too important for that. So I believe that the matter of foetal reduction is ethically demanding, and I would like to stress that the Christian People's Party is very concerned about how the woman is cared for through the process. The working party and SV believe that meeting in the hall is demanding and burdensome for the woman. I want to say it so strongly that if there is only one woman who has experienced that her integrity was violated in a name, then there is one woman too much. If the quality of the denominator's work is a problem, then let's get to it. A note shall focus significantly on the woman’s assessment of her own situation and be a room for ethical reflection, in which both medical and human aspects are taken care of, and ethical reflection cannot take place in a vacuum. In addition, many hospitals have an offer for a conversation with the social partners, both in advance and after the meeting with the member. In conclusion, I just want to introduce the Amathea organization, which has a social mission to reduce individual and social burdens when a pregnancy is experiencing challenges. Amathea is a nationwide and specialised low-threshold healthcare service, complementing the public health system with its top competence for guidance and prevention in pregnancy and abortion. I think it is important to raise those who assist, especially women, who have been and are in an incredibly difficult situation, in a debate like this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e3689	This debate has not occurred in a vacuum. When the representative Geir Jørgen Bekkevold responds to the fact that Alabama is being pulled forward, I have to say that it is particularly important that he does not see what driving forces are behind, that it is the same driving forces that are responsible for tightening up the abortion law in Norway and that are now cheering for the government's proposals, and that also have too much in common with Alabama. Then the representative Geir Jørgen Bekkewold can stand for his opinions, but that there are forces out there that want a tightening of the abortion law welcome, we are so much aware of that after the autumn debate. The result of Erna Solberg throwing the abortion law into a game of government power lies ahead of us here today. Erna continued as Prime Minister, but the price has to be paid by women who need the abortion law. No, there aren't so many women, but it doesn't do anything right anymore. The representative Grimstad said that this is essentially symbolic, but I don't think the women who need this law experience it symbolically. I think those women experience it as a real restriction of their rights. At the time of this law, the Minister of Health stated that this was not a tool for reducing abortions in Norway. That's where we have other tools, he said. But if the purpose is not fewer abortions, is the main purpose of putting blame and shame and renunciation into a system? What are the denominators of adding the women who are pregnant with multiples? The reality is that this is a tightening of the abortion law and a law-making of the principle of ‘clear one, and you can handle two’. It has been called upon from this speaker to act correctly in the debate, and I could not agree more, but it is no matter what position you have. It has been claimed that foetal reduction has not been legal in the past, but the fact that they are now proposing a change in the law makes the claim that it was prohibited before 2016. The law that we're changing is now the same as then. Estimates of risk are given, but the estimate of risk of 10 pst. is a compilation of background risk and procedural risk — the right shall be the right one. I believe that you can expect here to be fair from both sides, and that this is an important debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e3702	That we are introducing today a law that deprives the woman of her freedom – the freedom to determine her own life and body – makes today a sad day. Right-wing demand a knowledge-based debate. Yes, then it's just to go to the hearing answers and the resistance the proposal has met with professional environments such as the State Health Authority, the Medical Council, the Medical Association and the Earthmother's association. We must not be fooled by words like 'positive guidance'. We cannot accept that the woman herself should not make the decision. Today shows that the women's struggle must be fought every day. Those who believe freedom is something we've been given must now wake up. This year it is 50 years since the proposal for self-determined abortion saw the day's light in the kitchen of Grethe Irvoll, during a local team meeting in Ammerud Arbeiderparteilag. Thanks to those who went ahead and fought through the proposal at the National Labour Party meeting already in 1969, and to the government, which weakens women's rights and, at the same time, minimizes the steps taken today – a step that weakens the fight for women's rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e3713	If you ask the women's movement internationally, if you ask those who work with sexual and reproductive health and rights related to this in the United States, in the states of Georgia and Alabama, and if you ask those who fight against the intrusions in Poland if it started with a proposal for a total ban, and if you ask them if it started with a proposal for a so-called 'heartbeat law', you get no answer. It also knows that, for example. The representative Carl-Erik Grimstad, who I think knows the international picture quite well. They say it started with weaknesses in the principle of self-determination. It started with small and large barriers that increased the abortion threshold. In the United States, there have been 400 small and large restrictions and changes in abortion legislation in recent years. That's why they're in this situation right now. That is why this is so serious. The principle of self-determination is weakened by the government parties in this hall tonight. This is happening again on the basis of a power game in order to create a conservative and marginal and low environment in this country. That the woman determines — self-determined abortion — is one of our most important equality victories. It is a victory against shame and for the freedom from being blamed and ashamed of its own choices linked to its own body, the freedom from the shame that I think we have also seen on this pulpit, to be completely honest, at least in some speeches. The government is now the first 40-year-old to introduce a tightening of this important principle of equality. That's why someone I miss in this room today. I miss the Minister for Gender Equality – the first Minister for Gender Equality to defend this principle in 40 years' time. I also miss a whole party, a whole party that almost guaranteed that this would not happen, a whole party that is fully capable of making the government crisis about the freedom of drivers, but that allows women's freedom to be negotiated away in a power game. No, it is not women who must feel ashamed of their choices – it is this government that should feel that shame.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e3726	This is a matter that arouses strong feelings in many people. I understand that, and I have deep respect for that, because this is about unborn life and about people – people who initially want children, but who, for various reasons, still experience that they are overwhelmed when they realize that they are not waiting for just one child, but they are waiting for two or perhaps even more. For those involved, it is absolutely essential that we as a society make arrangements for the economic and practical support systems that are needed. We have to do what we can to make it as easy as possible to put twins into the world, which we in the Christian People's Party have already taken seriously, among other things. by providing extended leave for twin parents. For us in the Christian People's Party, the right to life from conception to natural death is the most fundamental. Someone sees it differently, and of course it has to be respected. But no matter what view you have of when life starts, foetal reduction of healthy multiples is ethically challenging. This case is not about self-determined abortion, because even those who are too self-determined abortion may experience that foetal reduction is ethically challenging. This is about two healthy fetuses, one of which is to be removed, with the risk of the brother's or sister's life. There is a risk associated with this intervention. This is also about the sibling who belongs together, and about the parents and perhaps those who are born, their whole life will know that the child had a brother or a sister who should have been born at the same time and should have shared the life course with them. There is also a danger of selection and sorting. Today, doctors choose which foetuses are to be aborted and who are to live. But what happens when technology gets better? A profiled woman in Norwegian business recently said: ‘As a twin mother, I have had deep respect for ties that are difficult for others to understand.’ It is a statement that twin parents and twins across the Norwegian country can easily join. We in the Christian People's Party have worked a long time for the matter we are going to adopt here today. We believe it is wrong to allow foetal reduction of one or more healthy multiples in a pregnancy before the limit of self-determined abortion. At Granavolden we were heard, and we got a pass to change the rules at this point. It was important for the Christian People's Party, and it shows in practice that we put ethics ahead of technology. I am pleased that we are finally going to adopt this important legislative proposal, which is also supported by the scientific community at St. Olav's hospital, the only professional community that is currently performing foetal reduction. Today, a law decision is taken that signals respect for life and human dignity – a decision that puts ethics ahead of technology.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e3752	June 13, 2019 is a historic day. Today, 13 June 2019, the right forces in Norway became clearer. The government's proposal is not well-founded. And no matter how neatly wrapping papers try to put around this provision, it's only a result of our Prime Minister putting women's rights on a negotiating table – against forces in his own party, against his own party program, against strong forces in two of the government comrades and against the many women who have spoken in the media, on blogs, in demonstrations and in letters to all of us. It is a political game that is unethical, irresponsible and does not belong in our modern age. I'm glad that our party and our party leader stood straight in this value struggle. For 40 years Norwegian women have managed this in a wise, ethically good and sound way. This is why Norway has among the lowest abortion rates in Europe and the world. The confidence that women are self-thinking beings who take over all these moral, ethical and challenging questions and make a wise decision, is at stake today. What we see is nothing but that someone thinks that women are unable to make these difficult decisions. There is nothing but that there are others who are going to decide about the consequences of women's actions and about women's lives. The wrapping paper reads: Women shall not suffer. Women must be treated with respect. One shall ensure that it is optimal for women. – No, it's a wrapping paper that cracks. The best thing for women is to be able to make these difficult decisions yourself, as women in Norway have managed this with cleverness, wisdom and good ethics for 40 years. This is terrible – I have to be allowed to say that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e3766	Let's stay a little bit on the realities of multiple abortion and late abortion. Firstly, a woman should still be able to submit an application for abortion herself. As long as this occurs before the 12th week and applies to the desire for a complete abortion, it does not need to justify the option, nor is there any requirement for reference time. The woman also does not need a referral from her supervisor, but can contact a hospital that has a gynecological ward. This applies both to single and multiple pregnancies. Secondly, women shall be guaranteed the right to good guidance and follow-up. An essential support is provided by a permanent, healthcare or other medical staff providing guidance. When a woman needs someone to talk to, both before and after the decision is taken, the professional help must be readily available. Thirdly, all applications for abortion after week 12 must also be considered today. A denominator today consists of a gynecologist and a doctor. Luckily, enough'supervisory of high morals' is a'sage only'. Female searches, and it chooses whether the decision-making process should be done in writing, at meetings or through Skype. Our 1975 abortion promise does not say anything about foetal reduction, of course, since removing one of several fetuses when it did not happen at the same time as pregnancy could continue. In 2009, the issue was highlighted, and the ethically difficult matter remained up until the fall of 2013. In 2016, the conclusion was reached by the Ministry of Justice. The existing abortion lobe opened for the reduction of healthy foetuses. The right of woman to self-destination by week 12 also includes the right to decide how many children she wants to bear. This meant that women who wanted to reduce their unborn child and decided this before week 12, usually even if the intervention itself had to be carried out after week 12. All applications for abortion after week 12 are now under consideration, in accordance with the 1975 law.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e3781	We are many women who will stand on the barricades to defend the right to self-determined abortion if that right is challenged. We are many women who know personally how important that right has been and is. International developments in which several countries and countries prohibit and criminalise all possibilities of abortion are frightening. That means we have to go to battle. That is exactly why I am responding to the comparisons that several representatives have made in this debate, trying to draw quite extreme parallels instead of taking this discussion. We as elected representatives should be honest and admit that there is no right to self-determined abortion that is threatened here. The proposal on the table today does not equate the legislation in Norway with Argentina and states in the United States, but with liberal countries with which we otherwise compare. This is a clarification that the trade union community has requested. There is a narrowing in a practice that has been considered legal for two years. Few women and equally treat foetal reduction with other abortions applied for after week 12, with high emphasis on the woman’s own assessment. When I hear the Workers' Party and SV in this debate, I am left with a question: Where were they in 2001, 2002, 2003 or all the other years before the issue of foetal reduction was resolved by the Law Department in 2016? The truth is that there are no politicians in this room who have decided to allow foetal reduction. We politicians let lawyers and technology make the decision for us, and that's also a choice. I am unfortunately convinced that if the Law Department had concluded differently in 2016, the Labour Party tone would have been different today. The abortion law is a very demanding balance between the self-determination of women and the right of the foetus to life. If the Workers' Party's representatives had thought that the woman's self-determination should be unlimited, and that the abortion subjects are really as bad as they are in this debate, I would think that the Workers' Party would not be in favour of a restriction, for a limit at week 12, but they are. After week 12, there is a broad societal consensus that there are other moral issues in games than only the woman's right to decide. Such difficult moral issues also apply to foetal reduction, which is carried out in the vast majority of cases between weeks 12 and 18. For me, there are three things that are absolutely crucial: it's that abortion subjects place great emphasis on the woman's situation, that the woman gets a good and safe follow-up, and that the right to self-determined abortion is established, and it does.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e3796	It's almost 20 years since I joined my first March 8 train. Every year since, we've gone under the slogans of defending the abortion law. We've been yelling at the slogan "Old Women and Bad Memories", "Get away, get away, get away from the abortion law." But I must honestly admit that I never really thought that the abortion law was threatened, that in Norway it would never happen, and that it was more a victory slogan for the games that Gro Harlem Brundtland, Grethe Irvoll, Aud Svindal and the other brave women fought when they won the battles in the 1960s and 1970s. We have said it in gratitude for the reality in which we all live. So you could take it wrong. Once again, we have seen that no victory in equality policy has been won forever. In 2013, Erna Solberg, Bent Höie and Siv Jensen wanted to introduce reservation rights for doctors. The rights of conservative doctors would be beyond the rights of young women in a difficult situation. It led to the biggest gender equality demonstrations of 40 years, and a whole people stood up to say no. It was not thought that abortion rights would be a victim of a political game in order for Erna Solberg to be Prime Minister. The protests became so big that you won. Once again, the people won the will, and the proposal was abandoned. It was then to be believed that the Left, Right and Advance Party had learned. But when forces in the Christian People's Party would put an end to right-wing populism and opened to see the other way, the desperation reached the Right House. Erna Solberg was willing to put the whole abortion law on the negotiating table to keep his own position. The result is today. Tonight we get the first tightening of the abortion law since the abortion law was introduced over 40 years ago. It must be very bad for a handful of women who believe the bulk of the population are the ones who carry the sorting society on their shoulders. It's scary for all of us. For Norway is not the United States. Norway is not Argentina. But the trend is the same, because right parties tighten the grip around the abortion law to keep their own positions. We've seen it in the United States, and we've seen it in other countries in Europe. Then it's pretty cowardly, when we make this historic change, that it's hardly politicians from the government parties who meet. Where is the Minister for Gender Equality? Where is the Progress Party when we discuss this big issue, and there are hardly any arguments to hear from the parties, except that they say that the changes are small. They say that now it stops, and there will be no further changes. Well, I don't trust it. Six months ago, they said the exact same thing. Some say the abortion question is difficult. For every woman, it's a difficult situation to be in, but for us politicians, it should be very simple: women should decide over their own bodies.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e3809	My life. My choice. My freedom. My body. My case. - Mine, President, mine!
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e3814	First, the abortion law, as it is now, allows for foetal reduction. That's why what's happening now is a restriction, and it's a restriction on women's maritime regulation. I hear that there are several representatives in this room who allow themselves to discuss the deep personal and private choices of a few families, and who judge these families and use them in a political game to maintain power. I understand why the representative Bruun-Gundersen of the Advancement Party is not present, and I think she had been horrified at the intervention of her alternate. This shows the differences against those batches that believe that women are actually able to carry out ethical reflection selves. Yes, someone might want to consult with, but you don't need a denominator to decide that. Therefore, the time of the denominators should be over and not be extended, as one does now. In addition, conflicting guidance is now given on how to treat foetal-reduction cases, and it is difficult to see how these should be combined. Among other things, it is stated that the carrying of twins cannot be regarded as an unreasonable burden. Of course, it can be an unreasonable burden for someone. It could be that you can't do two or three, and then you have to have an abortion for everyone. And in those cases where the denominators are going to allow abortion, they're going to put a lot of emphasis on how the woman's seas judge the situation. How is it to be considered as having more than one foetus not an unreasonable burden? What should the name do then? I really hope then that the denominators that now determine this are better than what they were before. There are many people who have said that it is now almost advice. I hope so. But that there's an extreme strain in any case, is raised above any doubt, and women who are pregnant, whether it's with one, two, three or four fetuses, are able to make these assessments seagoing. It's an international context we have to see this in, and also in the context that the Christian People's Party 14 days ago wanted to legislate what they call the right to... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e3825	...life.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e3830	I miss the president in the debate – it was okay that she too ‘looked’ at her. For the debate: The strategy of the majority is clearly still to be covered by a political horse trade with so-called professional arguments – from the very few representatives of the government parties involved in this debate. But here comes statements that don't hold water, that have to be refuted. First, the amendment explicitly states that foetal numbers reductions should be included even if they can be done before. It's an explicit introduction of the denominator of abortions even before week 12. It's completely new. And so: Given the risk of remaining fetuses, the professionals at St. Olavs calculate 5-10 pst. the risk to those remaining. But they specify that here they mix background risks, that is, the general risk of all multiple pregnancies, and procedural risks. It's highly uncertain, and that's what the professionals themselves say. Congestive violence referred to a Dutch study to calculate the risk to the remaining foetus by foetal reduction. This study — of 118 foetal reductions, all of which were very ill foetuses and the procedure was carried out late in pregnancy — is not relevant to provide coverage for neither the treatment of the name nor the risk of surviving foetuses after week 13 intervention. We can have different opinions in this room, and we do, but we can't accept alternative facts. To all those who have been supported by the drawing of comparisons with other countries’ debates: this is exactly what is happening here in Norway as well – it is facts that do not keep water, defended for a political horse trade. After today's amendment of the law, more women have to ask for permission for an ethical, thorough assessment they have already taken. It's the Workers' Party against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e3845	There has been an interesting day at Stortinget today, but also a very thought-provoking day. For the essence is that we have full greatness today because right-leader Erna Solberg is willing to deal with heavy and basically important questions in a random way, in order to secure his own position and sit on his own power. It has created a great commitment to the population. Even I was one of those who along with very many were out here in front of the Storting before Christmas, when Erna Solberg started the game to secure his own position. There I was with mothers, with fathers, with young people and with grandparents. I think one reason why there was so much commitment and so wide a pool was that many in Norway felt that now there was something completely new that was at stake, that all of a sudden equality and women's rights were set aside to gain power. I think there was also a common force in all those who met – under the slogan ‘Don’t touch the abortion law!’ – that it is also a very nice thing in Norway that together, over time, we have built understanding of a wise law that works and that ensures that women have rights and that we fence about equality in our country. These are just values and principles, and therefore I find it strange when, in this case too – as in that case earlier today, which was also a serious principle, which is about the economic future of people – representatives of the government parties come up to the pulpit and say that this is really me as a representative and my party disagree with, but I am voting for it anyway. When it starts to become a pattern of that kind of thing, we have to start asking questions: how is the Right-leader Erna Solberg really working? How is this country now governed? I'm absolutely sure that in the time we get into, with pretty tough social debates, there's one thing we really need to be burdened with in Norway: it's equality. That's why it's so great to see the total commitment that has been to this matter on a popular level, and we from the Workers' Party are proud to represent today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e3856	I agree with those who have said in this debate that it should be conducted with a low voice, for there is no doubt that this is a difficult ethical and moral matter, which requires precisely the debate to be conducted with a low voice. Therefore, it becomes so very serious that this matter, which has such a character, is being dealt with here in the Storting tonight as the result of a deliberate political action. Those who vote in favour of the government's proposal should think through, because that's what happened. Many have already said so, but no one will deny that this case would not have been dealt with if it had not been necessary to establish a government in Norway. That is the responsibility of the Right, that of the Progress Party, and that of the Left. I want to say – and I ask to be believed in it – that I have a great deal of respect for the Council of State Höie as a specialist councillor. I don't think he'll try to deny it. But what he's doing in this case is forced, of course, and I'm almost sure it's with the pen, as I know him. Rarely have we seen that a government council must put aside an almost collective professional environment, overlook it and construct a line of argument to get around the fact that he does not have that support in his own professional environments, and to get away from everything he has said before, and as Right has said before, to cover the fact that he is the messenger for Erna Solberg's need to continue as Prime Minister. It must be very tiring political for him, but also for the large number as it draws. Finally, just this: it is not just that the Progress Party does not take the floor, but they are not here, they have not been there all night. That's what it says. I've been hooked on this with the Frp code, and I've said that the Frp code is doing one thing and saying something else, but I'm now getting to add: it's doing one thing, but then be completely silent.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e3865	In the course of the debate, we have heard a variety of variations that this is not really a very big thing. No, actually, this is a clean-up, it's almost a follow-up, yeah, it almost had to be just like that. Well, so that Erna Solberg joined the Christian People's Party in the decisive moment, wasn't really a big deal. It was a clean-up, actually a follow-up, yes, it almost had to be just like that – because the professionals have, after all, been the drivers of this clarification for a long time. No – the change was heavy enough, she was basically enough to still secure Erna Solberg’s government. There are some people in the Chamber, but as more representatives have also said before me, there is someone we do not have. For example, where are they? Heidi Nordby Lunde? She has a clear voice in many things and has previously also our clear involvement in abortion. Where's Ingerd Schou? She is a woman who is a prime politician and engaged in women's affairs and equality issues. I haven't seen her either. They and several right-wing ladies have been critical of other restrictions on abortion legislation, but when it comes to decision-making, they are not part of the debate. Many from the Right hope that the legacy of Erna Solberg will be that she was able to create a bourgeois government with four parties. But the legacy of Erna Solberg is that she is willing to do anything to retain power – even negotiated away what are fundamental rights, even introducing the first restrictions in abortion legislation since the 1970s. Vekk is also the Progress Party. Åshild Bruun-Gundersen has been involved, and that can be a very honest thing, so it itself can't be used against her, but it has also been gone from the public debate. The last time she was seen in this case, she said that it was not appropriate to restrict the right to self-determined abortion. No one has seen her in these discussions. It was said before we got a four-party government: have these people lost their voices? Have they seen the camel stuck in the throat? Is it true that these representatives – and others who are critical of this – do not even have their own destiny, but will still decide for other ladies? What we can learn from this is that women's rights are not safe in the hands of the Right and the Advance Party. The members of the Right Party and the Progress Party who have been here today have been more concerned about saying that we are not Argentina, that we are not Alabama, rather than explaining why this should be Norway – where women who have twin or vibration fetuses can well decide that everyone should go away, but that they should not be allowed to make less intrusive choices on their own. There, people can trust the Workers' Party. We don't fold a millimeter for Norwegian women's rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e3882	A children's bar says trolls can't count to 12. I have now learned that the Workers' Party and the representative Gahr Støre cannot count to thirteen. Because it is the case that the Norwegian law on self-determined abortion goes to twelve and not thirteen. Nevertheless, one after one of the Workers' Party's people comes up here and says this is about the abortion law, and it's about a restriction of the abortion law. But is it that now, with this proposal, it's going to end that women are going to be allowed to have abortions after week 12? It's completely wrong. It is also nice to hear the Workers' Party come up here and be really religious and serious in voice while criticizing people who are just using the freedom of expression. It is also interesting to hear them demand a level of reflection when they themselves talk about twins away on the fetus without mentioning the fetus – as if the fetus did not exist. For in week 13, the fetus has thin, sensitive skin, eyes, ears and mouth and is developing vocal cords. I think the representatives of the Labour Party can reflect on that. Otherwise, when I vote today, I am not voting for a restriction on the abortion law, as it is still repeated, as if repeating a mistake often enough, makes it a truth. No, I am voting against an extension of the abortion law, because abortion at twins in week 13 discriminates against twins, and that means an extension of the abortion law. For one has to distinguish between law and regulation – and the regulations were given in contravention of Norwegian law.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e3892	It has been said from this speaker that this debate must be knowledge-based. I agree. It was the representative of Toril Eidsheim from the Right who was in on it. But the whole debate began with the Prime Minister's desire for a majority government, and therefore opened up to negotiate women's right to rule over their own bodies. Then I think the representative should first and foremost address this with Erna Solberg – that this is not how to start a so-called difficult debate. The representatives of the Right can then acknowledge that the majority of the hearing bodies were in fact opposed to the proposal – if you want a knowledge-based debate. Then the representative Bekkewold distanced us from talking about this matter in a global perspective. Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde too was in on it. They clearly find it unpleasant to hear about the global context. So do I. It's uncomfortable. It's uncomfortable to think about it. It's uncomfortable to talk about it. It might be uncomfortable for government parties to see themselves in the mirror. If there's something you really should distance yourself from, the conservative forces that will restrict women's right to control their own bodies. It is not the opposition's rhetoric that is the problem, or that creates discomfort – it is the government's policy. Some things should not be carried out. Lifting it up to political debate also in a global perspective is a necessity. It is necessary for democracy, for women in Norway and for women's struggles globally. The right-hand side, and especially the Christian People's Party, sees this matter as a form of ethical and intellectual practice for itself, but that's not what this case is about. Both pregnancy and abortion are happening with and in the body. It's not an abstract exercise. That's concrete. Abortion is something purely physical and mental. And what's happening here today is a real restriction of the right to decide over your own body. The right-hand side gives the impression that we women take this easy. We don't. These are difficult choices, both physically and mentally – and yes, ethically too. But the difference between us and the government parties is that we think it's the woman who can best make these tough decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e3903	It has been interesting to sit and listen to the debate. The case rapporteur, Geir Jørgen Bekkewold, suggested that there should be a debate on the amendment of the abortion law. Then it has gradually evolved into a debate on government negotiations. It's very bad, considering that the abortion law has actually been in stone since 1978. Given the developments in technology and medical knowledge since then, we need a knowledge-based debate on these things. I would particularly like to commend the representative, Mr Kjerkol, for having held a very factual and good debate. She sticks to the facts in the matter. She disagrees with the Christian People's Party, but it is up to such opponents to deal with. On the other hand, I'm put out, and really very sorry, when representatives say that we representing the Christian People's Party are not going to be able to negotiate with other parties on one of the issues that too many of my constituents might be the most important. They expect, like the voters of other parties, that we who are elected to the Storing for them also represent them in matters that are important to them. When we were in a difficult situation in winter, in a road pick that was to be taken, it was natural for many of us to bring that question into the discussions that took place internally in the Christian People's Party. To us it was natural, because we're going to represent our voters – even in such a situation. So when a representative of the Workers' Party stands on the pulpit and says that one place has to go, I actually see it as a statement that as a representative of the Christian People's Party, I do not actually have a legitimate right to represent my constituents in one of the most important questions for us. Among my voters there are also very many driving capable, beautiful women. I have to say that I am reacting in part quite strongly when some representatives from this pulpit speak as if they represent all women in Norway, and have a monopoly on what women think. Women believe very many different things in Norway. Among my constituents are women who ask me to present the principle that unborn children also have human dignity. I'll do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e3916	I've waited a little while before drawing myself on the list of speakers, to get to the government parties, but there was no reason to wait any longer, because of course they're not coming, especially not the Progress Party. It's actually a good answer to how this case is, and why we're there, and is really a confirmation of what's happened. We get hope and faith that they are not whipped in place – or away from the hall – as one has done when it comes to voting. We can still have a little hope that there might be a crisis meeting or a group meeting going on in the Progress Party. At least let's hope that they haven't been wrong about the summer party day and went to town. As we can see, the remarks from the government parties begin by referring to the Granavolden platform. I guess that's not for no reason. There is a way to buy yourself a little free of charge as to why they believe what they think. It was a compromise that country. The left has been honest, they've been standing on this pulpit tonight and saying that they admit that it has been successful in giving and taking. The vision of the Christian People's Party is also known, but there are two other parties that have to endure heavily tonight, and it is the Right Party and the Advance Party, who will sacrifice a system that has been fought and that has remained for over 40 years. They have chosen to put power in front of women. That's what they've done. I am very happy to belong to a party and to have a party leader like Jonas Gahr Støre, who has chosen not to do so. This is, as many have said, a historical weakening of women's right to self-determination. To the representative Lossius-Skeie: neither the Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party nor any other party shall decide. What we're talking about tonight is whether it's women themselves who'll be allowed to decide it. To the Council of State Höie: I understand that this is not that simple. You're trying to show that these topics are for women's assessments. You said it quite clearly: the students are going to base the judgements of the women. But it's not that simple. You may wish it – and I sincerely believe that you want and mean it – but if we read Section 2(a), there is nothing there about women's wishes and rights that should be taken into account when making their judgements. They shall take entirely different considerations from those of women. You might want to believe it, but unfortunately, as an alternate today, I get to be involved in the treatment of two things that should have a different outcome. We discussed fur animals earlier today, and now something more serious is at stake. It's still possible to change our mind.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e3929	The President would remind you that when you refer to government councils, it is not you. They say ‘State Council’ or ‘Minister’.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e3934	When, in the Nordic Council, we discussed the UN's sustainability objectives and which of the objectives we thought were most related to the Nordic and gave us the most identity, we concluded with goal no. 5, equality. We thought that equality is what makes us the most competitive, that creates one of the most inclusive and attractive societies in the world, and that makes us constantly score the highest on various international measurements. One of the most important equality measures is the right of women to decide about their own bodies, their own lives and the abortion law. The Nordic countries were early off to introduce the right to self-determined abortion, but with one exception: the Faeroe Islands. It was quite surprising, so we've been helping the Faeroe Islands in the discussion and showing them to the other countries, what it has done, and what it has resulted in. Then it's a little strange that in the middle of this, Norway is the country that's taking part in weakening the abortion law. There are no women who want to have abortions. It's a physical as well as mental impact. It's an unusually difficult choice to make. Therefore, guidance is good, but when advice is linked to the same body that helps to determine your destiny, it does not work in the same way. Meeting in the name contributes to pooring, because you know that you have to do it to achieve what you think is best for you, your family and your loved ones. It creates inequality because someone can travel to other countries to commit abortion. It also creates inequality because someone is better at formulating than others. The signal we're sending today is that Norway is part of an international trend where self-determined abortion and women's rights are put into play. It's a setback for equality. I also wonder, since the Right usually promises freedom of choice, why this should not apply to vulnerable women. It's a little special that today we have a majority that devalues women's ability to make wise choices for themselves and their families.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e3945	Throughout our history, Norway has climbed the statistics of the world's most equal countries. We've been a country that's become more and more equal for every single year that's gone. We've been a country where women have gained more and more freedom. But for the first time in history, we now see Norway going down on the statistics of the world's most equal countries. That's because right-wing policy works. We've had a government for six years that's put equality in reverse. The whole thing is being top-notch today by adopting historical limitations in the abortion law. We see a scary development in the countries around us. We see anti-feminist, racist and anti-LHBT forces winning terrain ashore around us. Abortion is prohibited. Minorities and women's rights are restricted and criminalised. In this situation, Norway should have been a lighthouse, we should have been crystal clear and unwavering for equality and women's self-determination. But no, what we are adopting today is that we are also going in the wrong direction here in Norway. Yes, today's government exists alone because our female prime minister and the female party leader Trine Skei Grande chose to sacrifice Norwegian women for their own power. Representatives of the government parties – those who choose to participate here today – are trying to tell us that this is not really so important, that we have misunderstood, and that those who are furious and demonstrate in the lawn today are wrong. It's actually the government's method every time people have had enough of the right-wing policy – people have misunderstood. We all remember the Prime Minister at Dagsrevyen on March 8, 2014, when the 8th March train of the time was mobilized because of the booking case. What did the Prime Minister say? Well, she couldn't understand that this had become such a big deal. The debate here today and the decisions to be taken here today show why it was such a big deal, why people were cursed. There are some people who are not participating in the debate here today, and it clearly shows that the government knows what it is doing, that we have a government that, knowingly and willfully, is determined to put equality in reverses, and that tops the whole thing by depriving women of the right to decide over their own bodies today. No, Erna Solberg, Norwegian women and men do not protest because they are wrong. They protest because they've had enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e3958	Women's rights have come gradually, and they can be demolished gradually, as it seems that the majority here today wants. With so many rewrites and excuses just this right-wing government can come on, our rights can be weakened. With promises and great words, our rights can be weakened. So gradually and so carefully that we almost don't notice it, our rights can be removed. But we don't let ourselves be silenced by excuses and rewritings, we don't agree that women's right is being demolished, no matter how many promises power and right-wing government come with. Gradually our rights were built, gradually the right-wing government has begun to tear them down. The Labour Party will never narrow women's rights, and we say a clear, straight and proud refusal to weaken the abortion law.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e3971	If this wasn't a restriction on the abortion law, we wouldn't be here. It is just to read the introduction to this matter: ‘It follows from the Granavolden platform that the government will: [[...]] ‘Remove the opening for abortion of one or more healthy pup(s) in a pregnancy prior to the limit of self-determined abortion.’» [[fetal reduction]] The representative Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde said that if this had been a restriction, she would stand on the barricades. Well, the barricades call, Tybring-Gjedde, it's just getting up! I want to commend the representative, Reten, for an honest and good speech. The Christian People's Party follows up its policies, and they've got their way. The criticism goes to the Right, Left and Advance Party, which minimizes this change in law, and which has not backed enough to say it straight out: self-determined foetal reduction has been negotiated away. I want to be a little personal as well. I'm a twin mother myself, which is a far greater stress than a pregnancy with one child – mental, physical and economic. The Ministry assesses, and the Council of State also pointed out in its statement, that twin pregnancy, twin birth and care for twins themselves cannot be considered to lead to an unreasonable burden on the physical and mental health of the woman. Something more will be required. But it's the number that makes both the mental, the physical and the economic burden increase. If that's not enough, what's going on? Many have developed twin families and twin mothers in their posts. For me it was right to carry out both, but I will stand on the barricades for the ladies who know they can't do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e3989	The representative, Toril Eidsheim, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e3994	The criteria for granting foetal reduction are the same as today's criterion for granting abortion after week 12. There's been a lot of negative talk about mentioning in the hall today. The Labour Party itself voted down an extension of self-determined abortion to week 18. So the working party agrees that post-week 12 intervention should be considered. If we raise our eyes, as the representative Jonas Gahr Støre urged, we will see that the Norwegian abortion law is still strong. The law is still a compromise that balances the right of women to decide for themselves and the legal protection of the fetus.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e4000	I think it's natural that in such a debate, what happens internationally, in other countries, is very alarming. I want to say from the Center Party that we're taking a lot of distance from that, and we're behind today's abortion permit. We have in our program that we don't want to allow foetal reduction of healthy fetuses. Otherwise, we're behind today's abortion permit. What one decides today, in many ways, is that Norway is – at least today – the only country in Europe to introduce a national provision for the reduction of foetuses in public health services. Before 2016, this was not an established practice. From 2016 to 2018, this was defined by the Law Department to be within the law, but the point is that medical practice was contrary to this law. Abortion laws say that women should take the final decision when the abortion is carried out before the 12th week of pregnancy, but all foetal reductions are carried out after week 12, and legate themselves think it is unfortunate that they are forced to systematically practice the right to self-determined foetal reduction based on an exception rule. That's what it's important to me that a now actually cleans up. Several representatives point out that a name is not better able to evaluate the situation of women than women themselves. It seemed to me to be a legitimate argument, but then a counter-treatment argument in itself – and less against foetal reduction. It's a big political plurality to continue the denominator and today's abortion law. In this setting, only SV is allowed to change this setting and the limit on self-determined abortions set to week 16. The representative of Kjerkol has a problem with the risk of abortion of between 5 and 10 p.m., but I think we need to take into account the experience of the national treatment service in Norway. The size cannot determine the risk of foetal reduction, we must take note of that. It may be that this risk is going to go down with the years, but that's what we have today, and that's what this promise is based on. I would like to say again that in the Center Party we are not forced by any whip – we are relieved in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e4013	Today, it is possible to end one of several concomitant pregnancies with so-called foetal reduction. This was not the case when the abortion law was passed. Therefore, the intervention is neither regulated by the abortion law nor mentioned in the preparatory work of the law. This unexplained question of interpretation has been called a hole in the abortion law and has led to uncertainty as to how the law should be understood. In 2010, the Health Directorate received an enquiry from Oslo University Hospital, which considered that there was a need for guidelines for the treatment of foetal reduction by abortion students. That is why the Ministry of Health and Health was asked to clarify whether the abortion law allows abortion of one of several healthy foetuses. The clarification was missing. For three years, the Labour Party sat in the Ministry of Health and Welfare without clarifying. We also know this emergency unit from the case of doctors' right of reservation, which first got its solution with Minister of Health Bent Höie. Then it's fresh from the former government party SV from this pulpit to call it a historical weakening of the law. Perhaps the casualty at the time was due to the fact that there was no will in the red-green government to clarify neither reservation rights nor foetal reduction. The proposal of the Central Party – together with the Christian People's Party – in the Stockholm Council in 2017 to ban foetal reduction may indicate this. Was it wanted to drive black cars that made the former health ministers Anne-Grete Stroem-Erichsen and Jonas Gahr Støre not clarify this? Some have referred to the Norwegian abortion law of 1976 as an agreement that this government is making when we adopt today a change in the legal text of the abortion law. Then I would like to remind you that it was the Right Party and the Advance Party that moved by the conciliation when we in the government stood behind the Legal Interpretation of the Ministry of Justice and Defence, which extended the understanding of the abortion law. Although I supported this expansion, I was very surprised that it did not lead to more debate, as I know that there is often a strong disagreement about this in the Right. Because unlike many other parties, I feel that the Right has a deeper and more extensive debate on ethical issues. This means that as a liberal conservative party, we are changing as we live, with respect for the human dignity we want to hang. I'm proud of that. When I vote in favour of the government's proposal today, I perceive that I am going back to the Moxnes representative's memory, namely that I am on the Right's adopted programme, which maintains the abortion law that gives women the right to self-determined abortion, with the same interpretations as when the red-green left the government offices in 2013, but with a framework around foetal reduction that the trade unions have demanded, and that the red-green never took the break in clarifying. When former health minister, representative Jonas Gahr Støre, praised the Council of State Höie for asking the Law Department for an assessment, he said he would like to do the same. He thought he would have done it. But he didn't. He didn't think soul and meant he couldn't stand for what he said. He was angry away. Maybe he liked it. The right of Norwegian women to self-determined abortion is not threatened, and Norway will continue to lead internationally in the work on sexual and reproductive rights, as we have done throughout Prime Minister Solberg's reign.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e4030	To the poet Nordby Lunde, who went down from the pulpit now, I just want to say that I didn't need a law department to come to that conclusion. But it was nice to get it, because then it's right there. But it was now my opinion. I will praise the representatives of the Christian People's Party to stand firm and argue for their vision now. I would say to the representative Reiten that for me, there is no limit to what a party can argue for by its primary view of having an impact. In one case where you're in a minority, it's actually even more legitimate. I think we should thank our democracy for standing up for it. The debate here is about what the Right Party, the Progress Party and the Left did about it. Thus, a famous Christian People's Party can change 2c – which Erna Solberg opened up to – but they got a pass. When I ask questions now, is it because: Is there any reason to look at the possibility that the Christian People's Party can be re-enforced? They're good dealers, Erna Solberg will be in government, the three other parties are willing to go far. I'll never believe for a second that the representative Becquerad will applaud the decision of Alabama, I know him in a completely different way. But I want to ask Confessor the following questions, and there is an opportunity to answer: a few days ago, this magnificence discussed a constitutional bill from the Christian People's Party, which states that 'everyone has the right to physical integrity from conception to natural death'. If this proposal had been given a majority – it was not possible to get it – would it have led, according to the representative Bekkewold, to changes in the abortion law we have today? Why is that interesting? What's happening in the United States now is that in Alabama, who's got a majority to ban abortion, they know it's illegal under American law. The decision is passed by the U.S. court, because it is against US federal law. But that is also the purpose of the decision, which is to operate upwards in the judicial system of a Supreme Court, which can re-assess the decision of 1973, Roe v. Wade, which guaranteed the right to self-determined abortion in the United States. Now there may be a majority in the court that would say, ‘We want to change that.’ Then my question, translated into Norwegian, is: If this Constitutional proposal had been given a majority – and this is the Christian People's Party's view, that is the Christian People's Party, I assume, will meet the other parties in government negotiations at a new crossroads, if they come there – would this lead to changes in the abortion law? It might be interesting to know now, because it says something about how solid that law is that now everyone is saying is stoned – everyone is for it, and everyone wants to fight for it. I would like to hear from the sensuous representative Bekkevold how he views it. If that constitution had been given a majority, would that have led to a change in the law on abortion?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e4045	Of course, it is voiced by the representative Gahr Støre to give Christian People's Party recognition that they can have a different view of abortion law. But I hope that all those in the Christian People's Party who called for them to negotiate with the Workers' Party have noted the Workers' Party's representatives' reference to the persuasion of the Christian People's Party, and not least the Workers' Party's view of discussing matters that are important to other parties – the matters that matter to other parties and their voters. I also hope that the Center Party will remember that, but they do have quite a lot of experience with that question already that they can take with them. It is also special to note that many of the Workers' Party's representatives mention the abortion topics – that they are there to blame, shame and renunciation – and that representatives say that they cannot accept that the woman herself should not decide. Well, it's only been a few months since the National Assembly of the Workers' Party, where a large majority maintained the position that abortions after week 12 should be treated in the name. That is what the Labour Party's policy is. Then I'm surprised that someone mentions having their cases evaluated in the name of something that blames people, shame and renunciation. What's this thing about, really, for women? Then we can go back to Norway before 2016. We can go back to Norway for all eight years the Labour Party has been in a majority government. If one was a woman, got pregnant with twins, had a difficult home situation, would many children from before and wanted to have only one child, what would she be met with in the Norwegian health care? Yes, an absolute no – that was not the case. The working party was made aware of this in 2010, and they did not lift a finger to do anything about it. How will a woman in that situation meet after what is happening today? Well, she will be met by a health service that says that her case will be assessed by an official. The name will give her advice and guidance, and they will focus on her assessment of her own life situation. In that case I drew out, that example, the woman would most likely have been granted foetal reduction. This is what is the difference between Norway after this decision and Norway under the Workers’ Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e4056	This debate has made me think, what is working when you want fewer abortions? What action is taken if more women want to have children? Maybe it works to ensure safe and good maternity care throughout the country, so that the person who is pregnant doesn't have to be afraid of birth? Maybe it works to do something about the climate crisis, so that the child has good prospects? Or maybe it works to make society more universally designed and equipped to help families who have children with greater needs for care? There are measures that I would like to take, but the government will not take any of these measures. On the contrary, all this has worsened with today's government. The government will only try one thing to get fewer abortions, to force women to have more children. The proposal to have a majority tonight is not only problematic because it takes away women's freedom and goes far beyond the line of how far the state can interfere in private life, it's also problematic because it's a shortcut that's not going to work to anything but to put the women's fight back.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e4065	This debate makes me a little worried. It's been a long day. We've discussed reindeer drift, fur, aquaculture, etc., and there's some strangely strong similarities here. Because when we treated the ban on fur keeping, one representative after another from the government party went up and said that they were actually opposed to this, but it had managed through negotiation. They were actually against, so this was a bad day for them, but they're voting for it, for what they've got. In this case, there's kind of a completely different kind of dynamics that comes into play, and it's that wise people who have stood on the point of view I have in this matter, throughout their political life, now suddenly start to argue into a completely different position. There will be a kind of image that only confirms the international comparisons that have been drawn in this debate, that we actually see a rotation in this room. Suddenly, more people have joined the moral crusade, the moral crusade they never shared, a moralization in politics that we're going to go back a long way to find, what we thought we'd taken a specter with, but that comes back -- that a pusher people to do things they don't want to do, or stop people doing things they really want to do. Being liberal conservative -- I tried to understand it from a purely ideological perspective, but it's just a personality disorder, it's not an ideological project. And that personality disorder is very hard on this matter. There have been many wise speeches, and one of those who have had good points in this case is Toril Eidsheim from the Right. But I want to take one thing into her articles. She mentions with a doctor/gynecologist, that it's not a supervision of high morals, that it's just a story. I'm assuming that a high moral point finger moral, i.e. from those who think they have the right to point out how people should live their lives, like that intimate level. Maybe it's just a story, maybe not -- we don't know who's in these terms. But the point is something completely different. It's that it's not the point finger moral that's the problem, but that it's another's moral that's going to determine what a woman to the seventh and last does with her body and her life. That's what's changed in this case, and it's a serious development we're seeing in the main hall today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e4074	I was challenged by the representative Jonas Gahr Støre to say what the consequences would be if the Constitutional Law of the Christian People's Party had been adopted, which we have promoted in all the periods I have been sitting on the Stortinget – if that would change the abortion law. I would say that the right to life is a right which, despite its fundamental importance, is a right to be realized in a reality full of dilemmas and conflicting interests, and the prohibition of abortion is not a logical consequence of such a right. But it is quite right, as Jonas Gahr Støre reminds us, that the Christian People's Party is promoting such a constitution to raise the debate on the right to life. Otherwise, I just have to say that I do not disagree that we must also have a global, that is to say an international perspective when we discuss this. Women's sexual and reproductive health is important, and we know that it is threatened in many countries. We should be aware of that, and we have a Minister of Development who is very concerned about this topic and who is working well on it. What I'm responding to is that the Christian People's Party is now being inserted into a context in which I believe that neither the Christian People's Party nor this case belong. Being inserted into an Alabama context seems to me to be a little too daunting. We're going to make a change in the abortion law. Norway is no longer, if this bill is adopted, Europe's most liberal country in terms of the practice we have had, but to put it into a context where you compare this with what is happening in the United States, and also in Europe, and see the currents that are there, I think it is wrong. I think we should rather group the cancers, so that we can also raise this perspective internationally. That's what this government is doing, and we're going to keep doing. I would like to take this opportunity, including as rapporteur-in-Office, to thank for a debate that has been intense, demanding – certainly demanding for all of us. But there has been an important debate from the point of view of the Christian People's Party, and I am pleased that the government has made the proposal it has made.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e4083	The representative, Tuva Moflag, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e4088	I thought it was very special to hear the contributions of the representative Nordby Lunde, where she makes this a question of what Jonas Gahr Støre did or did not do. The fact is that in 1975 the Stortinget passed a law opening up to foetal reduction in Norway, as the legal interpretation in 2016 stated. This is not about what happened in 2013. It's about what's going on here tonight. The government will remove the opening for abortion of one or more healthy multiples, foetal reduction, in a pregnancy before the limit of self-determined abortion. That is what the liberal feminist Heidi Nordby Lunde will vote on today, in 2019.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e4093	The representative of Nordby Lunde replied that foetal reduction was an unresolved legal issue – that the Ministry of Health had asked for clarification, and they had to. I totally agree with that. They had to. The central question that some people had to solve was this: Does it allow women to decide for themselves when it comes to multiple fetuses within the 12-week limit? The answer to that is yes – it does the law. The right-hand control requires a statement from the Law Department to be made clear. It's an honest thing. It's nice to involve the Law Department. But this is a little bit of a legal question. This is fundamentally political. It's not just about the wording of the laws, it's about the purpose of the laws. Reducing the right to self-determined abortion has called for a change in the legal text. It also shows how it was already clear that women themselves have to be able to determine within the 12-week limit, regardless of whether they have one or more foetuses in their stomachs. It is also said from Nordby Lunde's side that in the Right Party there is room for a deeper discussion of these kinds of questions, and that the representative is proud of it. It's quite fine, but I don't think it helps so much to say it to a twin mother or to one who has vibrations in her stomach, which is in an extreme situation of life, who knows what's right for her, but who no longer gets to decide for herself. Because that's what becomes the reality after tonight – that more women have to be called a decision that they could take themselves before, that a decision is drawn from them and moved away. So the question is whether this is a difficult matter. That's it. Then the most qualified person must decide on the matter. In fact, the case is so difficult that only the best qualified can decide on it, and there is no one at all. It's a woman herself.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e4104	I would first like to thank the representative Gahr Støre for a respectful contribution. When we talk about things as difficult as this, it's precisely with mutual respect that's immeasurably important. The representative of Kolberg said that we should use a low voice when talking about such problems and such issues, and I fully agree with that. But since the representative Gahr Støre challenged us on what was the big debate a few days ago, on our constitution proposal, I want to give back a little challenge – let me just say that I don't want to go up a big principleal debate: on the other end of the scale there is also a problem, because if one says that an unborn child by definition does not have human rights, there is also a fundamental problem in defending why one should not allow abortion until the pregnancy is completed. Since Roe v. Wade was launched: it was actually a confession in federal U.S. Supreme Court that led to that in the U.S. today, federal, there is not an upper limit to having an abortion. It's also part of the picture when you're trying to understand the enormous tension that's in the United States, and why this arouses so strong feelings. I repeat, it's not my intention now to draw up a big debate on this, but I just wanted to give back the little challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e4114	The representative of Ingvild Kjerkol has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e4119	To the Council of State claims that in a given situation Norwegian women would have been met without an offer in the Norwegian healthcare system: I just want to make it clear that from 2002 to 2015, the National Treatment Service for Advanced Invasive Obstetrics states that a total of 18 foetal reductions – three quails, seven vills and eight twins were carried out. We can have different opinions, and we have that in this case. Bent Höie was busy respecting them. But we can't accept alternative facts. To Reiten, who was concerned that we had to debate the abortion law because the technology has evolved, I would say that the procedure used in the intervention of foetal numbers reduction was first described in a scientific article in 1978. It's the same age as the abortion law.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e4126	The representative Jonas Gahr Støre has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e4131	I would like to thank Mr Becquerad for his reply, and in particular for highlighting international developments, which are going in a negative direction, and for the fact that there is a Council of States standing up to it. I believe that is the case with a Norwegian State Council. What surprises me, however, is that the representative refers to making constitutional proposals – whether the aim is to have a debate. I assume that it is more than that, and that is why I believe the question is relevant. With that proposal at the bottom – had it received a majority, what would it have done with regard to the abortion law? What does the Christian People's Party want to meet the next time they meet the Right Party and the Advance Party in a discussion about government? What changes do they want to make to the abortion law? There must be something you can share in this room when we now discuss this important law.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e4138	What surprises me in this debate is the Right-Women. The representative Heidi Nordby Lunde systematically attacked those who really agree with her in what we are about to adopt today. She says that the Right is supposed to have a deeper and more comprehensive debate on such ethical issues as what we are about to address today. Then it's interesting to remember that when the abortion law was passed in this room, the four government parties that are represented here today were also opposed. Nor was it on the basis that they were more ethical or had more extensive discussion. They were quite the opposite. The right has never gone into the brink of women's right to control their own bodies, they've dragged their legs after themselves. It is not the result of a more comprehensive and ethical debate that the right in this case will first be in favour of reservation rights, then opens up to amend §2(c) and today goes in to vote against its own conviction on the question of twin departure. It's not about ethics. This is not about extensive debate. It's all about one thing: power. It's about Erna Solberg going to be sitting. When an international health website describes the Norwegian debate as we had it here last year around Christmas, they write that women's right to abortion is being used as a game of political power. It writes a recognised health website. Because abroad you see what kind of discussion this is. It's not a comprehensive discussion, it's not about ethics. It's about a game of power. I am also not satisfied with the way this government takes the fight at international level for women's right to decide over their own bodies. The first thing the government did was cut off the UN population fund, which goes into the brink of women's right to prevention and abortion. When several countries — Belgium, the Netherlands, Denmark and Sweden — took the initiative to denounce the Trump administration’s cutbacks to international aid organisations, the Dutch Minister of Assistance stood on the floor and thanked the countries involved. It was Sweden, Denmark, Belgium, Canada, Cape Verde, Estonia, Finland and Luxembourg. I was in the hall. Norway was not mentioned. First, we were in the first row in the fight for self-determined abortion. Now the Right reluctantly pulls its legs.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e4151	I have respect for the fact that the Christian People's Party fights for its views on this issue – it should only be lacking if they do not work for what they believe in, and what their voters have voted for. I think the question to my party leader, Jonas Gahr Støre, is good in terms of the Christian People's Party's constitution on the right to life. The representative Bekkewold gave a reply to this extent, but if you look at the website of the Christian People's Party, those there have made a deepening that I perceive is more concrete, when they say that life begins at conception, and therefore the Christian People's Party believes that all people have the right to life 'from conception to natural death'. The Christian People’s Party will primarily replace today’s abortion law ‘with a law that guarantees legal protection for the unborn.’ Then you recognize that there are difficult balances, but they are making some references today. For example, it will. concerns where the mother's life and health are at risk as a result of pregnancy or where pregnancy is the result of an offence. If this is the framework for a new abortion law seen by the Christian People's Party, it will be a completely different situation from today's. It is not surprising that this is the Christian People's Party's primary view, and again – I understand that they are working for it, but the challenge is then: What about the three parties that have chosen cooperation with the Christian People's Party? So it's only a few months since we were here in this room and heard the representatives of the Progress Party say that they were a guarantor that there were no changes and restrictions in the abortion law. If there were any changes, there would be extensions. It's a little strange for me to hear Minister of Health Bent Höie talking about what's happening today. Because I had at least thought that one could acknowledge that when there was a change in practice, and then one goes back on it, yes, then it's a signal, and it's no wonder that it's being perceived as a tightening-up. When we see that today's government parties have been willing to make one intrusion into the abortion law – why should we not then believe that they too can be willing to make new intrusions, if this is required for government cooperation? That is why I believe that the debate that the SV and the Workers' Party are most likely to travel here is entirely in place. I must also say that I have not heard one representative from the Christian People's Party say that now they are in line with the changes they want in the abortion law, with today's adjustments. On the contrary, we must be able to assume that they will continue to work for further tightening, based on what they themselves say about their policy area here.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e4164	It is with some wonder that I have followed parts of this debate. I think there are some principles that we must clearly establish, and which I really take as a matter of course, and which I believe most people in this Chamber take for granted, namely that there is broad support for the principles of the abortion law in this Chamber and throughout the Norwegian political landscape. It's not like the abortion law's in play. The adjustments made in the abortion law are too many of us in the Progress Party completely natural and sound changes that address some ethical issues that are most relevant. That is what this debate should really be about. I think I'm talking on behalf of most, at least a lot in the Advancement Party, when I say that yes, there's no doubt -- let's be honest -- that this has been a victory for the Christian People's Party in government. But at the same time, it's a victory that I think most of the Progress Party will think is quite right, because that's not how the abortion law is put into play. There are some ethical issues that are better addressed with the changes we are invited to make today's decision. It seems a little hollow on me when you make this a big equality case. I registered the demonstration that was in front of the Storting today, and the commitment that exists. And then I see other areas of society where I don't see as much engagement from the red feminist movement. It is about girls in Norway in 2019 who are exposed to child marriages and women who are subject to social and sexual control. These are real issues that it should be natural to engage in the name of equality. But that's what's done to the big fight thing. It's almost unreal to look at – all the time the principles of the abortion law are established, but adjustments are made that I think most of us don't see as unreasonable. I see that you're trying to create a picture that this is a Christian fundamentalist hidden agenda. It's completely unreasonable. The link with the United States and the debate that is taking place there is far from Norwegian reality. This is about adjusting the abortion law, and it receives a majority in Stortinget today with the support of all government parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e4177	Mr Andersen has spoken twice earlier in the debate and has the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e4182	You have to hear a lot before your ears go off. Not many weeks have passed since the Progress Party voted against SV's proposal to give girls who have been coerced to Norway the right to retain their residence permit and be free. This case is not about ethical or political clarifications. There was only one need that made this matter come up, and there was the Right Need to retain power. It's a game of power, and it's the Right, Left, and Advance Party that fails, because women's maritime regulations are restricted in this matter. If the Constitutional Law of the Christian People's Party had been passed, we would have had to change the abortion law and tighten it up. We must prevent that. That is why there is a need for a new government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e4189	There is a need to clarify something related to the question of what has been the practice and understanding of law in Norway in the past, before the representative Kjerkol makes it clear that my description is an alternative fact. However, the representative Kjerkol has read the landfill proposal, and it is very clear that the legislation on the possibility to reduce the unborn child, where one had a seriously ill foetus, was clarified as early as 2001. So that's right: there was foetal reduction in Norway from 2001 to 2016, but it was about those cases. What I pulled out in my post was a situation where one has a twin captivity with two healthy twins. As far as I am aware, it was not carried out foetal reduction on it before 2016. The Labour Party, by representatives Gahr Støre, Kjerkol and others, has also tried an alternative story of history in this matter, as if it were clear what was the policy under the Red-Green Government. No, on 4 February 2014, the NRK had a notice of full confusion in hospital doctors about foetal reduction. I want to quote what one of the doctors said there – so this is four years after the Workers' Party was made aware of this issue: ‘I really just want a clarification, and we’re dealing with the rules given.’ That's what clinical director Terje Rootwelt said at the Women's and Children's Clinic at Oslo University Hospital. Further in the essay it says: ‘He says employees experience the choice of who will live and die as difficult.’ There was no clarification from the Labour Party in government on this issue – from 2010, when they were made aware of this, and until they left the government offices in autumn 2013 – although there was a clear need for healthcare to get that clarification. And the consequence of that was that women in the situation I described had a refusal to do – and to be able to assess whether they could at all carry out – abortion if they were pregnant with two healthy twins.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e4208	I have, through the posts of the Minister of Health, tried to find the moral, principled foundation of the government here, but it is impossible to find, so I have given it up. There's no fundamental input to this question. One runs a lot of history, which is very confusing, where it's unclear whether they're actually right, many of the things the council comes up with. I almost have to deal with what Nordby Lunde brought up, that in the Right there is room for deeper discussions. That's the core here: if one is going to have an abortion, should the deep discussion go to the Right, should it go to the Christian People's Party, should it go to the SV, or is the deep discussion going to take place in the Christian People's Party? It seems that you have actually made a pretty active choice in the Right. Now an actual want to invite that kind of intimate discussions into the Right National Meeting, as one has already done for a long time in the Christian People's Party, because one thinks to have a moral right to move into this sphere. These are obviously difficult ethical questions, but it's not the political parties' ethical questions, it's not our job to decide. They're the ones that relate to their task, within the limits we've seen. I must only praise Per-Willy Amundsen, the only one in the Progress Party who takes the word – it says a kind of respect – in this case. But here we have the party that goes to war for people's right to run Segway, while women's right to decide over their own bodies is "greit". It's good to make limitations in it. That's the way it is. So there's no limit to where you want to go either. It is clear that this is a fundamental discussion, which must be founded in principle. And there are two things that are interesting with the Christian People's Party's position on this matter. First of all, they think that their position is the only one that is morally justified. I recognize it as a moral standpoint that the Christian People's Party has taken, but that it is the only thing that is morally justified is wrong. The second is that there is a contradiction in it — for example: The discussion of parental rights in the choice of school; then, all of a sudden, parents are just more important than their children’s right to decide their own religious direction. So here choose a moral principle as one feels it too well.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e4220	It's not every day I think so, but quite often I think that this government composition we have in Norway scares me. This matter is not a matter of principle, as many of the representatives representing the Right and Christian People's Party – and now the Advance Party – say. For the representative of the Progress Party, Per-Willy Amundsen, told me that he registered that there were people standing outside and demonstrating. No, the women's movement has been clear, not just today, but quite a long time, on what this law change means. At the same time, Amundsen's representative chose to tell us what the women's movement should have engaged in. But what I'm asking is, what are you doing for minority women, and what are the fights you've taken for these women? Because when he mentions marriage and social control, it's a shame he didn't hear my first post, about minority women in Norway. At the same time, I just want to say that minority women are also associated with the women's movement and are at the forefront of their own freedom struggle today. What scares me with today's government composition is: When will the Advance Party and the representative Amundsen choose to take his fight, for example, when will he? Have an impact on how we can achieve a sustainable population composition? Because it wasn't long since the representative Amundsen wanted to differentiate child welfare according to the number of children, and the groups that would have it, and how many children they would have child welfare for. Or is it that minorities are now going to have a more liberal abortion law, that minority women may be able to get through to having abortions – in a slightly more liberal way? So, there's a lot of camels being swallowed, and there's a lot of principles you go across, and I wonder what fight somebody wins at the expense of someone else.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e4229	The President would remind you that posts should be addressed to the President and not to individual representatives in the Chamber through du form.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e4234	I heard representatives Tajik, Kjerkol and Huitfeldt say that it is alternative facts to refer to the promised room that new technology has opened up in the abortion law, and that we are thus mistaken in our interpretation of this and present alternative facts. I have then thought, not to go further into this debate, to refer to a joint comitology note when the Stortinget examined the Central Party's proposal to ban foetal reduction: ‘The Committee’ – with the Workers’ Party – ‘shows that when the abortion law was passed, it was not medically possible for a woman to choose how many children she would bear. Today, it is technically possible to end one of several simultaneous pregnancies in case of so-called foetal reduction, and such intervention is not specifically regulated by the law on abortion or referred to in the preparatory work of the law. The Committee’ – with the Labour Party – ‘shows that this unexplained question of interpretation has led to an uncertainty at the country’s hospital as to how the law is to be understood. The Committee’ – with the Workers’ Party – ‘shows that the Ministry of Health and Welfare in Circular I-42/2001 has interpreted the abortion law to allow selective foetal reduction of a seriously ill foetus.’ It goes on to say: ‘The Committee’ – with the Workers’ Party – ‘ further demonstrates that in 2010 the Health Directorate received an enquiry from Oslo University Hospital that considered that there was a need for guidelines on the treatment of abortion subjects in relation to the request for foetal reduction in healthy foetuses. In the light of this enquiry, the Directorate obtained an assessment from the professional community on the medical aspects of this matter’. And on the other hand, ‘The Directorate of Health asked the Ministry of Health and Welfare in November 2010 to clarify whether the abortion law allows abortion of one of several healthy foetuses. The Committee’ – with the Labour Party – ‘points out that this case was pending for several years, and it was not until April 2014 that the Ministry of Health and Health asked the Department of Justice for an assessment of the case. The Committee’ – with the Workers’ Party – ‘shows that the Legal Department has interpreted the law and found that it allows for foetal reduction of healthy foetuses.’ So this new interpretation of the law was in 2016. Before that it would have been a illustrious room. Now we fill that room, give it a regulation that the trade unions have asked for, and make sure that it comes into new forms.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e4256	Let me start by thanking the representative Hussein for the challenge of gender equality in immigrant environments. If one party has travelled that tab, gone ahead and made proposals and recommendations and has taken the debates that have been and are necessary to give women equal rights regardless of cultural background, it is the Progress Party. In many ways it is the Progress Party that has invented integration policy in this area. We are in no way in goal, but it is the Advance Party that has gone ahead. It is the Progress Party that has shown its way. We are the party that has raised the real problems of actually having sexual mutilation in Norway. It is the Progress Party that has gone ahead and fought against coercion, which has fought against social control, which has fought against sexual control, precisely through our integration policy, by demanding that we adapt to Norwegian society and Norwegian values. And central to the Norwegian values is equality – equality regardless of cultural background. Yes, that means that sometimes we have to trample on some sore toes, and that we actually have to allow ourselves to challenge some cultural ballasts that have brought foreign cultural immigration to Norway. It is then so strange to listen to this debate, as I have said, a suspicion of a Christian fundamentalist agenda, which is not at all correct – it is an adjustment of the abortion law. Over all these years, we've had one rule for Loke and another rule for Tor. The same requirements have not been met for immigrants with Muslim backgrounds that have been set in Christian settings. That time should be over. If we're going to have real equality, we're going to have to see past it. Then we have to give them all equal rights. This means that girls with a foreign cultural background growing up in Norway should have the same opportunities, should not be subject to social and sexual control and should have freedom and equality in the same way as all others. So the answer is yes – the Advance Party has gone ahead. The Progress Party has shown its way, and in many ways we have raised the real problem of gender equality in Norway, which is linked to foreign cultural immigration and not to adjusting the abortion law today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e4267	The President will recall and request that the following articles remain in force until the matter is resolved. Now the representative was challenged, so it's okay, but the president asks that we stick to the matter in the future. The regulatory time is running out. The President will propose that the meeting continue until the current map has been completed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e4274	What might become clearer and clearer at the end of this discussion is that the Progress Party does not want to defend the position they are going to vote for today, and is talking about something quite different, which we would like to discuss. But let's stick to what's the matter. Nor did Heidi Nordby Lunde, who said that she answered my post, responded to the post that I made, for what she claimed from this pulpit, was that the Right had a deeper and more extensive debate on ethical issues. On the basis of a thorough review by both the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Justice, Heidi Nordby Lunde and Right and the Advance Party will end up in one position, but after some negotiations to remain in the government position, you change your position and get a different opinion. It's not deeper, it's not more extensive, and it's no longer ethical. That is why I think it is wrong to claim that the Right is a party that is in favour of women's rights, when they first opted for the right of reservation during this government period, so Erna Solberg opened up to change Section 2(c), and today they are adopting changes to the law that they are actually in favour of. There's no respect for it, and I expect Heidi Nordby Lunde to explain what the ethics of changing his position is – not when there's an extensive discussion, but when there's a game of power.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e4287	The representative of Marian Hussein has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e4292	The representative Per-Willy Amundsen told me that it was the Progress Party that had changed Norwegian integration policy, but I want to bring forward some women who have changed Norwegian integration policy. One of them is called Fakra Salimi. Another lady is Kadra Yusuf. A third lady, whom I spoke of earlier today, is Asha Barre. Nancy, Amina and Sofia – it is these women and many more women with a minority background who have changed Norwegian integration policies. The progress party is best known for, is the Mustafa letter. It's alienating us who are here, who are in Norway, who want to participate. Norwegian integration policy has always been led by women who will fight their own freedom struggle on their premises.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e4297	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e4313	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be up to seven lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e4322	Now I think there are many who have been sitting in the hall and are looking forward to a tearing public health debate! So it's fully legitimate to be seated. There is a cross-political consensus on the continuation of the national main objectives of public health policy. Norway should be among the three world countries with the highest life expectancy. The population shall experience several years of living with good health and less social differences. We're going to create a society that promotes health in the whole population. Norway has joined the UN's sustainability target, and we aim to reduce the number of people who die early from non-infectious diseases such as cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, coal and cancer by 25 pst. by 2025 and 30 pst. by 2030. Developments in Norway are positive in several areas, but the increase in obesity and diabetes is going in the wrong direction. There is an overall committee that believes that it is important to reverse this trend and, through good public health work, individuals can achieve better health and quality of life and society can save huge costs. The Communication states that the government wants to step up early efforts for children and young people, to prevent loneliness and less inequality in health. These themes are devoted to extra space in the message. Across parties, we stand united on the goal of creating good growth conditions for all children, a strong commitment to solitude and reducing the social differences in health. The communication shows the breadth and complexity of public health work, which in turn probably explains the scope of the proposals that some of us have promoted in the matter. The communication is good in the problem description of what we are facing public health challenges in this country. It is particularly important for the government to point out that they are continuing the organisational framework for public health work and that public health reports are promoted for the Stortinget every four years. It is important that the size should be involved in the work. It is an overall committee that promotes the recommendation of the Committee II. The Committee's recommendation I is the Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party. I feel that the committee's work has been good. The Committee has also received several written submissions and an open hearing on the matter has been held. I hope that I can go straight ahead with my party post?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e4343	You have one and a half minutes left. I guess you could take it right away. You can continue, you have some time left.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e4350	In the problem description, the Workers' Party separates the team from the government. The difference has been given considerable space in the notification, but the fundamental injustice in the very inequality is not addressed by solutions. This must be said to be presented as a problem without any concrete solutions. All children should have the same opportunity to achieve a good life and good health. Unfortunately, it's not like that. Family background and education are coherent factors that affect whether children live long or whether they achieve a good and healthy life. It's unfair. In common, we could do more to keep people healthy longer. Each of us has a responsibility for our own health, but together we could do more for each other's health. Creating a health-promoting society is a Community project and not something left to each of us. Only half of the 15-year-olds are physically active. There are major challenges in society. We see that there are young people who are struggling with great things in their lives. It is time for us to look critically at society to make sure that our children and young people experience a health-promoting childhood. I will address the proposals on which the Workers' Party is involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e4361	The representative Elise Björnebeck-Waaagen has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e4366	Anyone who reads the public health report will see that there are many factors that affect the health of its citizens. We would like to think that the quality of food and drink, physical activity, tobacco and alcohol are the main factors affecting public health. However, public health reports show that many more factors mean a lot, such as: children break the reading code at primary school and do not drop out of high school, but get education and work, that immigrants receive good Norwegian training, are integrated and come into work, that the authorities have good agreements with the food industry to reduce the amount of salt and sugar in the food that we buy in the store, quality of life, life-happiness, mental health and alcohol, violence and abuse, infectious diseases and preventive health, that together we do what we can to reduce loneliness, but also how the municipalities organise tours and the community, and the efforts of all the countries' associations and teams. Even rumen fields and middle parts are referred to as preventive measures. There are a lot of agencies that influence public health and do their job so that we can achieve our national goals. Norway should be among the three world countries with the highest life expectancy, the population should experience more years of living with good health and well-being and with reduced social health differences. We're going to create a society that promotes health in the whole population. Voluntary associations and teams to organize trips and good experiences are worth gold. It is not possible for a country like Norway to develop and maintain all the routes that our beautiful country has to offer. I am always impressed by the amazing hard work done – paths are cleared and marked, materials to walkways are carried far out in the woods and allow others to walk dry over the moor. The unselfish spirit of virtue you find in our country must be fertilized and further developed. When developing new residential areas, municipalities should simultaneously renovate tourist paths and outdoor meeting places, which will enhance physical health, while at the same time counteracting solitude. Land use planning can play an important role in creating good social relations between those living and living in these neighbourhoods. Spatial planning should have a generation-wide perspective, so that the community is organised for the needs of the elderly, while free areas are challenging and exciting enough for grandchildren to find it fun to be on trips. Life expectancy in Norway has increased sharply since the early 1900s. One of the main causes is vaccines. Today, there is an attitude among some people that they should not take vaccines. It scares me. Many of the vaccines we are offered are important – not least to us nordics, who travel as much as we do to parts of the world where there are diseases that are eradicated here with us. Vaccines are an important measure to protect the population from the spread of infectious disease. Vaccines were in their time new technology, which gave breakthroughs to public health. Today, research includes: University of South East Norway on micro-systems that can strengthen public health. Micro- and nanotechnologies can provide early detection of non-infectious diseases such as cancer, cardiovascular diseases, the lung disease of coals and diabetes. Among other things, the use of micro-systems for the analysis of fluid biopsy and the use of nanotechnologies will lead to ground-breaking progress in early detection and diagnosis of disease. The most important health work is to prevent people from getting sick. The government will lay the principle of preventing where one can and can repair where one has to, to the detriment of public health. A good and preventive public health policy should enable individuals to make good choices for their own health. Good health and good living conditions are connected. Public health work must facilitate better health for all. This will also help reduce social inequality. State, state, municipality, employer and association life are important for strengthening public health. But everything boils down to each of us and the choices we make for our own lives. Each of us will always be left responsible for the choices we make. Three million Nordics are not as physically active as health authorities recommend. The numbers have to go down. We have to do our part to ensure that people make good choices for their own health, but after all, each one has to take responsibility for his own health. One half hour of activity every day means an incredible amount to each of us. The premium for physical activity is, among other things, increased well-being, improved mental health, improved weight control and reduced risk of lifestyle diseases such as type 2 diabetes, cardiovascular diseases, high blood pressure and some cancers. In other words, we don't get sicker. Increased activity level is the best investment we can make in our own body for better health.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e4383	There is broad political agreement on the objectives of public health work in Norway. Developments in Norway in the field of public health are positive, but in important areas we are going in the wrong direction. The potential for providing all better health and reducing social health inequalities is great, and it is a political responsibility. Public health reports provide a good description of the public health challenges in Norway, but contain little concrete initiatives and measures. The notification shows a government that will take little action at system level to achieve good public health in the population. The government strongly refers to new strategies, new action plans and new measures to be assessed. An example is when it comes to school meal, where the government will ‘assemble and identify good ideas and concrete solutions for breakfast arrangements in the youth sphere and distribute them in an appropriate way’. The center party thinks we have to be clearer. We want free fruit and green, a single school meal and an hour of physical activity. These are important measures for prevention among children and young people. When it comes to alcohol policy, public health notification is also weak. Only an alcohol strategy is shown. It was something that the Christian People's Party got a lot together with us in the opposition, against the voices of the government party Right, the Progress Party and the Left last spring. The Christian People's Party, together with us, also received a number of concrete proposals for a better alcohol policy, for example. alcohol labelling. None of this is to be seen again in the Public Health Notice. The question is how the Right Party and the Christian Party in particular have let this happen. We propose that the alcohol strategy should come to Stortinget, because otherwise the Storting will lose all influence on alcohol policy as an important public health effort. In the public health report, the government has also presented a national tobacco strategy. We suggest that he be sent back, because the main objectives of this strategy are very low. There is only one target to avoid increasing sneezing. One in five young people is sniffing today. In the existing strategy, the goal was that part of those who smoke daily should be under 10 pst. Then the situation was that 17 pst. smoked daily. Now it's coming down to 12 pst. The target is still 10 pst. - So only 2 pst. reduction. In the existing strategy, there was also a clear objective that no child should be exposed to passive smoking, and that the part of pregnant women who smoked at the end of pregnancy should be below 4 pst. These concrete objectives are also completely absent in a new strategy proposal. That's why we can't stick to the strategy used in public health communication in such an important area to prevent social health differences. Health inequalities in Norway are increasing. He's increasing more than in other countries. The government wrote in the message that they would consider an external review of the national anti-social health policy, which could provide the basis for a new national strategy. That's not gonna work. Health inequalities are one of our greatest health policy challenges. It requires a completely different approach from that adopted by the government in this public health report. That is why we are proposing a public distribution on inequalities in health services and social health, with concrete objectives and measures. Finally, physical activity: The government is imposed by the Stortinget, on the basis of a proposal by the Central Party to launch an action plan for physical activity. We also demand that this action plan be presented and presented to the Stortinget, and that one there establish a good cooperation with the outdoor organisations and facilitate one hour of physical activity in the school every day. Finally to drinking water: I'll come back to it in a later article, but I'll already signal now that we're going to support proposal No. 42, from the Socialist Left Party, which is a loose proposition. I would also like to inform you that we are going to vote for I in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e4402	Public health is a comprehensive theme and concerns many aspects of life. There are many policy fields that are involved and that need to be seen in conjunction with each other if it is seen in a life-cycle perspective, because it is about our quality of life and all that prevents both physical and mental health problems and diseases. It's about both the air we breathe in, the water we drink, the food we're served, and the possibility of outdoor life and physical activity to stay healthy. And this is about other needs, such as: community and social networks, which prevent solitude and provide cultural content in life, and which enable us to experience development and development. There are many themes to consider here, but after many years of experience with children and young people, I have seen how the parents' wallet affects both the food the children eat and the activities they attend outside school. That's why this very topic I think it's important to address here right now. Research also shows that the socio-economic background of parents has an impact on the physical level of activity of children, on dietary habits and on the incidence of obesity. I am concerned that social inequalities in health are increasing in Norway and that health inequalities in Norway are greater than in several other European countries. It is therefore incredibly important to initiate measures limiting this development. What is better than starting with childhood, because then we are on the prevention side, and prevention is both better and cheaper than repair. That's why SV wants to introduce free and healthy school food throughout primary school. We've been talking about this for a number of years, and in our alternative budget, we've proposed in addition to primary school funding for school food for all pupils in the upper secondary school. I would also like to remind the government parties that physical activity in school is important for good habits that last for life, and that the Stortinget dealt with a representative proposal from SV, the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Green Party and the Christian People's Party in 2017 on daily physical activity in school. It was decided unanimously to ask the government to draw up an action plan for physical activity. However, the government has not taken action to follow up the proposal in practice. The government continues to indicate that the action plan will be drawn up. It is time for the government to address this and present an action plan with concrete proposals on how to follow up one hour of physical activity in school. As I said, there are a lot of issues that are part of public health, which I may not get time to record right now. However, I would like to address the solutions proposed by SV, and the proposal we are dealing with alone in the vote. They will be presented in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e4415	Then the representative Sheida Sangtarash has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e4420	The World Health Organisation has announced that in 2020 70 pst. have a life-style background of all diseases. This is often about complex diseases, one disease is caused by the other in a known pattern. Poor and poor nutrition and poor physical activity can lead to physical disorders such as cardiovascular disease, diabetes 2 or muscle and skeletal disorders. So isolation, solitude and mental challenges of an even more serious nature, such as depression and schizophrenia. It has been demonstrated that a number of cancer diagnoses are also at a reduced risk of death if the course of treatment had been started at a lower rate, i.e. before the diagnosis was made. So prevention is the key. It's calculated that if all the Nordics spent 30 minutes a day on physical activity, we would save our community 137 billion. kr in health expenditure. This figure says something about how the concept of public health has evolved over time. While the health of people in previous times was about reducing the consumption of body activity, reducing working time and making work processes less demanding, public health is now largely about making people use the body for what it was created for — physical activity. I dare to argue that past public health work had more clearly defined instruments than we are facing today's challenges. The answers to the challenges are complex, because most of us have experience for forcing and whipping, in the transferred sense, not helping, it's about motivational work. Besides parental regeneration, it's obvious that school owners and teachers have an important role to play, but I'm going to focus on health care tasks. It's a fact that 82 pst. the population is within a fixed period of one year. In a survey conducted by Norstat in a sample of 1000 people, only 25 pst. spoke with his supervisor about physical activity. Even more alarming is that the decision maker has only taken the initiative to talk about this in 7 pst. of the cases. It's spectacular because the doctors should know better, and because they're in a special authoritative position to create lifestyle changes. It's bad, because only three out of ten adults and older people live up to the minimum standards of keeping the body moving. Some of the reasons why the decision is not more active in this field may be that the medical study is too marked by repair and not prevention. Therefore, doctors and physiotherapists in the organisation Exercise is Medicine Norway have been committed to intervening in the medical studies and offering students courses in physical activity and patient treatment. The organisation has also cooperated with the Directorate for eHealth and Health Norway.no to find technical and legal solutions to record the level of activity. This work is promising. So the hall will have me admit that I'm dealing with this, which in itself is not treated in the public health message – but keppfest is also a physical activity. Not long ago, the Health and Care Committee received a review of the Blankholm Committee’s report on primary health priorities. In the presentation, attention was paid to the lack of evidence on the effectiveness of prevention measures and the effectiveness of interventions. In fact, we know to a very small extent something about where we're going to go first and foremost to create a better public health in the time that's coming. We just know what works, and how much works. The medical environment now needs to take more seriously research into primary health care and prevention. For the Left, public health has been high on the agenda ever since the party was formed. Our policies have always linked family policies, school policies, environmental policies, employment policies, culture and health measures, including mental health promotion. The present Communication clearly demonstrates the importance of this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e4432	Public health is a big area. It is cross-sectoral, and it is a major field for which our new Minister of Public Health has been given responsibility. We have expectations of what the government will propose of measures that will improve public health. Very much goes well in Norway, even when it comes to public health, but the case-rapporteur pointed out two areas where things are going in the wrong direction. It's about obesity, and it's about diabetes. It must not only worry us, but also lead us to be willing to use political instruments to see if we can reverse that trend. The Christian People's Party has never been afraid to use political instruments to improve public health. The Smoking Act is a good example of that. It was hated when it came, but today it is loved. I believe that in several other areas where we know that we have a lifestyle that does not promote public health, it is possible to use political instruments to turn it in the right direction. I know that the Minister of Public Health is concerned about the situation regarding Norwegian water and water quality. The things we have learned about Ashøy are serious, and I don't think Ashkoy is the only municipality that is struggling with this. I would like to thank the Minister for a safe follow-up to a difficult situation as well as for showing consideration for the people affected. The Minister of Public Health will ask the Food Safety Authority to carry out a comprehensive survey of the situation in drinking water in all the municipalities of the country. In the survey, she will have an answer to the state of affairs, the main challenges the municipalities face in the drinking water sector, the state of the wiring network, the plans available for maintenance and replacement of wiring networks, and, of course, the cost of investments. I also know that she wants to invite you to a meeting with KS, Norwegian Water and the supplier industry in the water and sewerage sector. There she will discuss the possibility of establishing a programme for technology development in the water industry as a spice layer between the state, the municipality and the supplier industry. I think this is good, but that's probably not enough. We know that we're struggling with ancient grids, some back to the 1800s, and we know that the investment costs are formidable, but it has to be solved, because this really affects people's health, and this is definitely part of public health. Another area that has been raised in this message is that of solitude. The Communication states that a new strategy for solitude should be put forward. It also aims to incorporate solitude into the Public Health Act, so that all municipalities have to keep an overview of the scope and have a plan of action and an action plan for solitude. I think this is very good. What is challenging in the fight against solitude is that there is very little research into what measures are countering it. But how we talk about solitude is crucial. Words create reality. When we talk about people as lonely, we talk about us. It's not the lonely ones and the rest of us. Loneliness is not related to age. It's about different life situations and changes, where we can all lack more social and emotional support than what we give. Many people experience that it is difficult to open up about loneliness and other negative feelings. But I just want to raise one thing, and it is that in Norway we have many non-governmental organisations that invite to open meetings and events – in sports, art, crafts, faith and life views, music, outdoors, politics and other interests. We're committed to giving these good framework conditions, because we think they can help create friendships that are built in the natural communities. I look forward to further work on public health.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e4457	Public health in Norway is good. Our life span is growing steadily and is now around 84 years for women and 81 years for men. Effective, systematic and long-term public health work has contributed to this. Creating a safe society and promoting health-friendly choices are important elements of this work. In order to maintain good public health, the government will step up efforts in early efforts for children and young people, preventing solitude and less social inequality in health. The government prioritises efforts to promote good health and improve the quality of life of children and young people. This concerns, among other things: to facilitate good parenting, safe homes and a good community environment. High-quality kindergartens and schools are fundamental. Therefore, the government will make its own notification of early efforts. Over the last few years, we have increased health care and school health resources, including midwifery, by 1.3 billion. kr. We have also presented a stepping-up plan for the mental health of children and young people. Everyone should be able to participate in society and receive social support. But we know that too many people are lonely. In the Public Health Communication, the government launched its own enterprise strategy. If we manage to prevent loneliness, we can help people live better and longer. In addition to making sophistication visible as a public health problem, the aim of the new strategy is to gain more knowledge and to prevent better. Norway is one of the world's best countries to live in, and most people are doing well. Nevertheless, there are still social inequalities, including in health. Children living in low-income families are particularly vulnerable. We're taking this seriously. The government has, among other things: work on a cooperative strategy to increase the opportunities for participation and development of children in low-income families. We also continue our efforts to prevent high school drop-outs and to stimulate the widest possible employment. Good public health is also about access to safe drinking water. The outbreak in Ashkoy raises questions about whether drinking water supply in Norway is good enough and what needs to be done to secure it for the future. Public health reports describe several of these themes. People should be able to trust that drinking water is safe. Therefore, municipalities must take their responsibility and renew drinking water pipes more quickly. I want to make sure that the requirements of the Drinking Water Regulation are followed up by the Food Authority. I want to ask the Food Authority to monitor the drinking water situation in all the municipalities of the country. I want information about the state in general, the wiring network in particular, the plans of municipalities for the maintenance and replacement of wiring networks and the obstacles they see to improve the situation. I would also like to invite you to a meeting with KS, Norwegian Water and the supplier industry in the water and sewerage sector. There I would like to discuss the possibilities of establishing a programme for technology development in the water industry as a sprawl layer between the state, the municipality and the supplier industry. Drinking water is an area in which we've had attention for years. The Directorate of Health has been mandated in the 2018 and 2019 letters of allocation to draw up a national risk and vulnerability analysis for the health sector as a whole, in which water is to be specifically addressed. This analysis is expected in a short time. We are many who need to work together on public health: both the public, voluntary sector, user organisations, non-profit actors and business must contribute. Volunteering already has many good measures to strengthen public health: visiting and activity friends in the care of the elderly, walking groups for seniors through the Norwegian Tourist Association and the Red Cross are two examples. The government is committed to supporting voluntary efforts in this area. Through the public health programme established by the government, we also want to support and further develop the important public health work done in the municipalities. A wise man should have once said that our task is not to add years to life, but to fill the years we get with life. We're going to try to do both.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e4476	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e4481	In the case of young people who come from their homes with little resources, we know that research suggests that it is precisely these children who can benefit greatly from a school meal. At the same time, we know that all children, regardless of their parents' background, benefit from just a school meal. Yesterday, the state council was out in the media saying that parents should pay for a school meal, and estimated between 300 and 500 kroner a month. With three children of school age, it amounts to $15,000 a year, which must be a lot of money for most families. In the public health report, the government is on the defensive in school meal policy. It says that one should ‘assemble and identify good ideas’. I wonder, why does the government not want to launch a measure that is so important in order to balance social differences in health?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e4490	I think a lot of parents are impatient to get an offer at the school where you can buy food, because you've seen politicians promise free school food for years without that happening. Some schools have it right, because the municipality is going in and funding it. Others choose subscription schemes. It's interesting that the representative mentions 300-500 kroner, that it should be a high price. In the play I had in the VG, I was also clear that those who have little should cover the bill. The representative's own party leader, Jonas Gahr Støre, was out in 2013 and said at the time that he thought parents could pay 700 kroner a month for children's school. So it is clear that the Labour Party has changed the policy in these years, including in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e4497	We need to address the challenges we face, and of course we need to develop the policy afterwards. The National Institute of Public Health recommends that this should be free of charge for all, precisely in order to achieve the impact of social cohesion. But the government itself has stood here in the hall and problematized that her own child pays NOK 4000 a year to play football here in Oslo. I quote: "It may, as far as I and my husband are concerned, pay without any problem, but there are many in this city for which this will be a big cut in the economy." I think there's a lot of us that can understand is a lot of money. Can the Council of State not see that it is the same logic behind the same exclusion mechanisms – in what is happening in sport – that will also work around the school meal table?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e4511	So the parents have to feed their kids. That's a very basic condition for the children to live. It also needs to be done if the children are going to school — whether the parents buy orders, bread and what is needed to send a lunch from home, or whether you pay the school for a good and nutritious meal. The last thing I think is something that many parents would appreciate, is being able to use the money that way instead. In addition, when you assume that those who have poor advice can cover this meal, I honestly don't see the problem with it. In the case of publicly funded leisure activities, the government has said that we want to come up with a scheme to cover it for those who are struggling, those who cannot afford to participate in leisure activities, so that they can be with the others. There is something that this government is taking initiative to do. I'm very happy about that, because it leads to being on the same premises as other kids, even though their parents have bad advice.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e4518	In the Communication, the government writes quite well about the prevention paradox and how important this is to have strong public health action. The council itself stands here and describes how to have protective arrangements for them with bad advice. But how does the Council of State feel that the government's description of the public health prevention paradox corresponds to the government's own policies and actions in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e4523	I think it is quite possible to get arrangements where those who have a bad economy will be able to cover what it costs, for example. to finance school food. That's what they do in more schools today. Gosen school, which is one of the examples used in the public health report, has a subscription scheme where parents pay in, and where those who do not have the opportunity to pay do not. So this is organized in a very good way in many schools, and I'm sure many more can do it if parents, school and others go together to get to this. It'll be good for the kids, they get good and nutritious food at school. It will be good for the parents, who are in a hurry and will reach everything between heaven and earth, perhaps not to lubricate the food package and at the same time know that the children get a good offer. This is exactly what's happening in the kindergarten many places today: you pay a little bit extra, and then the kids get food. I don't understand what's the difference between school and kindergarten when it comes to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e4528	We can read in the media today that the Council of State will invite KS, Norsk Vann and the supplier industry to a meeting to discuss the possibility of creating a technology development programme in the water and sewerage sectors. It is a proposal that we have put forward, which is in the position of public health and which has not been supported by any government party. Would you like this to mean that the Council of States will now be able to create such a program, or is there a possibility to discuss it with these actors?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e4533	When you start working together, you depend on the actors you want to work with. That is why, at first, we want to have a meeting with the actors that we see we can work well with to speed up the replacement of the old wiring network around Norwegian municipalities, and get a job done to ensure safe water supply throughout the country. It is such a program, among other things. can look at, is how we can do it, with technology development and using new technologies, to bring costs down and the pace of replacement up. I think it's a pretty good principle first to talk to those you want to cooperate with, take an initiative, and then I hope, of course, that we will get there.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e4541	Then we're waiting for the government to be willing to prioritize funds into such a program, because this isn't free either. Another proposal from the opposition in the Public Health Communication setting is to get a separate sector law. For years, industry and local authorities have been called upon to have their own sectoral law in order to bring together all regulations into a law, which will make it easier to get a safe water supply. In 2017, there was a majority for a proposal from today's government party that the government had to come back to the Stortinget with proposals for measures and instruments for the overwater problem, including an assessment of a separate sector law. How will the Council of State follow up that proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e4548	The government's assessment is that a sector law like this will not solve the challenges we are now facing. We believe that the measures we are about to take are more appropriate, not least to provide an overview of the situation in the municipalities and to put pressure on those who are not in charge of the nurseries. I believe many Norwegian municipalities in connection with the Askøy case are now getting their eyes on how important it is to provide clean water in the jump and make the necessary investments in the future. New laws and regulations in this area or new sectoral laws do not mean that we will be able to meet this challenge, but that we will actually have to follow up the laws and regulations that already exist.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e4553	I found it extremely disappointing that the government turned its back on the desire to have a separate sector law. The Stortinget has been in favour of this in comments in connection with other public health reports. I think it's a bad reason why you don't think it'll help right now. Getting an eye out – in Bergen in 2004 there was a great epidemic of Giardia, and we've had a similar thing about Røros, if I don't think wrong. The point is that there have been many scandals when it comes to water supply in Norway for the last 10-20 years, and we can't wait to see now. Is it clear with the Left and the Christian People's Party that one should not be in favour of a sectoral law in this government? Is that clear?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e4558	What assessments we make internally in the government belongs to the meetings we have. In the case of Bergen, they had this scandal in 2004, as the representative says. What happened after it, was that they made the necessary investments and arranged the sewing business, which means that Bergen is used as a good example today in a municipality that has a good system, a good water supply system. It can't be that things like this have to be done until you wake up. That's why it's important for me now to make sure that we get an overview of the state, and that pressure is put on the municipalities that don't have it in order. We must ensure that the inhabitants of this country get safe and clean water in the jump. It's absolutely fundamental to our existence. We use the water in so many ways in one day, so it has to be safe. So now we're going to follow that up.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e4565	What's happened on Ashøy is very serious and has been a big waker for many of us. In its speech today, the Council of State has announced new studies to be carried out on the quality of drinking water in Norway. My question is whether this is a completely new initiative by the Council of State, or whether these are the studies that are already underway, which are also described in the Public Health Communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e4570	This is a new initiative, in the sense that we are doing much more thorough work on monitoring the situation out there, getting the status of municipalities both on their own status in terms of water quality and water system, and on what plans they have in the future to be able to meet the requirements of the drinking water regulation and the requirements to be able to deliver clean water to their inhabitants. It is an important initiative that I believe will give us good knowledge to say something even more concrete about the needs of this sector than what we might know today. So that's absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e4575	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e4582	Water is the only thing that does good for the body. It always said my father to us and filled himself with a large glass of clear, cold water from the gap. We've always been sure that the water that comes out of the spring has been clean and good. Fortunately, this is still the case in most of Norway. But in the last few days, we've become a dramatic witness to what happens when we don't guarantee the people clean water. The very serious situation on Ashkoy must be a serious wake-up call for us – both here on the Storing and in the government. In the public health report, we read that today we know little about how many people get sick of drinking water. In addition, an increasingly older drinking water network can make more people sick by drinking water in the years to come. The climate crisis also allows us to get more pollution into our water. That is why SV today is promoting several proposals that we hope to support in a wide variety of ways. We need to get an overview of how many people get sick of the water, how many people are at risk of getting sick of the water, and we need to get a national responsibility to put in place a safe and new pipeline system. We also need our own big message and a discussion about the most life-giving thing we have, the water. Then we can get a thorough review of the status, of the challenges we face, and hopefully a strong escalation in the replacement of the pipeline. Because at today's pace in the replacement of drinking water and sewage pipes, we're not on target until well over 100 years have passed. It's too long to wait. The organisation Norsk Vann has estimated that the costs up to 2040 will be 280 billion. kr. So there's a lot of investment going on. Then it doesn't seem to show that it is the municipalities that are primarily responsible for giving the residents clean drinking water, as the Council of State is doing in the VG today, and also in its contribution here in the hall. The state also has to step up its efforts to ensure that the municipalities can still secure the inhabitants clear, clean drinking water that only makes good for the body, as my father said.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e4593	The clock is ticking, and the president invites the next speakers to be ready, so we're all going through for a reasonable time.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e4598	Economic differences are poisoned both for society and for people’s health. It gives us social health differences that we've known about for a long time. Some years ago, a book called the «Gradient Challenge» came out, not a very popular word, but it shows the very systematic differences in health between those who have good advice and those who have bad advice – it is better to be rich and healthy than sick and poor – and this harms society, and it harms individuals. The economic stress that people who have bad advice experience is a constant and chronic stress. The vice president of the Norwegian Psychologists' Association, Heidi Svendsen Tessand, says to the Newspaper that if you have poor finances, there is a five-fold increased risk of mental and physical problems. For adults, there is a direct link between economic and health concerns. If parents are anxious and stressed, there is a greater risk that it also affects the mental health of children – yes, I have been away in cases where parents go so ‘broken’ that child protection is gradually needed, simply because people are not helped with a totally hopeless economy and poor health. It's not a crisis if people who don't have work, or who have poor health, have an economy that makes them meet and be able to act as good parents and take care of their own and children's health in a good way. It would have been a real public health promise if we had got the government to lift up those who are disadvantaged in this country, because they have systematic major health challenges that are worse than for others. It's a fairy tale that cuts in social benefits make people get into work. No, those people don't get into work, and it makes them sicker. Therefore, the proposals in the vote today are from among others. Sv so incredibly important, among others. to put in place a NOU on this issue and also to put in place low-threshold mental health services for children, young people and families in all municipalities. There's at least one help that these families and these children need. It must be low, it must not be waiting, and it must be unbureaucratic. Then it helps people. I am amazed that the government parties do not agree with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e4609	I'm just going to point the index finger at a new section in the public health report that might seem small, but that's important. The students are a group that can be more vulnerable in several ways than the population otherwise. This is why it is good that they have been given a place in public health communication and that prevention of poor mental health among students is coming. But something else would be strange, after there has been evidence that the students’ health situation has deteriorated significantly in recent years. When the results of the latest SHOT study, the students’ health and well-being survey, were presented, it was very serious figures that came on the table. This study shows that more and more students are struggling mentally. In 2014, every five students had serious mental health problems during their studies; in 2018, there was one in four. Fear, depression and suicidal thoughts are becoming common among Norwegian students. This is dramatic, and we in the Workers' Party believe that the right-wing government must take developments far more seriously than they do today. A better student health requires a much more offensive government policy. In the Labour Party, we want a stronger effort and more targeted policy. In our budget for 2019, we doubled the efforts for prevention and treatment measures, and we believe that we need to find the reasons why children and young people have difficulties. That is why we have consulted the student organisations and other relevant stakeholders in order to identify active actions. We agree with the Norwegian student organisation that, when assessing prevention measures against loneliness and mental health disorders, the government needs a broader and more comprehensive monitoring and research on the health of students through its own reporting on student health. We are promoting a proposal on this together with the SV and the Senterpartiet today. We have an overall policy for students to have good living conditions and good health. Recently, for example, we proposed: a survey of students’ living conditions — it was downgraded. We reject all policies that exacerbate the students' situation. An example is the tightening of the student loan conversion scheme, which puts more pressure on students. We prioritise quality and close follow-up to help more students through, and recently we got through student representatives to everyone. Therefore, we hope that the government parties will support us in the proposal for a separate student health report as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e4621	The aim of the Workers' Party is a society that promotes good health and quality of life for all and that prevents disease. It's about who we are, who we want to be as a community and as an individual. The case rapporteur, Elise Björnebeck-Waaagen, presented well to the Labour Party's public health policy and our proposals in the case, as a clear alternative to the right-wing government. Public health is about keeping healthy people healthy, and as many have said, clean water in the jump is absolutely vital to achieving it. In Norway, we have clean water and we have good access to water – we are lucky. But the case in Ashkoy forms a serious backstop, and public health communication is the opportunity to increase the attention and the means to ensure good water supply. We have great challenges ahead of us to ensure that. The water pipes are old and leaky. Every three liters of water disappears. The waterworks, especially those that have not been rusted up for a long time, are struggling with poor functionality. 1 million people are not guaranteed with alternative water supply and this poses a emergency problem. The previous major upgrading of the water supply was done when the state contributed. Especially between 1995 and 2001, we saw the effects of the State water supply programme. Although the waterworks have been upgraded, much remains on the water pipes. About one-fifth of the grid was built in the Gerhardsen era. Water supply is a public health work that is not noticed until it fails. With the total maintenance seat run estimated at 280 billion. kr, Erna Solberg and the Minister for Public Health cannot just point to the municipalities – the state must also take responsibility. We have proposals in our position on a programme for technology development and innovation in the water industry and on a separate sectoral law for water and sewerage. The bourgeois parties have indicated that they will vote against it. However, it is difficult to understand the Council of States other than that she supports a programme of technology development and innovation in the water industry with the contribution she has just made. Why she does not want to have her own sectoral law is poorly justified. Today, the law has spread over five to six different laws. Liability is fragmented with such a legal structure, and there is no evidence that existing legislation stimulates the investment well enough. A sectoral law exists in some other European countries, and in the past the Stortinget has clearly expressed its desire to start legal work.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e4638	We Northmen can be proud of our health care. We have heroes who save lives at sea in harsh weather, emergency reception when the accident strikes unexpectedly and warm hands that provide care. We have among the world's best health services, and they're free. Investment in good public health is an important part of this. An increasingly tough task for politicians, hospital managers, doctors and nurses is to give priority to health care tasks. New diseases, a higher proportion of older people and more dementia, account for an increasing proportion of resources. The health budget is paid by our tax revenue and limits the scope of health services we can offer. Priority must be given to acute care, serious illness and long-term care needs. Measures for good public health are the best investment we can make. Regular exercise and a healthy diet make everyday life better for you and me. We can do more, and mental health is getting better. We're less likely to get sick, and we're less likely to get seriously ill. When more people are healthy and healthy, healthcare can give priority to those who need it the most. Good public health is good for everyone, and it is good for the social economy. Exercise and healthy diet are a responsibility that rests on each of us, but as a society we can help you make good choices. Children must have local sports and activity services, and they must be accessible to everyone, regardless of the size of the wallet. Exercise and diet are important for children’s learning and provide a basis for life to come. For the elderly, we can help to gather more into common activity and entertainment. The more we use our heads and keep our body going, the more likely we are to stay healthy. It's a goal to reduce social health inequalities. Therefore, public health work is also education policy, it is employment policy and it is housing policy, to mention something. It's about prevention and it's about knowledge. Soon there will be local elections. It's a great opportunity to talk more about public health work. Maybe we can get some more measures that can push us a little bit more in the right direction, so it's easier to make healthy choices for everyone. Then we might stay fresher, and the health care heroes can still spend time on those who need the community's help the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e4653	The notification is comprehensive and broad, but unfortunately it is economical in its mention of vaccines. Vaccines have been an important measure to protect the population against the spread of infectious diseases, and vaccines and the paediatric vaccination programme itself have been an unconditional success. According to the World Health Organization, measles have been in strong growth in Europe, and the number of people infected has increased by 400 pst. in 2017. The children’s vaccination programme is a right for all children, regardless of socio-economic factors, and there is today a strong break-up of the paediatric vaccination programme. That's good, but we're not going to blind ourselves to the fact that there are changes in the world around us. It means that there is a need for a more active pre-war attitude. Vaccine policy needs to be developed in line with the challenges surrounding us. WHO was well on track to achieve the goal of eradicating measles in Europe in 2010, as we managed with cups in 1979. However, due to the spread of false research and anti-vaccine propaganda, positive developments reversed in 2009. In the past, the Workers' Party has made proposals to investigate and prepare proposals for a statutory body so that municipalities who so wish can put in place a mandatory MMR vaccination scheme. In those cases where children are taken to countries with a high incidence of infection without vaccination, it is serious. It is a risk that is completely unnecessary for the child to be exposed. As well as the fact that health professionals should not pose a health risk to their patients, we believe that child care professionals should also be vaccinated. It is important to remember that the smallest children are not vaccinated. The working party is therefore promoting a number of proposals today to further develop the vaccine policy. We can't stand still in an area that's so important. It should also be borne in mind that today there are gender differences in vaccine programmes. Girls have been given the possibility of a follow-up programme in HPV vaccination, a possibility that the boys have not been given. It's unfair.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e4664	I live on Ashøy, and right now my home and people are standing there in a situation that starts on j and ends with audacity because one of the basic services in the community and something that is fundamental to public health has failed. It's too early to say safely, but perhaps someone has lost something inalienable because of it, and we're all crying with them. This is how the glory of the world goes. Many thousand people are without clean water, and it may feel a little remote from reality to stand here and just talk in such a situation, but it emphasizes how important a pile of paper that the public health message really is. Friends and colleagues are sick. Within me I thank higher powers for being so lucky that my 97-year-old grandmother, my father, who has just been through an operation, my nephews and nieces and my own son get water from somewhere else. This isn't a time to blame. This is not a time to speculate in causes. This is not a time for post-war, and it's not a time for what did we say? It's a time to work hard to figure out what happened, and how we're going to avoid it happening again. It now makes many of my combinations, and they deserve to boast of an effort far beyond normal. At the same time, there is a time to consider how important and of course basic services such as clean water must be and are for us. It should not fail, and fail, it is not that it is a crime, which is the serious thing. That's the human, health, terrible consequences. As I said, the situation shows the importance of public health reporting. I have today sent a question to the current Council of State in order to put pressure on me that we contribute to this not happening again anywhere, or that at least we are doing what we can to avoid it. There may not be any direct connection, but I am pleased that the Council of State has already gone out with an initiative for a proper review throughout the country hours after the question was delivered. We need that. We have challenges. Up to 30 pst. of the drinking water in our pipes disappears many places along the way, and we are facing massive investments across the country. I hope that something good can come out of this. Aftertime is no virtue and changes nothing of what has happened, but learning from the mistakes we have made, and the risk we have not seen is fundamental to getting better and safer. Clean water is central to public health. Clean water is a human right.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e4679	I'm going to say a few words about a field that is crucial to people's well-being: good access to physical activity and the ability to do something about it. First the rug – about obesity and obesity. There are a lot of speakers who have said something about this, and we have a lot of ugly numbers to refer to. I can refer to one of these numbers, taken from Ung-HUNT. 25 pst. by the girls and 27 pst. boys in high school are obese. Those are scary numbers. It is also irrevocably proven and widely accepted that activity acts as a medicine against a number of disorders, diseases and health disorders, as well as physical as mental. And then there's something positive about this, that it's going to be very little more before we get gains of physical activity. We have a kind of national recommendation in about 30 minutes of moderate daily activity, and that gives results. It has a huge effect, and then it's nearby to think of cycling and walking to work as an important, low-hanging fruit. Then we think of transportation, spatial planning and health as a whole. It's better for the environment, it's better for the health, and it's actually a good store. Finally, in its report on social costs in 2015, the Health Directorate has estimated that muscle and skeletal disorders in the population explain 38 pst. of sick leave and costs society 250 billion. kr annually. Vista Analysis made an analysis for Norwegian Outdoor Life and DNT in 2017 where they looked at how much we could gain from a moderate increase in the activity level. They had open-air life in their mind and found out that 80 billion. kr was the result if you got some of the inactive to become a little more active. The government is writing beautiful words that will facilitate activity and activity-friendly environments. Then the question is, how do you do this? Well, the answer to that is still a little bit to wait for, through an action plan for physical activity that is promised this year. It's taken a couple of years to get it out. There are several people who have pointed out the opportunities to get local activity, to get a kind of speaker by outdoor organisations and other organisations that join together locally in the municipalities. It will follow up, and together with the Workers' Party we suggest it. Both the Norwegian Free Air Life, the Free Air Councils National Association and the Norwegian Tourist Association have pointed it out. It could certainly be a thought, and we will therefore propose it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e4692	Public health reports state that both the prevention of loneliness and less social inequalities in health are two of the areas where the government wants to strengthen efforts. Many are out of work for a shorter or longer period due to different health challenges. It's a loss for the individual, but it's also a loss for the community. Our biggest and most expensive public health problem is musculoskeletal and skeletal disorders. Women are overrepresented. 34 pst. in the case of women with disabilities, there is a disease of the muscles and bones. This is one of the greatest health challenges of our time. This has our sufferings, which have a low record in health services, but which are enormously burdensome for the individual, and which cost society dearly. These are among the main single causes of sick leave and non-prevention in the Norwegian people, and the problem is growing. I'm glad that the government has taken action to develop good and holistic patient paths for those who are affected by these typical women's diseases. Through the Norwegian Research Council, research and innovation are funded to be the hallmarks of both high quality and high benefit. One of the most important research programmes is precisely women’s health and gender perspective. Historically, diseases that most affect men have gained much greater attention than diseases where women are in multiples. When the municipalities are about to follow up public health and make their own plans, I hope that we can see again an understanding that men and women's health are different and that they need different measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e4703	If we are to succeed in the policy of the elderly, we must succeed in public health policy. Over the next decades, we will see a sharp increase in the number of older people in Norway. According to the population projection SSB presented in 2018, there will be twice as many over 70 years in 2060, three times as many over 80 years and four times as many over 90 years. This great change in the number of older people is a strong symbol that we're a good society. Of course, there is a connection between the birth of very large children's coals after the war, but it is also an expression of increasing life expectancy. And life is increasing because we live more health-promoting lives -- well, maybe not exactly us, then, president, we who are here to long at night and don't move so much and maybe don't eat so much healthy all the time either. Increased life expectancy is central to the message. There is cross-political agreement on the goal of Norway being among the three world countries with the highest life expectancy. But it's not just about getting as many years as possible, we also want to have as many good years as possible. And we want it to apply to everyone, not just anyone. The difference in life is enormous, depending on where you live, and what kind of work you have. There are social differences in health that we must combat, among other things. with school meals for all and physical activity in school. In politics, we often talk about early efforts, and sometimes it may seem that early efforts only concern children. However, early intervention also applies to the elderly, and it is about taking action early when it is needed. Urban planning and age-friendly communities provide a good basis for a good old age with freedom of movement and opportunities for activity, so that older people can be the boss of their own lives. Social arenas both for the elderly and across generations are important to prevent social isolation among the elderly, and among our main tools in the fight against loneliness. It's the oldest and the youngest who most often report being lonely, and some of the solutions may be across generations. Public health reports take up solitude. I would like to stress that this is on the basis of a proposal that the Labour Party has promoted and received a majority in favour, after first having been voted down in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e4716	There is a lot that could and should have been taken up and talked about in connection with a public health report. It is a whole policy in all areas of society. In this case there are 42 proposals, and it says a little that in the opposition we believe that the message is too little concrete on action. There are important proposals that are not mentioned here today. I can mention very brief measures to limit the use of energy drinks by children, measures to strengthen the role of the voluntary sector in public health work, the fact that young people should not pay for ownership of fixed, adult education, etc. Lowthreshold measures are important, but one must have a policy tool to reduce the main risk factors, which are physical inactivity, unhealthy diets, harmful radiation and harmful use of drugs, tobacco and alcohol. I would like to see that in this message. So to the water problem. In 2017, the Central Party will be tabling a proposal for a sectoral law. There was support from today's opposition, while today's government party had another suggestion, that this should be evaluated. We have now received the answer: this should not be considered anymore – the government does not intend to follow up. That means I'm very sorry. So we're not going to be afterwatching, but I have to be it anyway. Because in 2013 there was a change of government, unfortunately. Then there was an additional setting with the new government. In that additional option, the Right-front party government had cut 15 million. kr on a scheme that we had prioritised in the State budget for 2014, which would support waterworks to comply with the drinking water regulation. There should therefore be a government support scheme to contribute to more knowledge-based management to help municipalities comply with the drinking water regulation – 15 million. kr as one used for tax relief and other things, and in which the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV were strongly disagreed. Then one can come now and say that now we have to get an eye out. But this is no new problem. This has been known for years by the great maintenance system and by the risk of contamination of the water well. We have also been told that the work on infectious diseases is generally poor in the municipalities, and it is a pity that we got a new government in 2014, to put it that way, in many ways.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e4731	Public health is a broad theme. Public health is so widespread that it affects almost all areas of society. That is why I have chosen to strike a blow for the teeth in this case – even though it is so late in the evening that most of us should have brushed their teeth rather than sitting here. In my view, this public health message does not provide a thorough enough treatment of this field. I also believe that dental health is an underestimated field of policy priorities. For dentistry is much more than just teeth. Dental health is also about physical health. And let me take two examples: there's a connection between gum disease periodontitis and cardiovascular diseases that are very serious. And we're talking about the elderly going to know the smell of food in the nursing home. There is also a connection with the challenge some older people may actually have to cope with the food they are going to smell. Good dental health is a prerequisite for good nutrition. There is also a close relationship between dental health and mental health. Being social, being at work, for example. working as a seller, drying to smile at people on the street, is actually also dependent on having a dental health you're proud of. So we know that in this health field, the economy plays an even greater role than it does in very many other health fields. It is expensive for many to take the necessary investments that are needed in their mouths, and therefore there is also a difference between poor and rich – a difference The Labour Party wants to do something about it. That is why last year we promoted a representative proposal to strengthen Norwegian dental health, which was given a majority, the aim of which is to smooth social inequality and help those who cannot afford the necessary dental treatment. The working party is already closing down what may be the largest hole in the welfare state, and has set at 470 million. kr in the year’s budget. Today, the Labour Party has several proposals to focus attention on good dental health and promise that it is also good public health. Unfortunately, these proposals are not supported by the government, and unfortunately there is also a follow-up to the constraints we have seen in several areas from today's government on dental health. It is so late in the evening that it may not be realistic to believe that government parties are going to wake up tonight when it comes to dental health, but I have a hope that even the government parties will more readily acknowledge that good dental health is also good public health. So we should raise this field higher than it has now been done.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e4746	Women and men with short-term education can today expect to live five to six years shorter than those with long-term education. In Oslo, the difference in life expectancy is up to eight years between the districts. Between different municipalities in Norway, there may be up to 12 years of difference in life expectancy, and people with severe mental and drug problems live up to 20 years shorter than the rest of the population. Even so, solitude is considered a risk, in line with obesity, smoking and lack of physical activity. Smoking is the main single cause of people dying early in Norway. Smoking is also the main cause of social health differences. Even if only 12 pst. by our residents, there are as many as 24 pst. of those who only have primary school, who smoke, while only 5 pst. by those with higher education smokes. In addition, those with high levels of education are more physically active and generally have a healthier diet. We find socio-economic differences for non-infectious diseases such as cancer, coal, cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, muscle and skeletal disorders and mental disorders. The main risk causes are alcohol, tobacco, lack of physical activity and unhealthy diets. All the elements are active choices that humans make. We choose whether to smoke or not, we choose whether to be physically active or not. Some try to blame the government, but social health inequalities have increased over many years. In 2007, i.e. under the red-green government, a ten-year national strategy to balance social health inequalities was promoted. The strategy did not work satisfactorily because the differences increased. However, the strategy worked to increase the knowledge and awareness of social health differences, which is also important, but without reducing health differences. The government has already launched a series of measures that will reduce social disparities. Strengthening efforts to crack the reading code at primary school help to prevent drop-outs from high school, health centres and school health services have been strengthened over the last years, and the introduction of package pathways in a number of diagnostic areas, not least for people struggling with alcohol and psychiatry, will contribute to increasing average life expectancy and reducing social health inequalities. Cooperation with industry to reduce the content of salt and sugar in food will reduce the number of people dying from non-infectious diseases. The reform Life throughout life has, among other things, as a goal of improving the quality of life and reducing the entrepreneurship of older people. The integration promise will bring more immigrants into the labour market, which will also help reduce social health inequalities. So the government is implementing a series of measures to reduce social health inequalities, but we still have a long way to go before we can eliminate them. In addition, there are several examples of methods to reduce the differences in Chapter 4 of the notification.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e4766	We cannot be stressed enough that many of the prerequisites for living a long and good life are laid in the child's first year of life and beyond through kindergarten and school. A good growth has a direct impact on a good life as an adult. We tend to say that a good crop lasts life, but a bad one can do it too. For us, therefore, the most important public health effort is what we do for the youngest of us. The health policy of the left is primarily public health policy. We want more prevention, early effort, quality in kindergartens, a good school with a focus on lifelong learning, a strong family protection, etc. Where other parties are fighting for the greatest possible growth in hospitals, we are fighting for resources for prevention in the municipalities. We have done a lot in this field, together with the Christian People's Party, the Right Party and the Advance Party. Now we're going to work on it. We have had a historic escalation for the school health services and health centres, a doubling of midwives in municipalities, a strengthened family protection, psychologists in all municipalities, a leave scheme that ensures safe connection with both mother and father, more quality in kindergartens and free offers to families who need it, more grant schemes that benefit from volunteering, a stepping-up plan for children and young people's mental health, with promises of increased appropriations in the years to come. The list could be made longer – leisure cards, e.g. No, it's not sad that we got a replacement from the government in 2013, as the representative Toppe suggests. But, psychopathic disorders cost society $290 billion. kr per year. These are updated figures from the Health Directorate measured in terms of disease burden, health costs and production losses. 290 billion a year! Psychiatric diseases thrones at the top and are our most expensive disease, in front of muscle and skeletal disorders and cancer. So why is Left so concerned with the first few years? Well, that is because research on the importance of a safe connection is quite unambiguous. If we succeed in this, we succeed in much. Knowledge of the costs of those who have experienced violence, abuse and sexual abuse is well known. The left takes this knowledge seriously. Building a team around all the children and their families is the most economical thing we can do. We also know that good kindergartens are the most important place a child can develop healthy and get caught up and helped if care at home is not good enough, or directly harmful. So there are two things that are important to really improve the mental health of the population: it's helping all families to work well, almost costing what it costs, and we need to have kindergartens that are really good. This greatly increases the chance of fewer mental disorders, but also somatic diseases, later in life. The question is not whether we can afford it, the question is whether it is too expensive not to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e4781	Public health is an important topic that should be discussed perhaps even more often, good life in a secure society. Yes, we all live in a municipality, in a village and a branch where we live our lives. Life-style diseases are spreading only more and more, related to mental health challenges, diabetes, obesity and not least skeletal and muscle diseases. This is about inactivity, about diet, about sugar, about tobacco, about loneliness, and it is about what means we want to take to counter the negative trend we are seeing in these areas today. One might well say that the government does not have very big ambitions, at least not on its own behalf, through this message. A good motto is that one has to add the list so high that one can go straight under, we say in the Orchid. That's a good motto. It's about having ambitions on behalf of those who live in the countryside, those who live in our society. The government's defensive attitude in this area may well be more comparable to adding stumble threads instead of adding the list high. As a member of the Education Committee, I have, together with the Committee, had the opportunity to travel around both kindergartens and schools and to look at good actions, where physical activity has been introduced in school, where school food has been introduced, good diets, which have strengthened these communities – in kindergartens and in schools – and that education has improved, that students' interests have improved, that young people have become more active, and that one acquires knowledge in an even better way. The government – which does not want to support school food for all, does not want to have more physical activity – they oppose this and increase the differences in society, they say instead that no, we want to spend the money on tax cuts for those who have a lot from before. We can afford to introduce this, instead of pointing out that there should be parental payments here, and instead of implementing the tax policy that this government is putting up with. We live longer and that's good, but there's a big difference in life, both in Oslo and between the different districts. But it's not about adding more years to life, it's about adding more good years to life. It's the most important thing that people have good lives around. Urban outdoors: I am so lucky to live along Akerselva and use the area at Akerselva almost every day to go. There are many great places where urban outdoors can be organised, which help balance differences, which are free of charge. That is why it is important for us as elected representatives – here in the Stortinget, but also in the region and in the municipality – to organise well so that people can participate in the activities that are organised.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e4796	This government has a lot to be proud of, both in facilitating better childhood, in facilitating the completion of higher education — which is incredibly important for the quality of life of the young people involved — and in many other areas. They have been arranged for bullying agents, and many factors have been taken into account that have an impact on good growth. This is also the starting point for good public health. I would like to comment on the article by the representative Tom-Christen Nilsen, who lives on Askøy. It made a strong impression on me. It also has the many stories that have come in the media in recent days – stories from people who are afraid and worried about their children, and people who have experienced a terrible situation. I have been in contact with both the rapporteur and the rapporteur in Askøy, and I have assured him that we want to deal with the situation in which they are. Both the Public Health Institute and the Food Authority have been there to deal with the situation, and that was a good thing for the municipality. On Monday, I'm going to meet both the municipality and the local population, and I look forward to learning more about the situation that the municipality is in, which is obviously very difficult. I would like to comment on the SV's proposal for an overview of how many people get sick by the water. We're already in the process of doing that. The Institute for Public Health is carrying out a comprehensive monitoring of the burden of disease on drinking water in Norway. The results of that work will be available in 2020. The risk and vulnerability analysis, as I mentioned earlier, is also soon clear from the Health Directorate, and then we get an update on it. So this is a matter that the government over several years has been concerned about following up. It is the municipalities in Norway that are responsible for clean water, and I think it is a paradox that many municipalities print property taxes without neglect, while investing in the necessary infrastructure in the water sector seems to be in a longer position. This is a service you pay for through a fee that is earmarked for the purpose. I must honestly say that I think most people will agree that paying for clean water is good. With regard to the concern of the representative Kjerkol that several municipalities do not have a spare water solution, I share it. What worries me the most is that the Municipality of Oslo, which is the largest municipality in Norway and its capital, is among those who lack this. I can assure you that the Swedish Food Safety Authority will follow the municipality closely, so that this will be put in place. Finally, I would like to say that I think this has been a good debate, and I am pleased that we are united and agree on many points.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e4813	Yes, we're gathered on the overall goals, but we're separating our paths, because the social differences in health are increasing. As the representative of Erlend Larsen pointed out, we did something about this by having a strategy when the Workers' Party put in government – unlike today's government parties, which are going to vote down the Workers' Party's proposal to do something concrete about the social differences in health. It's well documented that it's the broad universal arrangements that can do something about the social differences in health. The message is speculated with beautiful words, even about investing in universal services and actions, but when it comes to action, it stops. Today, we have heard the Council of State stand here defending a school food system that costs up to $15,000 a year for parents with three children. It is pointed at the Escalation Level for children and the mental health of young people, but we got the answer a few days ago. It is also filled with beautiful words, but no commitments or promises of funds. Finally, I would like to give an explanation of vote on some of the SV's proposals. We support proposal No. 40, 40, 40, 40, 40, 40, 40, 40, 40, 40, 40, 40, 40, Proposal No. 41 we believe that it is not natural to support, given that this is an area supported by the principle of self-sufficiency, and that our proposal for a technology programme in the water sector responds to precisely these challenges. As regards proposal No: 42, on a separate big message, we believe that it is precisely in the context of the message we are debating here today, the public health report, that it is right to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e4824	I'm sorry to be late for the debate. The discussion about water is important. It's about to grow a little bit above our heads, whether it's in an altitude pool that has bacteria, or it's floods, or it's like last summer when it was dry. This poses major financial challenges for many municipalities, but not least it poses major challenges in terms of competence and resources. In fact, today's majority have done a lot in the water sector in recent years, so what Kjersti Toppe says about us needing a government shift is not right. The revised national budget allocated 2.5 million. kr to start-up and pre-project of a national competence centre for management technology at NMBU at Ås, followed by 17,5 million. kr from the government in the revised budget in 2018 – together quite a lot of money. There was supposed to be a spice layer between the supplier industry and the municipalities, and we probably have to ask ourselves whether the municipalities have been able to follow up. I think Norsk Vann has nothing to do with collecting money from the municipalities. It's actually been the same challenge since Norsk Water set up a recruitment program and training program for engineers. It is the municipalities that are struggling to follow up. There are many who introduce property taxes, but who don't care so much about that fee, as the Council of State Sylvi Listhaug points out quite correctly. Where taxes on property are introduced, fees are levied on water and sewerage. This is a priority that the municipalities have to do. They cannot, like Ski Municipality, turn off the lights, lock the door and leave this challenge to consultants. That competence must exist in the municipalities, unless we actually have to look at whether there are any other actors who will be responsible for that task in Norway. There are so many challenges, and so much competence is required that you should actually look at whether to organise them in the new counties or in other ways, in order to gather the resources into a large force. There is also a national water guard, a preparedness and competence that can just support the municipalities, and I think the municipality of Askøy is happy that the national water guard is now in place. Climate change rate is also established. 200 million. kr is granted in 2019 for projects in the municipalities. Some of them are also about water and sewerage and using new technologies. Innovation in the public sector receives 100 million. kr in these days, and part of those programmes are also part of this programme. We can also go to the education page, because there are soon no Norwegian colleges that have education in water and sewerage. The municipalities almost do not have apprentices in this sector, and in high school chemistry and process, there are almost no students. So we have a big challenge all over the line. I have taken the initiative of a water group here at Stortinget, I did it in the last period, and I felt quite alone. So it's time we got a little wake-up. Unfortunately, there had to be another scandal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e4843	The representative Kjeseth is absolutely right. Water and responsibility for water are growing above our heads. That's why we also have to take a national responsibility for water quality, not just leave this to the municipalities. The current pace of replacement in the mains is too slow. It will take over a hundred years at the pace of the day before we replace it. An interest-rate compensation scheme, proposed by SV in its alternative government budget over the last three years, would have helped to advance this replacement and made us more confident that water will only do good for the body, even in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e4848	Although the representative Haltbrecken and the undersigned agree on water-related challenges, we may not fully agree on what measures to put in place. It's not just about the state having to grant money, as it's regulated today. The sewage and sewage treatment plant law is probably almost as old as a good part of the pipelines we have, so it's enough time to upgrade. I also think it's a good idea to look at a sector law to bring together some of the challenges we've connected to regulating this, because it actually deals with the vast majority of departments, and it's demanding for a sector to knock on all those doors. But this is a structural challenge, and when the representative Haltbrecken says it will take us a hundred years to renovate: yes, as today's municipalities are organized, it will take us enormously many years. It is almost inconvenient to consider that this will happen with the current resource situation in the municipalities, also considering how they do not currently give much priority to acquiring skills or keeping up the pace of fees in order to obtain the money needed. Therefore, we may also have to look at how we will organise these services in the future in order to keep up with the challenges we face. This is, in fact, a process industry that currently operates in the Norwegian municipal sector, which we are uncertain about having there. And especially when the wages in the North Sea process industry are three to four times higher than they are in the municipal sector, there is no doubt about where the resources are going. It's also one of the challenges we're facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e4857	The representative Kjersti Toppe has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e4862	I shall only give a brief explanation of vote on the proposals from SV. We are voting in favour of a big message. We understand mapping is going on, and when it's going to be a debt to get an interest-rate compensation scheme, we think it has to work out at least, so we won't support it today. But this can be discussed in a big message. For the last speaker: we may not be aware that the municipal structure is the reason why it is poor water quality. Now it is the second largest municipality in Hordaland that has problems, and Bergen had problems in 2004. But I agree with the need for a sectoral law. It's just so sad that the Left doesn't vote for it in the Storing.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e4869	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e4881	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting. Before voting, the representative of Aasland asked for the floor for a brief explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e4888	There is an explanation of vote which the Labour Party needs to give to case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox The Workers' Party is in favour of the ban on fur farming, in line with the government's proposal. I would therefore urge the representatives of the Workers' Party to vote in favour of Section 1, which confirms a ban on the keeping of fur animals, as well as § 2, § 4 and § 5. The Workers' Party has in the suspension made its own proposal for § 3, which legislates the right to compensation. But according to the debate, there is reason to believe that the Labour Party's proposals will not be given a majority. If the Workers' Party's publishing house falls to the new section 3, I would recommend the Workers' Party's representatives to vote against the title of the law and the law as a whole – this to indicate that we believe the law should contain a legal right to compensation. This means that we are in favour of the legal ban itself, and we do not want to make any comments on the bill when it comes to the second reading. I would also recommend that the representatives of the Workers' Party vote in favour of the SV's proposal, No. 6-11.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e4903	During the debate, Nils Kristen Sandtrøen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the introduction of a mandatory ID marking of reindeer pending a comprehensive revision of the reindeer management law. In this context, the government asks the question of the extent to which a mandatory ID marking will be mandatory for traditional Sami reindeer farming and culture.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e4969	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e4981	It was not registered here!
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e4986	Let's do the voting again.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e4999	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e5013	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e5022	A total of 16 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Terje Aasland on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party proposal No 2, from Terje Aasland on behalf of the Workers' Party the proposals No 3-5, from Geir Pollestad on behalf of the Centre Party the proposals No 6-13, from Torgair Knag County, on behalf of SV proposal No 14, from Une Bastholm on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA proposal No 15, from Morten Ørsal Johansen on behalf of Right, Party of Advancement, Left and Christian People's Party proposal No 16, from Terje Aasland on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party Proposal No. 16 were withdrawn during the debate. There is a vote on proposal No. 14, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that the compensation schemes for the fur industry are designed in such a way that they provide incentives for the rapid phasing-out and the closure of the fur stock rather than full operation until 2025.’ Socialist Left Party and Red have announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e5063	There is a vote on proposal No. 6, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for compensation for the real value of the installations by adding the estimated residual value of the assets instead of the book value.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e5080	There is a vote on proposal No. 7, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to compensate for all the costs associated with the demolition and clean-up of installations used for fur animal husbandry, where pre-delivery sorting is required.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e5097	There is a vote on proposal No. 8, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests compensation for loss of income for up to three years for safe fur farmers who do not come to work.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e5114	There is a vote on proposal No. 9, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government requests compensation for loss of income up to the retirement age of 67 years for livestock farmers who will be over 62 years of age in 2025 and who do not come to work.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e5132	There is a vote on proposal No. 10, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a case to be brought back in the autumn of 2020 to account for the social and economic consequences of the closure decision on fur animal nutrition, and for proposals for measures to correct adverse outcomes. The matter shall also illustrate the implications for the pension of breeders.’;» The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e5149	There is a vote on proposal No. 11, from the Socialist Left Party. ‘The government asks the government to ensure that no livestock farmers remain in debt related to the plant after the closure.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e5166	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 12 and 13 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asked to complete the compensation scheme for fur breeders and to make it available during the autumn of 2019 so that farmers can start the conversion process. In addition, the government must follow up its promise to contact the municipalities where fur is the most farmed, in order to contribute to additional conversion measures for the areas where winding-up occurs the most.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to carry out an investigation with a view to imposing a ban on the importation of fur after the introduction of the prohibition on the cultivation of fur animals.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e5190	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3-5, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks that the holding of fur animals should continue to be legal in Norway in line with the decision of the Stortinget January 2017’.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to provide full compensation to the fur farmers and other actors affected by the ban on nutrition and to measure the compensation on the basis of expropriation principles.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to implement the measures to enhance animal welfare in the fur animal industry adopted by the Storting in January 2017’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e5217	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The Government is asked to submit a new legislative proposal introducing a ban on the husbandry of fur animals from 1 February 2025 and proposing a provision for compensation based on compensation as if it were an act of expropriation.» The Central Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e5298	It is contested by §§ 1, 2, 4 and 5. The central party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e5312	Alternatively, between Section 3 of the adjustment and Proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 3 is replaced by the following: § 3 Replacement Breeders covered by Section 2 are entitled to compensation from the State for financial loss as a result of the liquidation as if it were an expropriation operation. The Ministry shall prescribe the detailed arrangements for such compensation and for conversion grants.» The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced support for the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e5336	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Labour Party and the Senter Party have notified us that we are voting against.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e5350	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. There is a vote on proposal No. 15, from the Right, the Party of Advancement, the Left, and the Christian Party. ‘The size asks the government to adhere closely to the compensation scheme and expects the scheme to be adjusted if there are unreasonable results in the overall measurement of compensation, including the compensation for the book value of non-realisable capital, to individual operators relating to the liquidation of business. The size is kept informed on how the scheme will be adjusted in the light of this situation.» The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e5389	Three proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Ruth Grung on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party proposal No 2, from Ruth Grung on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No 3, from Torgeira Knag County on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government requests complementing the traffic light system with the indicators emission of faeces, the release of drugs, and the evacuation of farmed salmon. No new authorisation or increase in production shall be granted until the traffic light system holds these indicators as a basis for production adjustment.» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e5418	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Prop. 95 L Amendments to the Aquaculture Act are sent back to the Government.’ [[2018–2019]] [[adaptation of production for environmental reasons]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e5433	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. ‘The government asks the government to design the exemption in Section 12 of the Production Area Regulation to give a clear advantage to those who over time are able to keep a low level of lice.’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e5479	The Labour Party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e5491	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Labour Party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e5505	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e5514	A total of 12 proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1-12, from Arne Nävra on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4, 6-8 and 11, of the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to make proposals to clarify the school’s responsibility for the safety of children at school in the Training Act.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government requests to make traffic training a mandatory part of the kindergarten framework.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up a national map of school roads as a basis for spatial planning in the municipalities and counties.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to introduce a national requirement that all children should be able to ride safely to school, as a guide for municipal and county spatial planning.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to reduce the normal speed limit in densely populated areas from the current 50 km/h to 40 km/h and to 30 km/h in mixed traffic and around schools and kindergartens.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e5556	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1–3, 5, 9, 10 and 12, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for Barna’s transport plan to provide an updated national action plan with new concrete measures and initiatives that prioritise the consideration of children and young people in the transport system over car traffic and the construction of new motorways. Missing pedestrian and pedestrian roads, pavements and pedestrian areas must be given priority over the construction of new motorways.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to establish an action programme for safe school roads with a separate grant scheme for safe school roads in the municipality.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to establish a national standard for car-free zones around all schools.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to require three-point belts in all school pillows purchased by county municipalities.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: «The government is asked to take the initiative, develop and stimulate schemes of activity kissing with emission-free transport after school for children and young people.» Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government asks to stimulate and reward cities and municipalities with agglomerations that convert streets with street parking to playgrounds and balloons, remove street parking in the centre and residential areas and convert former street areas into green oasis’.» Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to extend the limit on public transport tickets from 16 to 18 years of age.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e5613	The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e5629	A total of 16 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, from Kirsti Leirtrø on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 2-10, from Arne Nävra on behalf of the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 11–16, from Une Bastholm on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA There is a vote on proposal No. 15. from the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size requests the government to increase the limit of assistance from the engine for unregistered electric bicycles from 25 km/h to 30 km/h.’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e5655	There is a vote on proposal No. 12 from the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for proposals to increase government funding for large-scale collective projects in metropolitan areas to 80 per cent.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e5672	There is a vote on proposal No. 11. from the Greens/Greens/EFA. ‘The government is asking for proposals to replace the zero growth target in transport policy with a target of 5 per cent annual reductions in car traffic in metropolitan areas from today’s level.’ The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e5689	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 13, 14 and 16, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to revise current road standards and traffic rules in order to prioritize corridors, bicycles and micro-mobility.’ Proposal No. 14 reads: ‘The government is asking for the promotion of an electric micro-mobility package for personal transport and freight transport.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a reduction of all major tunnel and bridge projects in national transport plans from four-field roads to two- and three-field roads with pass-by fields and river ferries instead of bridges, in order to avoid major natural interference, increased traffic and emissions, and enormous toll costs.’ The Socialist Left and Red have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e5715	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6 and 7 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to make proposals to allow municipalities to regulate parking on private grounds and to introduce a reward scheme for municipalities that reduce urban and agglomeration parking.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The size calls on the government in planning the next national transport plan to prioritise micromobility in a conversion to a significantly higher share more energy efficient, electrified, road safety, land and resource efficient personal transport and freight transport in Norway.’ [[NTP 2022-2033]] The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e5740	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2–5, 8 and 10, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the introduction of sustainable mobility as a general principle in the current and future national transport plan, in order to give priority to public transport, walking, cycling and micro-mobility over car traffic in major cities.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for capacity-enhancing motorway projects that contribute to increasing passenger car transport in areas where the objective is zero growth in passenger car traffic.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to propose setting a target of five pst. annual reduction in car traffic in metropolitan areas by revision of urban environment agreements/urban growth agreements.’;» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to establish a reward scheme for metropolitan municipalities that reduce car traffic.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to promote as soon as possible a comprehensive national policy on the rental, sharing and parking of electric bicycles on public land, promoting such sharing services without creating any conflict or insecurity in traffic.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asked to initiate, develop and stimulate schemes of pick-up, meg-buses with zero-emission transport in order to meet passengers’ real door-to-door transport needs in a timely manner and to sew together optimal driving routes continuously.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e5785	There is a vote on proposal No. 9, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asking the Government to submit soon proposals on the basis of the Road Traffic Act so that municipalities can regulate the rental of electric bicycles on public land. Municipalities must be allowed to impose requirements on the parking/removal of electric kicking cycles, to require municipal authorisation for the use of municipal land and to impose requirements on the quality, safety and durability of kicking cycles.» The Central Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e5802	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for proposals to increase the State funding of large-scale collective projects in metropolitan areas to 70 pst.’ The Greens and Reds have announced subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e5826	Behind the setting are the Right, Advance Party, Left and Christian People's Party. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e5872	The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e5884	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e5898	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e5908	A total of 42 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: the proposals No 1-25, from Elise Björnebeck-Waagen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 26–34, from Elise Björnebeck-Waaagen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 35-38, from Elise Bjørnebeck-Waaagen on behalf of the Workers' Party the proposals No 39 to 42, from Sheida Sangtarash on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 42, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is making a big announcement on drinking water supply in Norway, in the light of the challenges we face with a worn-out management system and increasing climate change.’ The Central Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e5940	There is a vote on proposal No. 41, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit a proposal for an interest-rate compensation scheme in the State budget for 2020 enabling municipalities to increase the speed of the replacement of drinking water and sewerage systems in Norway.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e5957	There is a vote on proposal No. 40, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a full monitoring of the quality of drinking water in Norway to provide an overview of the number of people who get sick from drinking water and the number at risk of getting sick if the rate of replacement of the mains does not increase.’ The Labour Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e5974	There is a vote on proposal No. 39, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for an assessment of the transferability of orthodontics to the public, in order to reduce large, unsocial costs for individual families.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e5991	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 37 and 38, from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 37 sounds: ‘The Government is asked by the Government to make provision for nutritional purposes for the public sector, in line with the dietary councils in food and drink calls, by following the nutritional criteria of the Directorate of Health.’; Proposal No. 38 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for a ban on flavouring in snuffs and e-cigarettes.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e6016	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 35 and 36, from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 35 sounds: ‘The government asks for a legal basis to ensure that parents of unvaccinated children can be refused to take the child to a country where the risk of infection is high.’ Proposal No. 36 sounds: ‘The government requests the introduction of a compulsory vaccine for nursery workers.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e6040	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 26–34, from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The government is asking for voluntary action in general and for the further development of children’s and young people’s rights by providing free loans for public facilities and schools for sports activities for children and young people under 18 years of age.’ Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a coordination model to provide young people with a comprehensive digital trajectory from low-threshold health-promoting information services to full-scale digital healthcare.’ Proposal No. 28 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to strengthen funding for school health services and health centres, including the designation of funds for the service for the entire school cycle during an escalation period.’ Proposal No. 29 sounds: «The government is asking the government to establish a low-threshold mental health service for children, young people and families in all municipalities. The measures can be implemented through the establishment of the family house and/or other easily accessible services. Services must be multi-disciplinary and cross-disciplinary in order to ensure good and complete services for children, young people and families.» Proposal No. 30 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to remove the excess of children under the age of 18 from a physiotherapist’. Proposal No. 31 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up a new cross-sectoral action plan with concrete cohesion objectives in order to reduce social health inequalities.’ Proposal No. 32 sounds: ‘The government asks it to set up a system to measure quality of life, in line with the recommendations in the report ‘Good life in Norway’.’» Proposal No. 33 sounds: ‘The government is asked to take action to increase the recruitment of health professionals with special competence for problems of abuse and the ability to detect violence in close relationships.’ Proposal No. 34 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose models for local nature and outdoor councils in the municipalities.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e6100	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1–4 and 6–25, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The size calls on the government to submit proposals for an action plan for physical activity for the Storting and to address concrete measures and objectives to reduce inactivity in the population and to achieve the 2025 target of a reduction in the proportion of inactive children and young people by 10 pst. The action plan must include the implementation of the Stortinge’s goal of one hour of physical activity in school every day.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to provide a report on student health.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the strengthening of the midwifery service with several annual works, based on full positions, in order to ensure good maternity and maternity care.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to establish a learning network/development centre for health station and school health services.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to set up a public body to develop a NOW on health inequalities and social health inequalities, with concrete balancing objectives and actions.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to eliminate the excess of the majority of the members of the board of directors of young people up to the age of 18 years’. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up a cross-ministerial action plan on good health in the migrant population and equivalent access to health and care services.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking for further public health services to include dental services and to facilitate good contact and interaction between dental services and the rest of the healthcare system.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asking for clarification on how to strengthen and expand the public dentistry so that it has the capacity to receive far more than it currently has.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a price cap for dental treatments fully or partially refunded by the public, where reimbursement rates must be perceived as predictable both for patients and dental professionals.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that new guidelines for the treatment of osteoporosis are developed by the government [[leg resistance]] Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up a new binding action plan against violence in close relations.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up a new escalation plan against violence and abuse.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asked to develop a new national strategy against antibiotic resistance when the current strategy expires next year.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit annual status reports to the Storting on the global and national work against antibiotic resistance development and prevalence of antibiotic resistance in Norway.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government is asked to propose its own sectoral law on water and sewerage.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a programme of technology development in the water sector.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government requests the introduction of a HPV recovery programme for boys.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government is asking for new financial instruments, including new reimbursement schemes/tariffs for health promotion and prevention efforts in the primary and specialist health services for individual and grouped offers.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up an action plan for day-to-day rehabilitation in the primary health service, for example linked to the follow-up of residents with visual, auditory or speech problems.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The size calls on the government to explore instruments and to promote a proposal for the Storting with measures to limit the use of energy drinks by children’. Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to withdraw proposals for a national tobacco strategy and to promote a new tobacco strategy with more ambitious objectives and concrete proposals for action to achieve a tobacco-free generation of young people and to submit this strategy appropriately to the Grand Duchy.’ Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The size request that proposals for a national alcohol strategy be submitted to the Storting in an appropriate manner.’ Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to promote the necessary measures to ensure a more important role for the voluntary sector in the implementation of public health measures and to provide appropriate information to the size of the population. Public health programmes must systematically cooperate with local teams and associations and voluntary action must be ensured in order to ensure predictable and stable financial support schemes.’.» The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e6238	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to be open so that the health care provider can refer to the BUP.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-13.ana.ud497e6284	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
