ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e25	The representatives Martin Kolberg, Hadia Tajik and Tage Pettersen, who have been licensed, have once again taken their seats. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e52	The President proposes that the allocated speaking time be limited to 3 hours and 30 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 50 minutes, Right 50 minutes, Advance Party 30 minutes, Center Party 20 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Left 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Green Party 5 minutes and Red 5 minutes. In addition, up to seven members of the government are given 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, eight lines be given, with replies from the main speakers of the parties. The President will also propose that there be an opportunity for a succession of up to 12 lines with replies from the Prime Minister and up to eight lines with replies from other members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e65	I'll be brief. – Let me congratulate the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party on having formed an expanded right-wing government. The Granavolden platform is new, that the Christian People's Party is in government is new, but this political project is not new. The Declaration of Government, and not least the orderly political platform, is a recognisable right-wing policy. I think Siv Jensen is right when she has said several times in the last few weeks that it is now over that the policy of the Progress Party will be put to the vote in the Grand Duchy, now it is the majority of this policy. She's right. The Christian People's Party and the Left now ensure a majority for a policy of more privatisation of the welfare of the community, which will lead to increased disparities — in total, a policy that changes Norway. The Right Party and the Progressive Party now have a majority in favour of a tax policy with great cuts for those who already have the most. We'd rather give a million Northmen the right to earned pension from the first penny from the first day they work, so they have a pension to live on when they get old. The Right Party and the Progressive Party are now given a majority in favour of a policy designed ‘to allow private operators to compete for the provision of publicly funded services where it makes sense’. Some have said that reason is a lonely thing – what makes sense? There is no difference in sales of goods and services and treatment in a nursing home in the application of the principles of the Progress Party. Market supply and demand will determine, in almost absolute terms, all public activities today — hospitals, schools, care for the elderly. With this government, the growth in private schools will continue. With this government, the privatisation of hospitals will continue. With this government, the privatisation of care for the elderly will continue. We can do better. The Labour Party will instead be investing in quality and enough people in the care of the elderly, cheaper kindergarten and school food for all children. With this government, people will have to pay more to be organized and to withstand temporaryity and insecurity. We have a passive government facing social dumping. The Labour Party will have mobilisation for a decent working life – in countries and municipalities. This is the main picture: more power of the Right and the Advance Party in the areas of economics, well-being and working life – so important in the everyday lives of ordinary people. That this policy now has a majority with the Christian People's Party is a paradox and regrettable. The Labour Party believes that Norway can improve — another direction — that we can jointly solve the most important tasks together and contribute to a more equitable and warmer society. We should not just set goals, but pursue a policy that reduces greenhouse gas emissions, not be careful with neutral industrial policies, but really bet on those areas where we have natural advantages. Low pediatric prices, cancer drugs available to everyone, a fixed system that also works in the districts, policemen at work near you, and courts that have the resources to do the work of the judiciary — there are examples of community solutions that give people more security and power over their own lives. It's about people's everyday lives. There are then few areas that intervene as directly in human life as the policy of biotechnology and the right to self-determined abortion. That is why it is so provocative that the Right Party and the Advance Party, in order to secure power, have restricted women's rights and agreed to freeze the Biotechnology Act and veto further development. They tighten self-determination in the abortion law for the first time since the law came. It says no to lifesaving knowledge that we could get through early ultrasound, no to NIPT tests for several pregnant women, no to egg donation and no to assisted conception for lonely. More women and couples who strongly want children, now lose that opportunity, despite the fact that there is a broad majority for it on the Stortinget. Some will then travel abroad and pay for treatment; others will not be able to afford it. So we're back where we started: this is a government for increasing differences. This is a platform that weakens the community and the opportunities we have together to give everyone, not just a few, more power and freedom in their own lives. The Labour Party will meet the government with a clear and objective opposition, promote our own proposals, find together with the parties in the Stortinget who want a different course, and who always, wherever possible, have the will to contribute to good, common solutions for the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e93	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e98	I don't know if the representative Støre sees it himself, but he starts his post by saying that this is a new government platform that is almost a copy of the old one, and that it is pure Right and Advance Party policy, and then he uses much of the article to talk about the breakthroughs of the Christian People's Party. Ergo is no particular consistency in what Mr. Støre says, just as in his own series there is at least a lack of coherence and consistency in two important pillars of the Norwegian economy, namely the oil and gas refuelling system, i.e. stable framework conditions for the Norwegian energy industry, where the West and environmentalist Barth Eide want to change this, while Mr. Schjøtt-Pedersen says that one should keep it. At the same time, we see a debate in the LO and the Workers' Party on changing or scrapping the EEA Agreement. How happy – on a scale from 1 to 10 – is it that we have a government statement and four government parties that are crystal clear to maintain predictable frameworks and the EEA Agreement, when in his own ranks there is so much uncertainty?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e105	I'm living on a different scale, but I'm happy that this in the Storting is a broad majority that ensures stable framework conditions for the oil and gas industry, and that companies can use good technology to search and find resources in Norway. It's the Workers' Party behind it, it's in our program, and we're the guarantor of it. I am pleased that there is a broad majority here in the Stortingen for an EEA agreement, which ensures Norway access to a large market, and which allows us to be safe within the legal framework of a world where several countries seek out cooperation. Then I am very happy that there is debate at the bottom of our democracy, and I am not afraid of it. I would like to welcome it. There may be a debate on oil policy and climate. There may be debates on how to establish European cooperation. There could be a debate about how we want to have the direction of society. And I think -- in my post I'm talking about the direction of society -- that the Christian People's Party could be influenced in a different direction if they had made a different choice. I respect the choice they have made, but there is a government where the Right and Advance Party set the direction for the important course for Norway, and that is what I explained in my post.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e112	I am pleased that Støre is pleased that the government is committed to important elements of Norwegian policy, and that the Workers' Party joins it, at least now. At the same time, we see that the measurements are Red, the Environmental Party of Greens, SV and the Center Party as large as the Working Party together. That means that any Big Government is completely dependent on the support of these parties. They could have significant influence. Then we see that the only thing that these parties agree on is to throw the government of Solberg. They don't agree on common direction. It's cracking. The centre party criticises green taxes, while SV, Red, the Green Party and the Labour Party will go in the opposite direction. SV, Red and the Environment Party The Greens will build a smaller road, while the Senter Party will oppose it. SV and Red will liberalise immigration policy, while the Centre Party will tighten up. The centre party will shoot more wolves, while the SV, the Red and the Green Party will go in the opposite direction. The centre party, Red and SV say no to the EEA agreement, while the Workers' Party says they are behind it. This gap – how will the representative Støre characterize it when it comes to government negotiations? Isn't that a complete chaos?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e121	I am pleased that the representative of Greece is pleased to refer to polls [[muttering in the hall]] On the main thrust of Norwegian society, on governance of the economy, on responsible economic policies and the responsibility of the community, there is broad consensus in this opposition. The Labour Party has shown, as the Right now shows, that we can find compromises with other parties to take responsibility for the country. I believe that the representative of Greece should concentrate on his own diversity in the government, so the Labour Party must ensure that we have a policy for our party, which can take responsibility. We should be able to show the voters in 2021 that if this government loses the majority, a new majority will be able to take responsibility for the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e128	I am pleased that this debate starts in such an optimistic and positive tone, but the question to Støre is, in fact, whether he recognises – or admits – that an alternative to the current government is that he has to seek support from parties such as Red and the Greens, which have a completely different approach to value creation, to EU cooperation, to EEA cooperation, etc. Does this mean that Støre now acknowledges and accepts that the Greens and the Greens would be part of his parliamentary basis if he had to take over?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e133	I am not pleased that the party representing Greece has chosen, as the only party in the Nordic region, to enter into binding government cooperation with the outside right – and the Right is, after all, marked by it in economic policy and in a wide range of other areas. It is too early to wonder what will become a government base in 2021, but I have respect for the voters who say that the course this government is taking is wrong. Norway does not make use of its options. We're changing our society. Differences are increasing. We're not doing enough to bring down the greenhouse gas emissions. We're not doing enough to clean up the work force. So we'll see as we approach 2021. I am sure that a new majority will have a strong Workers' Party, and then we will be able to take responsibility for another course for the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e140	The Progress Party has had a positive impact on cutting property taxes down to 4 per million. This means that 108 municipalities have to cut the property tax. We believe that people's housing should be a home and not a treasure item. Owning your own home is an important value in Norwegian society. Property taxes are one of the most unsocial taxes, which hit most of those that have the least. The record number of municipalities is on the ROBEK list. It goes well in Kommune-Norge as well. Nevertheless, many places experience that the Workers' Party is at the forefront of punishing its own citizens with more taxes on the family's home. In Arbeiderparti-steeled Oslo, you go with $2.50. kr in profit. Without a property tax, you would still have gone with 2.1 billion. kr in profit, this despite the waste of money over a low shoe and sick home places being laid down. Can the representative Støre explain to those who are struggling to get the ends to meet, why is it so important to fight for the property tax – which punishes the most those who have the least?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e148	Property taxes are among those that do not punish those who have the least. It's actually one of the taxes that reaches people who have a lot of property and expensive property, and they have to pay their contribution. Tax is the way the community finances the fissure layer. This government will cut in taxes over state, most cut out for those who have the most. Now they also want to cut in the municipalities. The tradition in Norway has been that we let the municipalities decide this. They do it a little bit differently from what they have, how they solve them, and how they're going to pay for them. In a wide range of Right and Advance Party-led municipalities, property taxes have increased. It is not because it is particularly fun to increase property taxes — it never is — but because it is necessary to ensure care for the elderly and kindergartens. I noticed that the former rapporteur in Hadsel in the Vesterålen, the representative of Freiberg, who is now the State Council of the Progress Party, said to the party leader that if the taxes go down, the well-being goes down. It's necessary to solve these problems. I think that is a very practical expression from a rapporteur who knew what it was all about. And that's what this arrangement is going to lead to: poorer well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e157	What we see is that the Labour Party rapporteurs are in line to fight for property taxes. So most people have paid taxes and taxes in a wide range of areas to finance the welfare services that Mr. Støre is talking about. Those who have problems getting the ends to meet, but have managed to buy a dwelling, are those who are hit hardest by this extra tax that many municipalities have. There are also many municipalities that are doing very well without them. I would recommend the representative Støre to take a trip to the municipality of Os outside Bergen, which is an incredibly nice exhibition window for example. good care for the elderly. There you can run the municipality fantastically efficiently, with good services. So I'm going to ask again: why is the property tax so important to fight for, when you see that the municipalities are going with big profits, and yet you're very busy emptying your wallets for their inhabitants?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e166	My colleagues in the Workers' Party who work in municipal policy are in line to fight for good welfare. The most important thing for the welfare of people is determined in municipalities — enough kindergartens, quality in kindergartens, a safe care for the elderly, a safe environment, to clean up working life. It is the measures taken locally. They're working for this -- probably nursing in the nursing home, probably teachers in school. It's their responsibility. They don't print one more penny than they need to solve those problems, but a freedom they need to have is to do it this way. The result of the policy of Sylvi Listhaug and the Progress Party is the privatisation of these tasks – municipalities with poor advice and people with money turning a different path. We have been able to resist this in Norway, with equivalent offers for everyone. But this is a recipe for increasing differences. It is on the government platform, there will be more of it above the state, and now it will also come to the municipalities. And I'm surprised that the Right, Left and Christian People's Party is involved in this and weakens the local authorities' own right to finance and solve their welfare tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e173	It sounds a little strange that you don't take in one more penny when you go with a billion surplus even without the property tax. I think most people think it's relatively unreasonable. What you can see is that having competition is healthy in most areas, including the care of the elderly and the care services, because you can choose from offers you are not satisfied with. What is happening now in some Labour Party-driven municipalities where you go to the left – you try to throw out the private ones, then re-communalise the services – is that there are more expensive services and there is less freedom of choice. But those who sit with freedom of choice are those with thick wallets. They can buy themselves out of line, they can use these alternatives. Very well known, the representative Støre has also used private alternatives. And I just have to ask, are the experiences you have with private elderly care and private services so bad? Is that what is the basis for the detachment that we hear, of these private actors?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e180	The President must remind us that the speech has to go through the President, so that is a good idea, for example. to replace the word ‘you’ with ‘the representative’.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e185	This is for the president not to answer, because I can tell the representative that once a week, twice a week, three times a week is at a nursing home in Oslo and visits my mother – and, until he died, my father too, it is a hospital operated under Lovisenberg hospital. It is a non-profit organization with an agreement with the municipality – a public offer, a proud offer. We're happy with that. We get that again because Oslo and this great nursing home are able to provide good health care services. When the Workers' Party was given responsibility in Oslo in 2015, it was forbidden in Oslo to start municipal kindergartens. It's ideological skyscrapers! There was a ban on starting it. In this context, competition shall be opened, private persons shall be restricted and preferential rights granted. One should make it a Swedish model – a Swedish model that shows that it is a ‘fixed track’ for private people, and the ideals are swept out. The elderly don't get increased freedom of choice, it's just 3-4 pst. that exchange. But that's where those that give well-being can go bankrupt. We don't want such a society.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e192	Child protection has remained still since the early 1990s, and welfare researchers are aware that there is a contributing factor in the increase in child poverty during the same period. In particular, single caregivers and immigrant families are overrepresented in the statistics on children growing up in poverty. Increased child-responsiveness is therefore a good social economy and public health policy. Fewer children growing up in poor families will lead to better growing-up conditions and better health for the population as a whole. We know that the Labour Party is committed to reducing poverty in Norway. Why does the Workers' Party choose, despite this well-documented knowledge of what works, to say no to increased child welfare, one of the targeted measures against increasing child poverty?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e199	I am among those who miss Hareide, but let me welcome the Count as a parliamentary leader-colleague. The working party is not against child welfare. Child welfare is good. We believe that we can show that instead of increasing it spends money on services that are important to children and families. For example, instead of extra $80 this year for mothers, we can provide school food for everyone in primary school. We can provide dental care for young people up to the age of 21. But it is that the 80 kroner that you get in increased child care this year are not enough to pay the increase in the nursery price. Let me add a question, a follow-up to this: when the Christian People's Party proposed to increase child welfare this autumn, the Labour Party would be open to discuss it, but there were a number of two in that proposal: how will it be financed? The Christian People's Party said in what I think is good Christian People's Party-style, that it gets them the most paid for – a new level of step tax that allows us to finance it in a fair way. It's out of the statement, and thus becomes the common people, common parents who have to pay for this. It's unfair.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e208	In the fall, there was a UN report that shows that unfortunately, more than ever before, greenhouse gas emissions need to be reduced, without it having contributed to the special speaking time spent by Mr Støre on climate change. Closes the world by approaching the 1.5 degree point in 2050, for example. to flutter in oil and gas if you don't need it. The competition for fossil energy producers is likely to be significantly tougher. In addition to climate risk, Norway takes a large financial risk and a risk on behalf of a large industry, and we are prolonging very powerful state framework conditions without being willing to assess changes. In this way, the initiative of the representative Barth Eide took place last week on an oil tax regime debate in connection with the programme work for 2021, was important. Unfortunately, partisan Storere parked the initiative immediately. When my representative Støre that the Labour Party will take that debate, considering how much is at stake both in terms of climate and for important Norwegian jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e215	We need to take that debate all the time, on both financial risk, climate risk, technological risk, how Norway should be at the forefront in order to be able to extract its natural resources effectively. I do not know if the representative now asked the question on behalf of the Left or the Government, but I assume that it is a little bit both. An important NOW has now come about the financial risk associated with the development of global warming. We need to put great emphasis on this, and we need to develop taxes and framework conditions that match the role that Norway will play. However, in the case of taxes and schemes to which actors must relate when investing, it is important that there is also stability and predictability. That's why the Workers' Party has said that the search fusion system is well developed, it invites smaller companies on the base, we get access to new technology, new knowledge. It's stuck. We're behind it. Then we'll have a debate about the financial risk, how Norway exposes itself to both the money we've earned through the oil fund and how the state otherwise has its ownership. But the position of the Labour Party is perfectly clear here.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e224	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e230	In the Right's history, the desire for non-socialist cooperation has been central. Not without reason did the first volume of the Right’s History ‘The Dream of Civilization’. And here we are, January 2019, almost a hundred years later, and the Granavolden platform is signed by the four non-socialist parties. The dream of civic gathering has become a reality. Norway has received a non-social majority government with an ambitious programme for Norway. Where political instability is rife in other countries, we in Norway have been able to discuss ourselves towards a common direction for the country. We need to secure Norway for the future and build a sustainable welfare society. A sustainable welfare society needs businesses that work, and people who work. Therefore, government parties want it to pay off to work and invest. We're going to bet on infrastructure and competence. In a good conservative spirit, we're going to deliver the globe in good condition to the next generation, also environmentally. Norway should therefore lead the climate policy. Emissions shall be brought down and the means applied shall be stepped up. Norway is today a country with strong confidence between people and small differences. We must maintain this social sustainability. Therefore, the government will reduce exclusion, integrate more immigrants and pursue a knowledge policy that allows people to live free and independent lives. We cannot enjoy freedom without security. That is why the government will also be investing in the police, and not least in a strong and credible defence, as the Prime Minister explained in yesterday's statement. The agreement between the four non-socialist parties did not start in January 2019. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have been discussing their way back and forth for the last 15 years to solutions in most policy areas. The Granavolden platform is based on this consensus. When the government parties won the election in 2013, we experienced a Norway where people were in a long queue for health care. It was an unworthy situation for the patients. Since then, health cows have been dramatically reduced, for example: through closer cooperation with the private sector. Now the goal is a further reduction. These changes are also visible to schoolchildren. The Solberg government inherited a school with high apostasy, absence and mediocre results. Since then, a lot has happened. The students learn more, they are more present, and more complete. It's not random. More than 27,000 teachers have received continuing training. We have introduced a master's degree for teachers, increased intake requirements and required skills. No later than the last two weeks, we've received some good news from Norwegian school. Bullying goes down, high-recorded apprentices get a lesson, and absenteeism is reduced. The plural lots shall continue to bet. We will introduce mandatory English in Vg2 and Vg3, one extra real-time and increase the number of teacher specialists by 3,000 within four years. This way, the school will give students more opportunities to master the future. When I sat on the transport committee, I remember all the writing in the newspapers about the lack of investment on the road and the railway. Now it's basically quite quiet in the field. Norwegian transport policy has experienced a crazy change of pace. The budgets have been increased by 75 pst. during this period of government and they shall continue up. In the current NTP, the government shall use more than 1000 billion. kr on transportation. The major road projects Ryfast, Rogfast and Hordfast will provide more efficient transport solutions in the West. New roads build motorways cheaper in Trøndelag, Agder, Telemark and Inland. In Oslo, a new centre tunnel and the Fornebuban will open up new public transport services to and from Oslo. And in the north we get new airports in Bodø and Mo in Rana. I could still be here forever. The share of tolls falls at the same time as the appropriations for upgrading and renewal of the county road network have doubled. At the same time, the large-scale development of the railway continues too fully. There is nothing that creates more growth and development in districts than transport policy. What's good is that we build a road while emission from road traffic goes down by 10 pst. Every third new car being sold is now an electric car, and there is no country nearby. Because we can make a climate policy that people like. I look forward to hearing the opposition's options. The only thing the parties have in common is that they want to remove Erna Solberg as Prime Minister. Otherwise, the smoking people disagree about most of it. I therefore look forward to a debate where we will talk about government policy on the major challenges facing Norway. And I'm more motivated than ever to fight because Erna Solberg is Prime Minister of Norway even after the 2021 elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e264	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e269	The representative of Greece will have the opportunity to talk about government policy. Over time, we've simply seen a very important change, and that's that the 10 pst. in fact, the lowest income has been paid worse in the last ten years, while the 10 pst. On the other hand, the richest has actually had an increase of about 10 pst. during the same period. Now I'm not going to put the government in charge of wage development, it wouldn't be fair, it's not a politician who has a direct impact on it, but when we look at who belongs to them with the lowest 10 percent, there are people who have a free connection to the world of work. It's short and temporary contracts, part-time, rent-in – in short, people with a low priority for pay and the future. And the developments in the world of work, the conditions under which people work, have an impact, and in this way, they can also influence wage developments. So my question is simply: What does the representative of Greece intend to do to make wage developments more equitable in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e278	This government has one main objective: sustainability. It is social sustainability and sustainability for well-being, and the whole prerequisite for it is that as much as possible is linked to working life. I believe that this government platform on more than a hundred pages is saturated with measures, with objectives, to give people the opportunity to be included, to get to work and to get a good life. The background to that, the possibility of that, is that you have a connection with the world of work. Unemployment has fallen, the employment rate, which was a lot of talk a few years ago from the Labour Party, has risen. We are taking a number of measures to include both immigrants and people who have challenges to get into the labour market. So I believe that reading through the government platform gives a lot of answers to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e287	These are people who have a connection to the world of work; the connection is only bad. Societal economic analysis and the Centres for the Formation of Wage in 2016 established that those in the lowest paid 10 percent have some characteristics. They sum up saying that the usual low pay in Norway is a young, Norwegian-born woman, let's call her Ingrid. Ingrid works part-time, she is added to an enterprise without a collective agreement, and the background figure also shows that she is most likely not trade-organised either. When it comes to the question of where she works, she works in nine out of ten cases in the service sector of the private sector, i.e. she is for example. waiter, shop assistant or hotel added. Then I ask, what does the Right Party intend to do to ensure that women like Ingrid have a real chance of getting higher pay in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e296	There is no doubt that having a relationship with the labour market also provides a good starting point for improving their position, and being at work, if it is a part-time job, gives the opportunity to expand the job rate. So we know that there are different reasons why someone doesn't want to. Others have difficulty getting a higher job break. I believe that our entire policy is based on the fact that association with the labour market is the foundation of the welfare society, and then, of course, it is that we have to work so that as much as possible they can live on, and have an opportunity to cope without social benefits and social security. That is why our policy makes it clear that the link with the labour market is the most important thing. I believe that it permeates this government platform, that's what we're betting on – because the value creation depends on everyone participating.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e303	Again, these are people who have a job. They are linked to the labour market. The question is what kind of job? We see that the biggest growth in the private sector has been in the sectors that are most vulnerable, with the lowest level of organisation and the lowest level of wage development. In other words, the biggest growth is built on curved backs, which work hard too little money, it's people who are unorganized, and who don't have relationships. Nevertheless, we see that the right-wing government again insists on writing on the platform that they ‘recognize’ the unorganised working life, and they do not launch any new measures to improve the level of organisation. What's the reason for that?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e310	I believe I have now answered this through two questions, namely that what we're building on is the whole chain of value creation. When we create a government platform, the assumption is that most people have a connection to the world of work. I can't go in and tell you to go from 10 to 20 pst. Or from 30 to 50. The point is that you have to have a working life as a demand for labour, you have to have an economy that goes well, you have to have value creation in Norway, you have to have growth – which means that there is room for everyone in the world of work, that everyone gets decent pay, and that everyone has a connection to the world of work.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e315	As I expect the representative of Greece and the Right has registered, there have been major reactions to the government's predatory policy. It's only been weeks since over 10,000 people demonstrated outside this hall. Among the demonstrators, a number of local trustees were in the Right. More than 200 rapporteurs have signed a motion for a resolution against the government's predatory policy, including many rapporteurs from the Right. Right-wing policymakers have been absent in the predatory debate. Many conclude, therefore, that the Left's predatory policy has become its Right, which must be said to be new. It is therefore necessary to ask the Right: Is the Right satisfied with the predatory policy pursued by today's government?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e322	If one goes into the famous Granavolden platform, it's very clear and explicit that the government is going to follow the two predatory transactions in the Storting and the majority settlement on wolves, which I myself agreed to negotiate in what was well the previous magnification period. I think those who know me know that I'm not very quiet when it comes to wolves. I am pleased to register that four new wolves were allowed to be killed last night, that there has never been as much wolf as it is now, and that the government platform determines that the wolf settlement will be followed up. I hope that the Central Party, if, against assumption, they were to be in a government with SV, Red and the Green Party, would be just as eager in predatory policy as they are in opposition. I have my strong doubts about that, because there was not much we were part of the Central Party when they were in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e329	Now it's the way that the wolf population is far above what it should be. The robbers set to take out three wolf herds, while the government responds by taking out only one of two wolves. We see again that the predators will be tested and run over by today's government. Hobøl and Mangen were saved by this government, and the Right is thus helping to set aside the decision of the Storting and the entire predatory settlement. It is serious, both politically and in principle. Today, however, the Centre Party is proposing to take out the Hobøl and Manganese teams, which were the proposals of predators. Is this a proposal Right-wing can support and will support the Centre Party in?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e337	Now we have a predatory animal management and a system for what is not based on the fact that in a declaration debate, the Storting has to decide which wolves to take out. That would be a little unprofessional way of dealing with this question. But the wolf settlement is firm, and I believe that the discussion that was about the three flocks is relevant. I think it's hard. I think maybe we should take out more – that's my opinion. But what's important, and as the Center Party very smoothly overlooks, is that for the first time, it was decided to take out wolves in the wolf zone. It's an unusually important signal. No one can say that the wolf zone should be a reserve, or that it should be a wolf zone, even in the wolf zone we can take out the wolf. I believe that the wolf settlement is firm. We're going to follow that up. I am also pleased that the Ministry of Agriculture will now be involved in the assessments, in addition to the Ministry of the Environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e346	The right has, rightly, got a lot too thin for the fourth requirement in mathematics in order to get into the teacher's education, because it turns out so terribly unfortunate and leads to the teaching shortage going on in Norwegian school. So one can have 5.2 on the average and still can't get into the teacher's education, because one doesn't have 4 in math -- even if one never has to teach mathematics and has 5 or 6 in the subjects a dream of teaching. Making sure our kids meet a qualified teacher when they get to school is so important that I had the hope that we could have put party politics aside and taken a joint responsibility for finding a golden middleway. The University and Higher Education Council has come up with a compromise proposal, a test scheme with an alternative recording criterion where the average character can trump the fourth requirement, i.e. that 40 credits are required instead of grade 3 in mathematics. Is this something that the Right can evaluate?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e351	First, I want to say that I disagree very much with the questioner in the premise that the Right has got a lot thin. On the contrary, we have received a lot of praise for having reduced our absence in Norwegian school, because we have strengthened our competence, because we have introduced master's education for teachers, because we have given the students a school where they will learn, not just be. So I think what we've done in school policy is very good. I believe that having character requirements in mathematics is important in raising skills in real science – it's not without reason that the government now also wants to introduce a new class of real science in school. Then I am convinced that the course in which the government is in – bringing down the absence, raising the grades, strengthening the quality of teachers through post-graduate education, through the lifting of competences – is the right medicine for Norwegian school. SV's medicine has never worked, and therefore we had to turn the course after eight years with red-green control.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e356	Last week I was visiting my old teacher school in Tromsø. It was a very pleasant review. When I asked what we should do to get rid of the teaching shortage, which is particularly critical in the north, I got one answer: Never give up fighting the 4th requirement in mathematics! Tromsø fills all its places. It's a popular place of study, and there's a lot of good reasons for that. Nevertheless, they see a development in which they mistrain their students. All incoming students undertake further education in math and natural sciences, and no one chooses Norwegian, because it is voluntary to take Norwegian for 5–10. steps. Does not the representative and the right parliamentary leader really see any challenges with the four-year requirement when the professional signals from the University and Higher Education Council, the institutions and the education students are so clear?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e363	I mentioned in my previous answer that we add up to an extra real-time course in school now. The right answer to SV may well be that you should rather be with us and fight for the quality of math and that the quality of math education and the characteristics of the students went up, so that even more people met the requirement to have 4 in math to get into the teacher's education. I think it's a better way to go than to say that now we've introduced a requirement, it's a little difficult for some, and that's why we have to remove it. This does not lead to increased quality in Norwegian school. We want better and strengthened real-time education. So the students will get better grades, more will qualify, and I think we'll get a lot of good teachers in real time.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e368	I want to start by taking up the thread from earlier in the debate and encouraging the representative of Greece to think a little more about who his colleagues in the Stortinget are, because the Green Party and the Labour Party are close to each other on the issues of value creation and the EEA. The difference is that the Greens do not want to strengthen oil dependence. In climate policy, the devil lies in the details. As one of the key issues of climate policy, this government has a flat CO 2 tax, which is to be gradually increased from 2020. But then it says somewhere else on the platform that in terms of the pump price, i.e. the petrol and diesel prices, for the passenger car transport, it has to be compensated for. So, precisely in the case of passenger cars, which represent half of the emissions from the transport sector — and the transport sector is the individual sector in Norway with the highest emissions — environmental policy should not be labelled. The question is how the Right, as the Prime Minister's party, intends to achieve the objective of halving emissions in the transport sector, not to touch the main instrument, in passenger car transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e380	Thanks to MDG. I think I must have made a mistake if I have listed the MDG among those who disagreed with the EEA Agreement or who did not want it. I don't think I did it, but by doing so, the representative is acquitted. I know that the MDG actually has a better European policy than a lot of parties on that side. That being said, there's a lot of other things that might not be right inside, but we'll have to discuss that another time. With regard to the CO 2 tax, the government has a very good policy to reduce emissions in road traffic. It gives results day by day. Now I've been waiting in line for a year to get my new electric car, I have another electric car. This shows that electric cars have helped reduce emissions. We compensate for that through the charging policy. I believe that the exchange we're making there is quite right, because people are investing in an electric car, it gets emissions down – it's a good policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e392	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e397	Many have been said about the political harvest we have set behind us. Now we start a new political spring. I am grateful and proud to stand here as the parliamentary leader of the Progress Party and be able to look beyond the national assembly of the country and know that it is the majority of the solutions we have negotiated on Granavolden. It is now governed by a strengthened political platform and by a majority in this Chamber. The four non-socialist parties that were given a majority in the 2017 elections have negotiated a common foundation that provides predictability for the continued good development of Norway. Congratulations and welcome to the Christian People's Party as part of the government! For more than five years, the Progress Party has had its hand on the steering wheel. We got in position, we delivered, and we were re-elected. We wanted political success, and we have. We run the country to make everyday life easier and better for most people. The starting point for a majority government was that we should continue to lower taxes and taxes, strengthen the historical investment in transport and put in place further tightening on immigration. With this platform, we're just doing it. With the Progress Party in the Ministry of Transport, the budget has increased by 75 pst. We're building the country with safe roads. We build more roads, and we build smarter ones so that we get more and better money. The maintenance run has gone down, and at the same time we have made sure that the drivers are no longer the country's dairy cow. The portfolio of new Weighers will increase in the coming NTP. We're going to introduce a toll deduction, we're going to double the infrastructure fund, and we're going to cut tolls in the districts by approx. 1 billion. kr annually. The platform also states that pump prices on petrol and diesel should not increase as a result of tax changes and increased blending of biofuels. That the speed limit can be increased to 120 km/h on the best roads may not be the most important thing for everyone, as long as it is allowed to drive in 110, but at least I feel sure that we are looking forward to a lot of car enthusiasts when we remove the one-time charge on the import of cars that are over 20 years old. The local economy is historically good. Nevertheless, in recent years a number of red-green municipal politicians have found it necessary to increase property taxes despite the fact that the government has strengthened the municipal economy. For the Progress Party, the entire property tax is a waste, and the fight against property tax has long been one of our most important things. It will be in the municipality of the harvest as well. In the Jeleya platform, we lowered the maximum from 7 to 5 per mille. In the Granavolden platform, we cut another one per million. With this, more than one third of the country's municipalities must cut the property tax rate. That's good news for the people. Their housing is a home and not a tax item for politicians who are unable to operate the municipality effectively. There are enough municipalities that can manage without property taxes, and many of these municipalities are the ones that deliver the best, with a good service offer and happy inhabitants. Citizens have already paid for municipal welfare services through ordinary taxes. High property taxes testify to weak financial management and not to poor local economy. If local politicians fail to meet the priorities, the voters can help them in the 9 September elections. It's going well in our country. Unemployment continues to decline, the number of persons employed increases, and we still have a record in the number of newly established enterprises. The most positive developments are seen in typical districts — in the West, in the North and in the Inland. We use the whole country, and we provide jobs where people live. In the new platform, we have achieved further simplifications in planning and construction matters and for the construction and exploitation of land without any obstacles being placed on the part of the state or state. It's taking local democracy seriously. In business policy, further simplifications and improvements are being put in place for small and medium-sized enterprises. The amount limit for annual VAT reporting is to be raised, we simplify the legislation for auditing, and we are to review the framework conditions for self-employed and freelancers in order to make it easier to start their own business. In addition, we will present a separate strategy to strengthen SMEs. In total, this will make it easier to establish businesses and businesses, and we need that. We are committed to providing the best possible facilities for people who want to create and develop jobs, and the results of the offensive business policy are both that businesses move home and that more people choose to establish themselves in Norway. That's good news for a country with a small and open economy, and that means we're doing something very right.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e431	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e436	I would like to congratulate the Progress Party on its third government statement – a new spring, as the representative Limi said. The party of progress seems to have had an impact on Granavolden. The tax-free quota is back for those who can carry heavy loads, and for health policy we see some obvious tricks to the right and the eagerness to privatize, then at the expense of our common health service, which is present everywhere for everyone. You raise some ambitions about drugs and psychiatry, while the reality out there for the most people is that you feel that it's being cut in this service. In More and Romesdal, there is room for intoxication and psychiatry, in Sylvi Listhaug's home area, where it is said that this is not acceptable. So my question is, will you also experience in this government one FrP in Stortinget, one FrP in local media and one FrP in government?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e446	It is a reality that, over the years since 2013, health care and older people as well as drug use and psychiatry have been significantly strengthened by major efforts. We see that the waiting time for treatment has fallen. In general, waiting time has decreased — fewer are in health queues, and especially in drug and psychiatry. So I believe that we have followed up the promises that were made. We're still going to do that, and it's also carrying the new platform. It is important to provide good services for those with drug problems, and therefore we need to ensure that waiting time and treatment provision are even better.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e451	It is then easy for me to interpret the representative Limi there that the reduction in and the reductions in the number of treatment sites now taking place around in all the country’s healthcare companies for this patient group is a correct correction – it is in line with the efforts made by the government. It's hard to understand by other means. There is at least one experience that is not shared out there, where you simply feel that it is becoming more difficult to get help, local treatment sites are in danger, and it becomes longer, among other things. Ambulance. I would also like to ask the representative Limi another question: on so-called conscience issues, the Progress Party has had a tradition of releasing its representatives. For the Workers' Party, the abortion law is just such a question. It's about ethics, it's about fundamental rights for women. Does the representative Limi think that the abortion law is like any other issue to be debated in a government statement? Or are you still looking specifically at women's acquired rights in such profoundly serious questions for the individual?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e458	It is not the case that we have negotiated the abortion law in government negotiations – rather on the contrary. We've made sure that there won't be any major changes in the abortion law, with one exception, and that's the case with twins away. It's a little surprising to think that the Workers' Party is attacking the new government and attacking the platform for, is agreement on points with which the Workers' Party did nothing as long as they were in government position. They had eight years to make changes in both gene and bio, and in particular to do something about the interpretation of the law in relation to the twin away. That's not what they chose to do. Now we've done it because we've agreed that we could do some constraints, but we've also very clearly defined that it's the only constraints that come with the current abortion law.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e465	It's obvious that attack is the best defense, but when the representative Limi accuses the Workers' Party of not doing anything, it's a claim that doesn't hold water. What is real is that there has always been a law with the practice that has been established through the Law Department during today's government when it comes to reducing the unborn child. It has always been legal, and it has been practiced in healthcare. In 2016, Health Minister Bent Höie concluded that this is self-determined. It has to go to Stortinget, and the abortion law has to be changed in order for it to change. That's what you've admitted to the Christian People's Party in the negotiations, there are restrictions in the abortion law. Is it that Limi looks different at this than the government council Bent Höie?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e472	I don't think so. I only record that it was not until 2016 that this was defined and interpreted within the applicable law. And as I said, it's pretty clear in the Granavolden platform that it's not relevant to make changes to the abortion law with one exception, and that's what's going on with twins away. It is clearly defined and defined in the platform negotiated between the four batches.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e477	There I was falling into fish One of the strongest impressions after more than five years with the Progress Party in government is a sharp increase in fees in Norway. [[Ambition in the Chamber – the representative stumbled into the purse of the Minister for Fisheries on his way up to the Chair.]] During the first five years of government membership of the Advance Party, the fees increased by 6.6 billion. kr. There were charges that affected Norwegian jobs, which led to the closure of an airport, first to investments that were not made, and which led to job losses. One of the charges that has increased heavily during the day’s government is the current charge: over 30 pst. a higher fee today than when the Advance Party entered the government. In addition to the increase in charges, net tariffs have also increased, and new foreign tables have been set up to increase electricity prices in Norway. How much does the Progress Party believe it makes sense for electricity prices in Norway to increase further?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e484	Of course, the progress party doesn't think it makes sense that electricity prices are increasing, it should just be missing. I would like to remind the representative Gülsvik that in the budget for 2019 the electricity tax went down, it was reduced like other taxes. Now we're in a situation where there's high power prices, while we know that at times we're totally dependent on importing electricity, because we have a very high consumption. That means that we are dependent on having an exchange with a market in Europe. We have had Nordic energy cooperation for many years, and we have a European energy cooperation. That being said, it is a little special to attack the Progress Party for having carried out so-called tax increases, while we know that overall we have greatly reduced taxes and taxes. We see that there is a very positive trend across the country, and we see that companies are established – that is a record number – and that unemployment is falling. [[President clubs]] In total, the results of this policy are very good. [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e491	Time is up – this is a long day of debate. The president's probably going to be pretty strict at the time of speech, and it's 1 minute to the change in line. Then it's Gegelsvik's word that applies.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e496	It is true that the sum of taxes and taxes has decreased, but charges have increased. What you've done is that most people have contributed to a spice layer by paying more and more taxes, so that those who have the most of them will get reduced taxes. That's the fasit of the Progress Party in government, and one sees that it will continue. In the new government platform, for example on the VAT system, it is fine that one should review and simplify the VAT system and reduce the number of rates. Then you might think that this would lead to a reduction in taxes, reducing VAT. But no, just after the new platform is presented, a mandate comes from the Minister of Finance where no instruction is given that this should lead to reduced fees. On the contrary, they are instructed by the Minister of Finance to present a proposal involving increased taxes so that they can further reduce taxes on those who already have the most. Why has this become sensible policy on the part of the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e503	What's real is that over the years we've been in government, we have reduced taxes and taxes by almost 25 billion. kr. We have reduced taxes both for companies and for employees, and it has also benefited them with low and medium incomes. It's not right that it's just those who have the most, who have received tax credits, that has benefited most of the most. Now, once again, a prerequisite for participating in a tax relief is that you already pay taxes. We have a progressive tax system that helps to make it, of course, the most impact on the highest incomes, but the point is that it is distributed to everyone. I do not imagine that we are going into a new period of charging increases. What has been signaled is a review of the VAT system. In other areas of this platform, it is clear that there is a need for changes, including: the CO2 tax shall be compensated for by other measures, so that there is a balance of what has been negotiated.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e510	The government platform states: ‘The government will therefore continue its work on modernising and adapting the Working Environment Act.’ Last time the government modernised the work environment law, it was opened for temporary settings without the need for temporary labour. What concrete weakening and deterioration – or softening, as they like to call it – can people expect with this plural government?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e521	The word'seizure' is probably a little misleading if you look at what's happened. Some adaptations have been made to the Working Environment Act, including: to open temporary employment within a strictly regulated framework. Experience so far does not suggest any particular use. What is the main rule in Norwegian working life is permanent employment – and it should remain so. What we're open to is looking at a little bit more flexibility, for example. in the case of tournament schemes, for which we know that in many industries and professional groups there is a great desire and need. We must constantly look at the needs of working life and society and adapt the legislation we have to meet the needs and needs that are there.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e528	Climate change leads to more extreme weather. This means that food production in Norway is becoming more difficult. It makes our oceans get more acid, and they get warmer. The fish off the Norwegian coast wander northwards. We get more hunger in the world. We get more climate refugees. The roads in Norway are getting less safe because we get more race and go. Then I think it's a bit spooky that it's the smallest parties in this government that have climate and environment as their important thing. Therefore, I wonder: What three measures in this government platform is it the Progress Party seems to have been most important to work for even to cut for 45 pst. of emissions in Norway in the non-quota sector by 2030?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e533	Of course, we're behind the whole platform as it's negotiated at Granavolden. The Progress Party has always been concerned with cost-effective environmental and climate action. What is on this platform is, among other things, a continuation of the electric car benefits – very costly measures, which may be asked questions about the cost-benefit effect, but they should be continued. And we have been told that the green conversion of the one-off fee should also be continued, even if there is now another measurement system in Europe – which is also introduced in Norway. We believe that important measures in a positive way help people to make more environmentally friendly choices, including: when they buy a new car. It is organised for that, and it is a continuation of the policy that we have pursued in the last five years.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e538	Thanks for the answer. Some of the instruments to which the representative refers have already been agreed by the Stortinget that the government should do so. Much of that is already done. Changing the electric car benefits in our time would have been very strange, to put it mildly. It would create a resurrection internationally. I would like to come back to my question: What has the Progress Party been working for in this platform, and what are they most proud of when it comes to concrete measures that we don't just cut 10 pst. the next 12 years, but 45 pst. in the non-quota sector – in the case of transport, agriculture, waste and construction?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e545	I mentioned the measures that have been important to us to make people make more environmentally friendly choices. We also believe that positive instruments are needed to achieve the ambitions of climate policy. It can't just be whip, it must also be some carrots. We see that when we use the charging system in a positive way, we also get big effects. The results are good. A continuation of both the one-off and one-off charging policies and the electric carcincentives that lie there are right climate measures — at least during this period. In addition, we have prioritised implementation in other areas of the platform that has been important for the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e550	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e555	Today we are debating the declaration to a majority government. There is reason to congratulate the Prime Minister. I can promise that the Central Party will be a steady and tough political opponent in the Stortinget. Since 2013, we have seen a government challenging many of the core values on which the Norwegian welfare community is built, in terms of both geographical and social cohesion. Now the Prime Minister has adjusted his team layout, but the statement shows that the main course will be the same. It is a course that in total is not good for Norway. The government, by a small majority, has forced unpopular and questionable centralisation reforms, which can best be described as the key investor. The government has also had an easy relationship to impose new taxes on people and businesses that have neither been investigated nor discussed in advance with those affected. The expanded government will therefore increasingly be tested against these questions. Are they a government for the whole country? Are they a government that is really willing to care for Norwegian business and Norwegian interests? Unfortunately, the government has decided in a speed-blind way to overrun groups with which they should have had a good dialogue. Through the majority government, the central parties have lost their tilt position in the Stortinget. The power that the center has had to tame the suggestions of the right-hand side is gone. Then there's the gravity inside the government that counts – or maybe we're going to say the meat weight. We already see it; it's going to be a cool experience. The Prime Minister announced at his press conference last week that she would not be like other majority governments, as she said. We understand who she was thinking about then. She was to be open to ideas from the opposition in Stortinget. Then the Prime Minister could have started by replying to that letter on a statement about the robbery policy that the Workers' Party and the Centre asked for more than six weeks ago, and we have still not received an answer. We know that there are also many in the Right and the Advance Party who are wondering what is really happening in the field of predatory game policy, and whether the climate minister has respect for the Storting decision. But so far we have not seen the spin of any response to the letter that was sent. In other words, it's a little bad start to the Stortinget dialogue. Norway has never had a larger government than now. With 22 state councils and 48 state secretaries, the Solberg government is setting a record. It also puts its tracks in the staging room. Now the Prime Minister is placed in "Call 1", as we see – or as we center partisans might say, she is located within "Call 2". In any case, the Prime Minister chooses to expand rather than to streamline. It is the convenient solution chosen — not to solve a social problem, not to make Norway better, but to try to create a better climate within the government. An extension of the government leads to a fragmentation of responsibility and ambiguity within the college and for us on the outside. Nor does it give much authority when it stands in stark contrast to the demands made by the government to others – to universities, police, courts and other public bodies that need to be more effective. Equally suspicious is the fact that the government is composed in such a way that large parts of the country remain standing without spokesmen around the King's table. There are actually three counties holding half the government. It's Oslo, Bergen and Stavanger. The geographical balance sheet is very distorted, either a city-to-country weighting or a region-to-country weighting. The most correct thing is to say that this is an Oslo/South West government. The strong geographical bias is going to weaken the legitimacy of the government in meeting with several parts of the country. For example, I understand. good Right in Trøndelag when they react strongly to the lack of thronders in the government. But for many in the Right, it is well as the representative Heidi Nordby Lunde said about Trendelag Right Congratulation: "This is as we say in Oslo Right, storm in a Chablis glass." The government’s representation is weakest in those areas that are struggling with the problems of predatory game, which have to fight for recognition of important industries, such as industry. the forest and wood processing industries and grazing industries. It is the counties who do not have state councils, who know tough things about the body of police and municipal and county councils, who see district policy measures being removed from the state budget, and who feel that state jobs and services are being removed when tax offices, Nav, the state road network and traffic stations are centralised. In many ways it almost seems as if the state is withdrawing from parts of this country, while on the other hand the state is attaching grip on power and income in more and more areas, and I will come back to that a little bit. This government has become a tax administration in its five years. The tax breaks have gone to those who have the most from before. Investment tax reliefs are largely financed by tax increases for everyone at large. It is a fundamental social tax policy. Many of the tax increases have also been camouflaged as so-called green taxes, but they have no significant impact on greenhouse gas emissions. In a time of record electricity prices, the government has even found it useful to increase the tax on electricity. Overall, they have increased it by 36 pst. during its period. It is tough today, for both consumers and Norwegian power-intensive industries. Some of the first government is now going to start, are new tax counting edges for discounts in employment or for volunteers who do a hard job, including those who do a lot of work. in Kultur-Norway. Now the advantage they've had of participating in the event they're doing well for is to be taxed. When one sees such suggestions, there's reason to ask how the government always thinks. This will be perceived – rightly – as both bureaucratic and petty. But that's probably what one thinks about when one in the government statement says that one has to go through tax deductions, because if one is to have lower rates, as the Prime Minister said yesterday, more taxes have to be taxed harder, sail if it's unwise, and then an extension of the tax base has to be made. The Government statement stresses that tax bases must be ensured and that natural resources must be taxed in such a way that profits fall to the community. The question is, which community? Does the Right and Advance Party at all trust that one is able to manage that type of income locally, or is everyone going to jump into the treasury? I ask because the government is now investigating moving natural resource income from the municipalities to the state. So the municipalities that give off nature and land to hydropower, wind power and agriculture can risk not being left with anything – everything has to be declared. If that happens, there will be an uprising along the entire coast and in the industries concerned, for those areas of the country that experience natural interference and sit on natural resources, shall also have their share of the value creation. The centre party doesn't have very high expectations for the government. We think it's going to be the exact same centralizing government that we've seen in the last five years. Perhaps more of the centralisation will become a so-called silent centralisation, where the government outsources centralisation to governments and businesses to keep the difficult decommissioning issues out of the political debate. They did so in the police center, and we already see it in the ambulance service, where health companies are going to carry out the centralisation, without the Minister of Health taking any responsibility. We see it in the university sector, where the governments of universities are going to centralize places of study, without any responsibility from the Council of State. We will also see it at the point in the government statement entitled «Completing the Municipal Reform», where the county council members will now have the task of forcing the municipalities to attend countless seminars to encourage further municipal mergers, and where the income system will once again be used to coerce municipalities. It means, in total, increased government and less popular government. Such developments need to be discussed politically. This is not an improvement in efficiency or modernisation – this is the old recipe for large-scale centralisation on the right, hidden inside companies and in the various boardrooms. The centre party is ready for the next 2.5 years. Our option is not about privatising and centralizing. It's not going to be about lowering taxes for the few and at the same time increasing taxes for the many. The centre party will continue the debate about seeing all of Norway, about listening to people all over the country, and about using this whole country. We will continue the debate on a tax system in which those who have the most have to contribute the most, and where budgets are not to be aged with social contributions. We are going to have debates about decentralisation, about services close to people and about how we can best use the rich natural resources that this country owns. With that, I would like to address the proposals No. 3–14, from the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e598	The representative of Marit Arnstad has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e605	We could hear Arnstad's representative in the speech saying that government's policy would lead to less popular government in the municipalities. On the right, a strong local democracy, where local authorities are a strong authority to facilitate social development, for the benefit of citizens. Local authorities are responsible for managing their territory, including: through planning, e.g.: spatial plans. In the government platform, we can read that municipalities will be more able to be exempted from their own plans, as long as there is no conflict with national laws and requirements. On 3 March 2017, the Council adopted, inter alia: The central party opposed a proposal similar to a proposal contained in the government platform. It could give municipalities greater access and more popular governance in municipalities. My question is: does the Central Party still have little confidence in the local politicians and local self-government, or can we expect the Central Party to vote for the government's proposal when it comes to the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e612	I guess I didn't talk about less popular government in the municipalities. I was talking about more government officials and less popular government when the government now chooses to entrust centralization to corporations and governments in the different institutions, because that's a very unwise way to do it. Many of the changes that occur in structures in society should occur in elected bodies. It is a sign of weakness when the government entrusts it to directors or corporations. That's what I meant by the government of civil servants in relation to popular government. So it's true that we haven't supported the government at all points in terms of the Planning and Building Act, but we've ended up with a lot of points. Trellevik chooses one proposal where we might have a slightly different opinion on the matter, but we have also supported the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Government on a number of other points relating to the Planning and Building Act. The centre party wishes to see the strongest local democracy possible. That's also one of the reasons why we're going against community reunification, because it leads to fewer elected people. As a result, there is fewer involvement in local politics and participation in local democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e619	In the last five years, the centre party has been talking about increased fees, and so has the representative Arnstad in his post now. However, it stands in stark contrast to the policy they actually pursued when they had power last. Car-related charges then went up. Now they're going down. When the Senterpartiet crashed, the country had an unfair inheritance fee. It's now removed. When the Centerpartie ruled, the municipalities could charge 7 per cent of the property tax. Now they can charge 5 per million, and we're going to go down to 4 per million. The property tax does not take into account how much you earn or how much you have in the account. It sounds a little strange that the central part of the house is talking about increased taxes while at the same time fighting with beaks and clothes for increased taxes on property. Why is it so important for the Center Party to view a dwelling as a tax item, and not as a home?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e627	I'm trying to keep a little young in mind, so I prefer to discuss what's happened in the last five years, while this government has been sitting, instead of discussing what happened in the eight years before that again. We are gathered here today to discuss the government statement of a government that has already been sitting for five years. So I think it's important. The debate on taxes is important, because, unlike tax reliefs, they affect everyone, no matter how much they earn. That's why the way this government finances tax credits for the highly paid, with tax increases for the most part. That's what the Center Party has pointed out, and we're going to point that out. In the case of property taxes – if we first go back to the red-green period – the property tax when we went off in 2013 was 3.7 billion. NOK in sum. Today it's $7.1 billion. kr. So I understand that the Progress Party, with its profile, has a certain need to try to reduce property taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e636	When you hear the representative Arnstad and other representatives of the Central Party talk about property taxes, you would think that it was completely impossible for the municipalities to operate without property taxes, and that the welfare services would be the first thing that would be cut if you had cut the property tax. It's a paradox that welfare services are already funded by all the other taxes that I and everyone else in this country pay. The property tax is therefore an extra tax, which is paid to the municipality’s inhabitants when one cannot prioritise locally. Another paradox is that property taxes increase even if the local economy is very good. The profits are record high, and there have never been fewer municipalities on the ROBEK list. However, some municipalities manage without property taxes, including: The representative of the municipality of Arnstad, Stjørdal. It is a bourgeoisly overthrown municipality with the Senterparti rapporteur. Can Arnstad reveal to other Centerpart rapporteurs, who are happy with as high a property tax as possible, what is the secret of the municipality of Stjørdal?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e643	I do not think the representative Bjørnstad may have listened to my reply. I just pointed out that in the days of the government of the Advance Party, the property tax has doubled. It's gone from a total of 3.4 billion. NOK when the red-green went off, to be SEK 7.1 billion. kr per 2017, as the Progress Party has been sitting and running for four years. So I understand that the Progress Party has a certain need to try to reduce property taxes. I'm from a Centerpart-steered municipality that doesn't have property taxes. There's a lot of advantages to it. But the Progress Party also has to think about when they want to reduce property taxes, is that then you actually have to do something about the local economy. It is necessary to provide for better income and better distribution of income from the State between municipalities, so that welfare tasks in municipalities are not affected.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e650	Then I just have a simple question for the representative Arnstad. It is true that property taxes have increased in recent years. That's why we want to bring down the prom. Will the Central Party support these proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e655	The property tax has not only increased — it has doubled. So I understand that the Progress Party wants to take down the property tax. The central party wants to pursue a policy in the area of local economy – the income and distribution of the income of the municipalities – which means that municipalities do not charge too much property tax. And I'm going to keep doing that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e660	The central party's need for poorer districts surprises us a little. It also amazed me when I visited a district municipality – my own, Verran – and Salmar’s facilities in Folla, where not least the founder of the company, Gustav Witzøe, has a great faith in the future and invests heavily not only there, but also elsewhere. The representative Arnstad was also in this area about the situation in municipal Norway. The number of ROBEK municipalities has fallen enormously under the civil regime. The number will now be 17, which means that the municipalities do their living well and operate effectively. Nevertheless, the representative Arnstad serves a poor description of the municipality of Norway and says not least that my party Left is responsible for it. In 2013 – although Arnstad does not like to look back – it was not 17, as it will be now, but 46 municipalities that were on the ROBEK list under former Minister of State Liv Signe Navarsete. What is the basis for this? Is it actually a little bit better than it did in 2013?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e667	There's no doubt that out on the coast, for example, is going. The aquaculture industry is very good — even in the region we come from, Trondelag. This may well be why the Right Party and the Advance Party are now considering introducing a base rate tax on the aquaculture industry, which should even be State-owned. It's going to create uprisings along the coast if that happens. There is absolutely no hope for the management of natural resources. To the extent that action is to be taken, a farm fund or a production levy should be available to the sea, which is also located locally and not indirectly drawn through the local framework, with which the government has also threatened. It is in such ways that the economy and value creation along the coast and in the districts are destroyed. But I expect that it has been a long time since the representative of Skkelstad has been in Snåsa and seen that they are losing their ambulance and not going into dialogue with political authorities. I expect that it is quite a long time since he has been on the E6 in Namskogan and seen how many hours it takes for the police to have an accident on that part of the E6. And the concerns people across the North Trøndelag have about it, as a representative from there, I'm supposed to communicate as much as I can.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e674	The Government Declaration provides for an offensive and good agricultural policy, where it will be possible to operate agriculture throughout the country and to strengthen both small, medium-sized and large-scale uses. The instruments are solid and the Bond Team has expressed great satisfaction with what is in the Government Platform. Anyway, it's not good enough for the Center Party. What about the government's agricultural policy that the Central Party disagrees with?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e679	It has been a very good thing over the last four years that the bulk of the population, including the Center Party and the Christian People's Party, has been able to keep the Right Party and the Progress Party in terms of agricultural policy, among other things. through the agricultural message for which we received a majority in the Stortinget. It has been a good thing, and I think it has slowed down some of the things the Right Party and the Advance Party have otherwise wanted to do. That's good. It is also the case that the Christian People's Party has got through a number of things in the government platform – something for which there is already a majority in the Stortinget, and for which there has always been a majority in the Stortinget – as among others. is about maintaining the negotiating institute in agriculture, about running a channelling policy, and about maintaining small and large-scale use. That's good, but what you've actually done then, is to eliminate the disadvantages of the Right and the Advance Party's agricultural policy, for which there has never been a majority in the Stortinget. A lot of the cancers are applied to it. I'm not going to say that the chapter on agriculture is negative, but I have one big danger sign to set up in terms of agriculture. It is that there are quite different things in this government statement about customs protection. There's one thing in the agricultural chapter and something else in the trading chapter, and it's the Christian People's Party that has to be very attentive to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e688	We heard the representative say that this is a government statement that is not good for Norway, and that the government is concerned about driving. Then I want to address a capper that the centre party likes to ride, which is not good for Norway, namely that you want to remove the EEA Agreement, because it is a bad thing. According to the programme of the Centre Party, this is even a threat to democracy. A somewhat close corporate life – those who create our jobs, those who lay the basis for our well-being – is very clear that the EEA Agreement is the basis for the creation of value added. This, as well as hundreds of thousands of jobs, will be wasted and replaced by trade and cooperation agreements. When the United Kingdom, with its robust economy and its 66 million inhabitants, is not in the vicinity of landing something that once reaches the EEA Agreement to the knees, what is the trumps of the representative in the sleeve? I'm very excited about the answer, and I'm also going to get it translated into English, because the United Kingdom might also like to hear it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e695	There is no secret that since the adoption of the EEA Agreement, the Central Party has wanted Norway to withdraw from it and replace it with a general free trade agreement – as is the case with other countries in the world. I think there are a lot of good reasons for that. Some of the reasons are very clear in some of the things that stand before us. I don't know if the representative saw the debate at the NRK last night. But the whole debate on cabotage and these lice pay to drivers driving in Norway, and the way in which you take advantage of that type of car transport, is one and only a result of the EEA Agreement. It's a very unfortunate side. The council stood there completely helpless and was unable to say anything about what he would manage to do with it. He said we should have a dialogue with the European Union. I guess he's been saying that for the last four years, I think. But the problem is that the kind of consequences of the agreement are the result of the agreement itself, and it is one of the things that makes the centre party critical to the agreement – as well as a number of other things.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e701	We hear the representative Arnstad say that it should be replaced by one general free trade agreement. I think Switzerland has 120 agreements with the EU – or more – so how to replace it with one agreement, I want to get an answer. So I'm still asking for an answer to the question: what makes us succeed in getting something better than the EEA Agreement in agreements and negotiations with the EU than Britain can do, than Switzerland can? We are, after all, a much smaller economy and a much smaller population. I also think the business community, which is listening to this debate, is very concerned. Single examples from the EU and the EEA Agreement can be found that are challenging, but there are hundreds of thousands of jobs at stake here. So I still want to hear the answer to what it is to be replaced by.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e716	It's probably opportunistic of the Right, but I think it's a little strange that they compare us to the United Kingdom. They compare us to a country that has been a member of the EU for 40 years and is going out. Fortunately, Norway has never agreed to join the EU. We have never entered the European Union. For us, it is about what kind of trade cooperation we as a maritime country are going to have with the European Union. Unlike the Right Party, the Centre considers that it is possible and reasonable to conclude normal trade cooperation based on free trade agreements instead of an EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e721	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e726	Let me first congratulate the Councils, both those sitting in front, and those sitting in the backseat. With the quadruple government, Erna Solberg on the surface has taken a step towards the centre, but in reality Norwegian policy is taking a step to the right. On the one hand, the size has been a brake on right-hand inequality policy, the desire to rig the tax system for the benefit of the economic elite, the desire to give more power to managers and trade unions in the labour market, the desire to privatise and commercialize more of the community has owned and operated. Now that the Christian People's Party has joined the government and we have a majority government, they have at the same time clearly shown how they prioritise. There are narrow specificities, such as narrowing down the abortion law and vetoing new biotechnology, issues in which the government is thus taking a strong stand with the majority of the people and what is really the majority of the Biggest, which is prioritised. The Christian People's Party has not only chosen a side; they have chosen what kind of party they will be. Then there is no less inequality and stronger communion that is lifted up, unfortunately. That means that the brake block is gone, and that we have to rely on a majority of too much more economic Right Party and Advance Party policy than we have seen before. This is a Right Party government in which the Christian People's Party and the Left are members, a government in which the Right Party and the Advance Party govern the economy, where the Christian People's Party governs morality and the Left. So the position in the hall is appropriate. SV shall be the leading opposition in all that has to do with fair distribution and the environment. We are going to be in a tough opposition, and we are going to be in a policy for the many, instead of a policy for the few at the top. Although the government has a majority, unpopular policies can be stopped. The Prime Minister had to give in to the people's will in the question of the abortion law § 2 (c). It was a great victory for all who went in the streets of the harvest to defend women's right to decide over their own lives. At a time when differences in power and wealth are increasing in Norway, government promises more top-class policy. The government still has the most care for the economic elite. There are promises of new tax cuts for people with equity. At the same time, it is a group that is given a very clear promise that they will not receive tax relief, and it is people who are part of a trade union. When we know that social dumping is spreading in industry, in construction sites, on roads, and all the way into our welfare state, it's a little bit of an incredible policy. If there's one thing this hall should be able to gather about now, it's the desire for more professional organization, because it's the core wall of work for a society of small differences. Therefore, SV is promoting proposals today to step up the trade union deduction. The biggest disappointment with the government statement is the lack of action against climate change. There are quite a few points in the climate section, but they do not contain what we need, namely concrete measures to reduce emissions. We have enough of our goals, ambitions and investigations – we have too little concrete emissions cut. While time runs out, this government is trapped by its own disunity. I heard with interest that the Prime Minister invited for broad cooperation and settlement yesterday. Well, it's hard to take it seriously as long as the government continues to argue against cooperation on what should be the most obvious point, namely to do what previous governments have done: invite to a broad climate settlement. It's the test of whether this government is willing to go in for such cooperation, because that's the case where we need broad cooperation more than anything else. That is why SV is also promoting proposals today that the government must take the initiative to achieve a broad climate settlement. Finally, I would like to make a call to the Prime Minister, because high electricity prices provide insecurity among people with poor advice, and many are uncertain about how to pay the bills. In 2011, the then government went in for an extra payment to those who have housing support, many of those who have the worst income in our society. [[The President clubs again.]] I would encourage the Prime Minister to do the same. Then I'll take up the suggestions that are distributed.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e747	It's important that we keep speaking time, otherwise we won't finish today. The representative Audun Lighthouse has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e756	Data from the SSB show that increasing differences in living conditions are primarily due to increased immigration. The Brochmann 2 committee found out that unemployment is higher among immigrants and refugees who have come here via family immigration, and they earn about half of what is average Norwegian salary. It's not that hard to understand, because of course it takes time to learn a new language, get a profession and get to work. Karin Andersen claims that the income differences are due to the Norwegian tax system. SV will not talk at all about the fact that increased immigration leads to more children growing up in low-income families. SVs Kari Elisabeth Kaski recently said to the Web newspaper: ‘It is understandable that the Right is very concerned about finding that immigration is the main reason why there are more poor children. Of course, it is more pleasant than debates that the government makes the tax system less redistributive each year.’ Is it, then, that SV denies that increasing immigration can lead to more low-income families, and that this is a simple... [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e768	Lighthouse - please.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e773	I think the right has to clear up a little bit in this debate, because inequality has a lot of explanations, among other things. that at the top they are moving away, the development of working life – and there are a number of things that can be linked to immigration. Differences have many more explanations than one. When it comes to poverty, it's the same thing. There are many children with immigrant backgrounds who are poor, but we have also had an increase in poverty among those called ethnic Norwegian children. Reducing it until an immigration debate is wrong. Besides, very many of the solutions are the same. If we increase child-responsiveness, we do something with poverty in the families. In addition, there is one immigration debate that the right-hand side will never take, and it is the one that is linked to how we handle labour migration. We are in favour of labour immigration, but we must organise labour immigration so that all work in this country is done under Norwegian wage and work conditions. Unfortunately, the government doesn't agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e782	The figures from the SSB Living Conditions Survey show that increasing differences are mainly due to immigration. This is a challenge we have to take seriously. Nevertheless, SV’s representatives insist that it is this government’s tax policy that helps to increase differences. SV's solutions are very little about strengthening social mobility through school and working life, since they are opposed to demanding teachers' skills, demanding that students attend secondary school, or that Nav's unemployed meet with demands for activity. Why does SV insist on having a debate on social differences based on a fictitious representation – that is the general tax rate that causes us to have increasing inequalities – while wanting to have a more liberal immigration policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e789	Both the presentation of what is due to inequality and the presentation of what SV says are incorrect. First, it's that an important part of the inequality trend is that they're pulling from the top. This government is pursuing a policy that can strengthen it. Secondly, it is not at all right for SV not to take the debate on immigration, but we have the proposals that make us succeed better in integrating it. And we're willing to take the discussion the right side never takes, that's what happens in our working life when they with the lowest wages depend on wage developments. It's a question – not about immigrants taking jobs from the Nordics, not about blaming immigrants, but about how we, as politicians, organize our working life. There is a fundamental question in the inequality debate ahead, but the government is following the path, among other things. because they are afraid to discuss the EEA.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e797	Let's take social mobility, then. We want to strengthen social mobility through school and working life. Why is SV opposed to demanding increased competence of teachers? Why is SV opposed to demanding that students attend high school? And why is SV against the demand that the unemployed who are at Nav meet with demands for activity in the workplace?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e802	We're too smart. The problem with many of the requirements of this government, for example: In school policy, they are not particularly smart, for example. The fourth requirement in mathematics, which means that many highly qualified young people are not allowed to become teachers at a time when the government is providing teachers in Norwegian classrooms, or the way in which the absenteeism was arranged. Remember, the government really wanted a very rigid model, which would have very serious consequences. We've now got numbers on the table that show that there's an increased risk of drop-outs in high school. Instead of being as self-satisfied as the government is in this debate, I would take it very seriously, because if there is one thing we have to succeed in Norwegian education policy, it is to make sure that young people manage to get through high school instead of falling out.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e807	The Progress Party has had a significant impact on liberalisation in the field of biotechnology. Among other things, we have ensure that young women who are affected by a serious disease that can or will harm eggs permanently are now picked up and stored free of charge. We have also removed the proportion of 17 000 kroner, and we now make it possible to store these eggs further, so that young women get more time to plan their family life. The Progress Party and the Government are also presenting legislative changes that constitute the largest liberalisation of the Biotechnology Act since 2004. Does SV support the liberalisations for which the Progress Party has been implemented in the Biotechnology Act? And what does SV think of them as making no changes in this area in their eight years of majority government?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e816	We're going to look at the proposals that come from the government. In some areas we are for a more liberal biotechnology policy, in others we are not. That's the way it works in a lot of games. What we strongly oppose is giving one party a veto over biotechnology policy, as the Progress Party has been in practice involved. It's not wise at a time when technology is developing, where we need to take the ethical debates, but where we also need to see the opportunities that lie in this, and which I think we agree on, among other things. in order that people who wish to have children may have children. That's SV for. The party of progress is for that, too. But unfortunately, the government statement does not reflect that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e823	The Progress Party is pleased with the cooperation we have had with SV in liberalising the field of biotechnology, but I am convinced that the representative Lightbakken is critical of giving one party the opportunity to have veto rights in matters of the Biotechnology Act. For 2005–2013, SV was in a majority government with the Centre Party, and during that period no changes were made to the Biotechnology Act. Egg donation was not allowed; assisted fertilisation was not allowed for solitude. Will the representative Lysbakken admit that he himself, when SV has ruled in a majority government, has granted veto to other parties?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e830	That one in connection with this government statement takes disagreements on this issue of the table in advance, I believe is a very special way to do it. So, of course, there's disagreement between the parties. It's an honest thing. And issues of biotechnology often do not follow the traditional blocklines. That's absolutely true. It's going on across the board. There may also be disagreements within parties. In our party there are sometimes disagreements in these questions. I'm not afraid of it, because it's a demanding question. Often you have to weigh for and against, so we have also had internal discussions on many of these things. And we're going to have that in the future. But to say in advance that this is decided, by saying in advance that the Christian People's Party rules, is what becomes the government's policy, I think I'm giving myself a good chance to both hang on in time and to meet some of the expectations I think many of our citizens have for us.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e839	I note that the representative Lightbaking is very satisfied with his rhetorical point that the Left has no impact on this government. I would recommend him to listen further to the debate, and hear about all the matters for which we have been implemented. I thought I'd promise what has been one of the main priorities for the Left, namely to raise those who need it the most, and ensure all children equal opportunities despite their parents' finances. Among other things, we have ensured almost 50,000 children nearly free kindergartens, and with the Granavolden platform, we are continuing this clear social profile with targeted measures such as increasing child welfare for children under six years of age, increasing one-off benefits and a number of other measures, including: also free core time in SFO. Very familiar has also traditionally fought for many of these cases. The difference between Left and SV has been that while we give priority to those who need it the most, SV has wanted to give these goods to absolutely everyone, also to those who have very good income. So when SV then says in the debate about the government statement that they record that we give to the upper class, I wonder if it is not SV who, with their universal responses to all social challenges, gives the most to the upper class, while the government and the Left give more to those who need it the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e848	Part of the representative Melby refers to are areas where the Left and Christian People's Party, either individually or collectively, has been exactly what I described in my post: a brake pad – and has provided a different direction of policy through the budgetary agreements entered into in the Stortinget. We've recognised that before, and I'm at any time willing to recognise that effort again. The problem is that I'm just afraid that, especially in the economic field, this is now disappearing, because a majority government means that the Right Party and the Advance Party will quickly have a large majority for what's most important to them, which is what I like to call top-class politics, while the Left Party and the Christian People's Party are left to prioritize other things. Then the discussion of so-called targeted schemes or universal schemes is huge. I'm burning for a welfare state that applies to everyone. But, in addition, going away from universal schemes often creates poverty traps, which make the situation more difficult for poor families.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e855	I accept that SV and Left have different views about exactly this whether it is right to use universal or targeted schemes. You can discuss which arrangements are the best. However, Audun Lysbakken still believes that it is right to use the label of upper-class policy when we consistently prioritise the children of the families who need it the most, when we give over SEK 7 000 more in child welfare to those who need it the most, namely the families who have children under six years of age, when we give nearly 50 000 children from those families with the lowest income, while SV, when they put in government, provided the maximum price that gave the lower price for absolutely everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e860	Yes, we provided space for all and lower prices for all. I'm very proud of that. What I call top-class politics is, for example, promising new cuts in taxes for people with equity, while we know that this government has implemented a number of unsocial cuts for people with little, for example. disabled dependants with children, e.g. a good number of sick groups, who have been given increased abstinences in physiotherapy, etc., etc. It's top-class politics. So my argument against the Left's line in kindergarten policy is just that it's not enough, and that I fear that if we don't build on the universal kindergarten reform, we risk getting a situation where it becomes more difficult for people with low incomes to work more or get into work, because then they, for example. loses the good as a free place in the nursery.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e869	The Norwegian welfare society has its origins in people who saw sickness, suffering, nudity and poverty, and who jointly did something about it. They did it through ideal actors. We now see what the government platform says about ideal actors, that one will have increased use of non-profit activity. Within the health sector, the part of non-profit activity should be increased. One says that one should take advantage of the action space to ensure ideal actors, and one should get to long-term contracts, just such a non-profit enterprise needs. My question to the representative Lighthouse is: is this to drag politics to the right? Isn't this just to drag politics towards the center, which both the SV and the Christian People's Party have just wanted for non-profit?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e879	What is at the point of non-profit-making well-being and non-profit actors is good. The problem, I think, is what's not there. Because we are e.g. to depart from short-term tenders and from longer-term contracts. It proposed to our government for the protection of children. But once the blue government came up with it, you walked away from it. Then child protection was to be offered again. If one succeeds in this, it's good, but the problem is that there's nothing in this statement about what's essential to succeed in that: limiting the commercial power, the commercial growth in Norwegian welfare. If we really want to secure the ideal future in Norwegian welfare, of which I am very, very concerned, we will implement a ban on profit, which means that the big commercial fighters no longer see Norwegian welfare as an attractive market, and that tax money goes to the welfare of everyone instead of wealth for a few.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e888	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e893	Raisier, greener and more social-liberal policies: The Left set out to take the step from the role of a constructive opposition and cooperation party to a government party a year ago, was clear and clear, and when we have now had the joy of negotiating and snorting a new government platform together with the Christian People's Party central party colleague, in addition to the government colleagues Right and the Progress Party, it is good to be able to establish that the Left has once again had a significant impact on our main business areas. One already heavy bet on school and knowledge is further enhanced. The same applies to the fight against child poverty. We increase ambitions within the environment and climate, and we secure and create jobs across the country. For the sake of our young, coming generations, the world must be closed down by reducing greenhouse gas emissions – enough and fast enough. As one of the world's richest countries, which takes a large part of our revenues from large-scale greenhouse gas industry, we have a great responsibility that drives and role models internationally. In the government platform, we have set up new, more ambitious climate targets. In the short term, we have to implement a new climate cure, developing a concrete follow-up plan for Norway's 45 pst commitments. domestic reduction in the non-quota sector by 2030. That's what we do. by making it more profitable for business to reduce own emissions through the active use of green tax shifts and requirements in different concessions and offers. The benefits of zero-emission vehicles will be passed on and the whole country will have access to fast and efficient charging infrastructure. 20–25 years after the city’s left to stimulate more electric car use, Norway is now on the threshold of a formidable success, with good prospects of achieving the goal of zero-emission cars for all new cars in 2025. Norway is also a driver of technology development that the rest of the world can and will benefit from. We also need to ensure that the various zero technological solutions for heavier vehicles can be developed and put into service, not least hydrogen is an exciting string in this way. National transport plan shall be followed up, with a balance between road and track, and line-wise high-speed rail arrangements shall be initiated. I have recorded that the opposition party claims that the breakthrough to the Left, with the full support of the Christian People's Party, to protect the Lofoten, the West Pole and Senja against oil expansion, is being eliminated by the fact that the cause is far too far won. With such an easy hold to important environmental decisions, all those who are occupied by the eternal value of the area, both in a classical nature protection perspective and in the case of food and value creation – the fish resources – should be congratulated on the fact that the Left has once again contributed to a government that has protected the area of oil activity. For social liberals, freedom is a fundamental value, but it must be free, it must also be free from distress, poverty and inequality. Some of the most heartbreaking in the Norwegian welfare society in 2019 are certain that 80 000-90,000 children grow up in poverty. Therefore, it is unlikely that it is good to be able to determine that the targeted effort to fight child poverty, for example. by introducing free core time into the nursery for children from low-income families, now extended to include the school leave scheme, and that all should have equal opportunity to participate in school-related activities independently of the parent’s economy. The government platform also makes it easier to postpone schooling for children who need it. Municipalities that want to try out, e.g. The system of two scholastic recordings per year is now able to do so. For a social liberal and a world citizen, it is also good to be able to stress that Norway should take an even greater responsibility for people in other countries who are in need and need help, both through a record-high commitment to aid and a brighter refugee policy in areas where it is important to be aware. For example, the year’s standard for receiving quota refugees – 3,000 yearly, which is three times higher than when the red-green batches had multiples and put into government – now established as the new normal. As the parliamentary leader of the Business, Work and Founding Party Left, the government platform is the pure kiosk owner – run and buy! With the over-interpretation at the bottom that what is good for the small enterprises is generally also good for the large ones – not necessarily the opposite – the platform contains a wide and varied list of measures to ensure existing ones and to facilitate the creation of new sustainable jobs. Access to risk capital and so-called competent capital, investors who also know how to run stores – industry – become even easier. The tax incentive scheme for investors and the option taxation should be improved. It should be easier to use public funding, easier for small and newly launched enterprises to compete for public supply, and the conditions for self-employed people should become more competitive. For established industry investing in button shooting and markets where green values are the drivers, we are now completely in port with a very focused, new tool. The new climate investment fund Nysnø shall be capitalised in such a way that Norway will have sufficient and long-term capital to be a co-investor in the scaling up and industrialisation of new green technologies, and also contribute to the creation of even more capital through funds in fund investments and thus further progress in green shifts and industrial conversion. If I, as an ambassador for good living in the countryside, a representative of the vibrant District Norway, complements the business policy review with the agricultural and fisheries policy of the platform, a long-term search for a platform with a more complete policy for value creation and viable districts throughout the country. Last year, I concluded that it is not every day left in government with the Progress Party. Nor is it every day that the Left Party, the Christian People's Party, the Party of Advancement and the Right are united in government. The policy, the government platform, is the decisive explanation that this is now a reality. However, one shall not underestimate interpersonal relationships, party leaders with great mutual trust developed over time, and the party with real will to meet each other. There is little doubt that the Prime Minister will have to take a significant part in the era because a civil gathering – against all odds – is now a reality. The way she has managed to cooperate over time, the experiments and the negotiations last year and this year, is not only political leadership of the most diverse class, but also leadership at the high level: raw, without going on chords with their own principles, knowledge-rich, wise and inclusive. If the majority on the non-socialist side and the multi-ethnic government become the norm in Norwegian politics, it is most up to our four parties themselves – how we manage the plurality, how we govern the country and social development, how individuals are put in the centre, how they each get the same opportunities in life, regardless of the background and the economy of parents or leaders, how we live as we learn – they show trust, take responsibility for themselves and others – and last but not least that we also take care of the minority, the opposition, and show real willingness to discuss and translate suggestions and input from them into concrete policies and changes. All of this will mean that we're going to increase the confidence of the selection selectors in the upcoming options. Responsibility is heavy and important. The left really gets to grips with the task of good and fruitful cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e925	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e930	This government platform is based on a historical restriction of women’s right to self-determined abortion. Self-determined abortions shall hereinafter be reserved only for women who have one child in their stomach. In the evening post we can read that left-leader Trine Skei Grande considers the abortion contractions to be just a break. I've heard about pauseing girlfriendhood, but putting women's rights on hold was new to me. Pregnancy, on the other hand, cannot be interrupted. Then I wonder, what are the implications left over in the platform that were so good and important that they overshadowed women's right to control their own bodies?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e935	As the questioner knows well, the Left opposed the change that lay on the table in the case when a negotiated the question of twin away, foetal reduction, in 2016, and, of course, meant, as the majority, that it should fall under the women's right to decide. At the same time, when we now sit in negotiations and discuss this, we see that foetal reduction of healthy foetuses is a matter that raises many ethical and medical dilemmas, and we are really well behind the solution that came about with the other parties, that one for this type of abortions now has to go through a denominator, and can accept it. It is not that a person loses the right to be twin away, but it is now equated with other abortions that are also carried out after week 12... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e940	For the Workers' Party, it is not appropriate to rock women's right to self-determined abortion, no matter how many children you have in your stomach. As the representative also says, now these women are going to be drawn to a denominator. We have a lot of research on what these denominators do to women who are in a crisis situation. It's unworthy. The right-wing government has also granted the Christian People's Party veto in matters relating to biotechnology, in exchange for government. Then I wonder: is life-saving knowledge that we could get through early ultrasound, or the real majority that is actually in the size of egg donation, also examples of things that are only paused?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e947	There were several questions in one. To take the first one first, if it's the way the denominators work as a big shock to the women, we have to obviously discuss how the denominators work. Then it's worth reminding the representative that what we're doing on the government platform is to be confused like the policy the Labour Party has set and administered for eight years in multi-territorial government, that is, absolutely no change in the way one performs foetal reduction. When it comes to biotechnology, the Left always has the power to fight for changes in biotechnology laws, such as: to co-ordinate egg donation with sperm donation and to provide a single facility for assisted fertilisation. Of course, if these changes are now being put on hold, I'm sorry too. At the same time, the laws of biotechnology were unchanged even over the eight years of the Workers' Party's multi-annual government. Now one will have it just like that on Granavolden as it was when the representative and her party put in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e956	Despite the majority rule, it is clear that solar parliamentarianism should be allowed to live on. Within 24 hours, the Left has raised doubts as to whether they support the government's abortion policy. The representative Abid Q. Raja himself expressed doubts as to whether he supported the government's tax policy on voluntary and indulgences, and Breivik said in the line change instead – or at least he doubted it – that he supported the government's policy on oil and gas and the search for fusion. But enough about it. The question is, to the Left's representative, who talks loud and clear about climate objectives – but climate action is not so much about: can we expect the Left to put in place a CO2 fund for industrial transport before 1 January 2020?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e963	Thank you for the question. If the representative reads the government statement carefully, he sees that the Left now has put in place a mechanism that actually makes it possible to finance a CO2 fund, and that now there is a chance that there will be a CO2 fund that at the other end will also have an economy at the bottom that will enable the same business that will benefit from such a fund, also to be able to relocate, get a win-win solution and apply technology that will avoid paying fees for e.g. greenhouse gas emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e968	I hear what the representative says, but when I heard NHO's director in Political Quarter yesterday, it didn't seem to me like there was any quick solution going on. We have always believed that there were negotiations going on, but it is now said that there are conversations. Enough about that. The representative of the left also spoke about small and medium-sized enterprises in the districts. Norwegian forest has a long tradition and history as a utility forest. The majority of the population have decided to initiate monitoring of potential areas for protection. 10 pst. shall be protected, according to the Government Declaration. This applies, inter alia, to: in Hattfjelldal in Northernland, where the particle board factory Arbor is a corner stone farm. The factory is practically in the middle of the forest and lives on processed forest for building materials – climate friendly as it is. Nevertheless, there are now cuts and cancellations in progress because the forest around is protected or tied up. How does the Left view this rhyme with the focus on climate-friendly and short-term products, industrial development in districts and the aim of supporting small and medium-sized enterprises?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e976	I regret to realize that I do not have enough detailed knowledge to comment directly. Overall, one might say to the forest industry that the government statement is a formidable invitation to long-term thinking and also an invitation to an industry that now really gets long-term, good framework conditions, among other things. by signalling a clear willingness to increase the integration requirement of biofuels into viable biofuels by 2030. It is perhaps one of the heaviest food policy measures we can implement in the light of Norwegian forest owners and Norwegian forest industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e981	The use of forests is crucial to achieving our climate objectives, and then we cannot protect ourselves out of that problem. That's why it's important. But to go a little further in the field of forests: before Christmas, the government concluded an agreement with the EU on common climate targets. It also contains common accounting rules for the use of forests. Norway has a large potential to deforestation more than we do today, but the government has also been able to create considerable uncertainty about the so-called reference route to be notified to the EU. It should have been done before New Year; now it's shot out in time. The question to the Left is this: Do you agree that the use of forests should be counted positively in the climate accounts through active and sustainable forestry, and will the Left ensure that Norway reports and fights for the impact of the reference path that provides the basis for the maximum possible use of Norwegian forest resources in climate change?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e988	I can reassure the representative, all the forest owners in the country and all those associated with the Norwegian forest industry, that the Left, together with the three other government parties, will pursue a long-term forestry policy that we have hardly been in the vicinity of before. This is an industry that is both an important part of climate change resolution and an important part of an active industrial district policy in a country that is so rich in forest resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e993	In the program on the left, it says: ‘Left will enable more people to choose to travel collectively.’ One of the measures mentioned there is the winding-up of the tolling scheme. This is stated in the Government Declaration, but it shall not be liquidated – it shall be doubled. In addition, tax exemptions shall be granted to drive a fossil car to work. Then one might think that the left got a supplement that gave something to those who chose to leave the car, but I cannot find it in the government statement. Why does the government not go in to introduce measures to make it cheaper to travel collectively to work, instead of spending 1 billion. extra to make it cheaper to drive a car to work? How can this measure help to achieve the goals of smaller cars and fewer fossil cars on the roads?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1005	Now I'm going to be so indisputable that I'm going to interrupt a little bit of a review from the negotiations at Granavolden. When we discussed this point, I said that this strictly taken was a measure that the Left had not even had the imagination to come up with when it was the toll-free arrangement. But in respect of good cooperation, we have accepted that point, and we have also accepted an income/tax reduction scheme. I believe that the SV representative can also agree on this, given that it is also a question of retaining the legitimacy of a system that is entirely decisive both in a climate perspective and in order to finance various necessary transport policy measures – whether it is road or it is a matter of collective development. The platform is also full of schemes, including: forwarding the zero emission car benefits, blending requirements for biofuels, etc. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1012	I thank you for the answer, and I'll follow it up a little bit further. Now the Left is, in a way, the green alibi on the bourgeois side of the Right Party-Dominated Government. I have tried to go through this platform with a green lens, but I cannot find any concrete new measures – the left refers to some old ones – any signature on the climate and the environment behind it, and can sunbathe in the shine of it. On the other hand, the Left has consistently voted against many proposals that SV has made, on goods, on the hydrogen pilot project, on investigating autonomous zero-emission ferries instead of these idiotic – excuse me for saying – fjord crossings with all kinds of strange technological solutions that are both environmentally and economically reprehensible. Why has the Left not managed to find any approaches to be able to support any of these proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1019	Once again, if the representative had read the platform with a little bit more humble and benevolent glasses, he would have seen that this is the most ambitious government platform for climate ever. I said in my post that we have put in place new, clear and more ambitious climate targets for both 2030 and 2050. The climate chapter has a set of tools. My name is Enova, which we've already got up to a significantly higher level than when we took over and came to power in 2013, the climate technology system, Nysnø AS, which will really be a very decisive tool to both further develop industrialised technologies that reduce greenhouse gas emissions, simultaneously as a guarantor and facilitate safe jobs in its own industry. CO 2 capture and CO 2 charges use an active one, including: for... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1030	I am sure that Mr Breivik and I agree that we need to strengthen climate policy, not just maintain the status quo. However, some of the victories highlighted by the Left as environmental victories – the most important victories in the environmental field – are to continue the advantages of electric cars, to continue building land power and charging stations and to continue not having oil drilling in the Lofoten, the Vestreålen and Senja. The last thing I think is a little bit like being against testing and pressure at school – and then be happy to have put on a new, first-class exam at school. It's a non-winner. The question really concerns the CO 2 tax. Earlier in the debate we have heard that because of the claims of the Progress Party that it should be compensated in the pump price, the effect of the CO 2 tax will not be achieved in the transport sector. Then my question is how to see a climate impact of the CO 2 tax in the transport sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1046	First of all, a little bit about the electric car advantages: now I commented on the Lofoten, the Vestral and Senja that one can't take this kind of thing for granted. This type of match must be won again and again. Although it now seems that there are very many electric cars on the Norwegian road, not least towards the big cities, the total number of electric cars now represents almost 200,000 cars of almost 3 million cars – 2.6 to 2.7 million. The implementation of the principle that electric car benefits should be passed on is crucial to reduce emissions in one of the sectors that are responsible for the most greenhouse gas emissions, i.e. One third, i.e. the transport sector. Luckily, once we've put in place a mandatory escalation of the CO 2 tax and are going to use the CO 2 tax actively, it generates revenue that allows one to... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1059	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1064	Our Christian and humanistic heritage and tradition have given us values such as human dignity, closeness of mind and trustworthiness. The basis for policy is the view of the individual's unique value, despite different starting points, assumptions and characteristics. Man has an inherent and inviolable self-value, and all humans have the same human dignity. This is the core of the Christian People's Party's policy. I am pleased that this is also the basis of the government statement we are discussing today. That's what's our starting point. At the centre of politics is the families, small communities, the voluntary community and the belief that society is built from below. The Christian People's Party always places the children in the centre, so child reform is so important – a child reform with efforts to combat child poverty. The amount of child benefit is to be increased significantly, by SEK 600 per month for children under the age of 6 years – i.e. SEK 7200 per year. This will take place over two years and come to the top of the 2019 budget agreement, where we increased child benefit by DKK 1000 per year. For children between 6 and 18 years of age, a leisure card shall be introduced. All children should be given the opportunity to experience belonging to important social arenas regardless of the financial situation of their parents. Child poverty in today’s Norway is largely about children experiencing exclusion from social cohesion because of the economic situation of their families. Therefore, we will introduce the leisure card – a support for leisure activities for all children aged 6 to 18. Equivalence reform should make it easier for families who are expecting or already have children with special needs. The fight against the system shall be replaced by a helping hand, whether it is a separate coordinator or it is better and simpler social welfare schemes. Don't look back, because that's not what you're going to call it in the vocabulary. That's true, but it's also true that today's government is a result of systematic cooperation in the Storting over time. In cooperation with the Right, the Advance Party and the Left in the Stortinget, the Christian People's Party has gained considerable impact. I can mention issues such as doubling the cash support, teaching standards, the KRLE degree at school, statutory entitlement to hospitalization, regional reform, increased assistance, a strong commitment to trafficking, drug reform, child escalation plans and young people's mental health and care. The list could have been much longer. Now we have a political platform that points forward, which is the basis for our work. The Christian cultural heritage carries important values. The inviolability of human dignity, the administrative responsibility and responsibility for our fellow human beings are these kinds of values. At the same time, Christian democracy is something more, it is an idea that the most crucial thing in society is not the state or politics, but the community maintained by families, religious communities, volunteering and institutions. That is why it is not all that the State should take responsibility for alone. Values such as honesty and personal responsibility contribute to the creation of a good society for all, where the small communities are at the centre. The Christian People's Party's policy of innovation and entrepreneurship has long roots. Hans Nielsen Hauge traveled around the country and started business at the end of the 1700s. He created a movement of work, knowledge and innovation. And the tracks we see today. This is also an important part of cultural heritage – an heritage that has given us durable values and is the foundation of a modern food and agricultural policy. I welcome the strength of this government's industrial and agricultural policy: better framework conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises and for entrepreneurial activities and an offensive policy for active agriculture throughout the country. Security for generations following us is about good framework conditions for industrial development, agriculture and fisheries. It is about access to new, green jobs – both private and public. It is about the development of new technologies, more broadband to the whole country, about roads, new roads, maintenance of old roads and public transport. It is about a good community economy, security of good health services and schools where people live, and a strong and modern defence. The Government Declaration provides a good starting point for the job to be done in all policy areas. We're ready to get to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1086	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1091	First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Gruvan as the newly elected parliamentary leader of the Christian People's Party and the entry of the Christian People's Party into the government. It could be expected that a government expansion with the Christian People’s Party would move politics closer to the center. It is therefore surprising and disappointing that the Christian People's Party ensures a majority for large-scale privatisation in the health and care sector. The right-wing government says in the Granavolden platform that they want to copy a free user choice system in the municipalities, according to Sweden's model, introduced by the neoliberal Reinfeldt government. After a simple authorisation process, companies will have the right to offer e.g.: home services. Providers may withdraw at short notice or go bankrupt, and then their customers must find a new supplier, or the municipal service must take over. In Sweden, there is no distinction between commercial and non-profit actors. My question to the representative Gruvan is what Christian People's Party wants to achieve with the introduction of the Swedish model in Norwegian health and care services.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1100	The Christian People's Party believes that the health policies underlying this platform give a strong and clear public responsibility for the services we want to perform – and are to perform – for all those in need of health care. That we have a combination of different solutions, both public, private and, not least, non-profit health services, is part of our policy. We believe that together this could help and help to make healthcare good. We are concerned with quality, and we who represent the public have a responsibility to ensure that the quality is followed up through the services provided to the individual user.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1105	Yes, the Labour Party and the Christian People's Party have found themselves together in many important matters in the past year and a half. We have been strengthened by day services for people with dementia, we have received a majority of nutrition strategies for the elderly, we have ensured that there are still subsidies for rehabilitation of nursing homes, and we have also agreed that state funding is not the way to go to ensure the best possible care for the elderly in the municipalities. The Christian People's Party has now agreed to extend the attempt to finance the elderly. My question to Gruvan is whether he has lost confidence that the municipalities are best suited to provide good services for his residents.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1112	The municipalities have a responsibility to offer elderly caregivers, and they manage that responsibility very well. The municipalities are able to do this and need to prioritise these problems even more in the future, given that we're getting older, we're getting more dents, and we need more care. We believe that what we are doing here – by providing an opportunity for government funding as well – is a choice that individual municipalities can make. There's been some experience with that. Some experiences have been good, and we want this to be an opportunity to choose, without us thus assuming that the municipalities are not doing that task in a good way. On the contrary, we have very good care for the elderly, which is well managed by the municipalities today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1117	For some municipalities, they have come to the conclusion that property taxes are necessary to finance the care of the elderly. Now there is a roof on how much the municipalities can take, which is lower than what they have had in the past. Good care for the elderly depends on a good municipal economy, so the Workers' Party has considerably more to the municipalities in our alternative state budget. How will the Christian People's Party compensate the municipalities for the lost income they now receive, as a result of a lower ceiling on property taxes? What should the Christian People's Party do so that those municipalities can still provide equal care for the elderly?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1124	The municipalities have recently had a consistently good municipal economy. We have seen that the municipalities have now delivered profits, we have seen that many municipalities have come out of the ROBEK list, which many of them were on 5-10 years ago, so we have seen a positive development. We believe that the municipalities will be taken good care of by the new government. We want to ensure that municipalities have access to an economy that enables them to deliver the services they are obliged to deliver, with the quality that is expected. So we think that even if there's a change in the prom in terms of property taxes, this won't help to weaken the municipalities' economy. The government takes that responsibility and will ensure that the municipalities are able to do the tasks they will have through a reasonable use of the resources they have available.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1131	Congratulations on your job! It was a fine article about the values of the Christian People's Party, but I can't see that they're going through the government platform, and I'm thinking in particular about what's going on about putting up competition and market righting the public sector. It seemed that the Right Party and the Advance Party with the Christian People's Party in government can turn up the pace of increasing the privatisation of our health care system. Free treatment options shall be expanded, free choice shall be introduced into municipalities, and private providers shall compete for the provision of publicly funded health services. Such a policy will not only weaken our common public health system, but it will also dispel the ideals. This is not the Christian People's Party that I know. How does it feel to win with individual things, but lose the battle for the most important: the values that will underpin the political direction that will take place in our country?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1140	The Christian People's Party is concerned about and believes that through this government platform we can deliver the quality of services to those who really need it. We believe that the organisation of the healthcare system could just contribute to that. We need a strong public sector, but we also need tasks from private suppliers and not least the non-profit sector. I think the Central Party could also sign some of the formulations we have in terms of strengthening the non-profit sector, in terms of ensuring their ability to provide services in a future healthcare system, as formulated in the platform. We don't want to add up to a development that can be perceived as a privatisation to impair quality. We want a strong ideal feature, and we also want private suppliers, but quality is here in focus.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1145	I believed the Christian People's Party and the Center Party was some that we wanted private ideal offerers. What permeates the government platform is that there should be competition between private and public, and then there should be no distinction between private commercial and non-profit. I'm deeply concerned about the part of the ideals here, despite other good formulations about the ideals. Another point of the government platform relates to the alcohol policy, where I was surprised that the Progress Party was winning. The size decision to streamline the tax-free quota is repealed. The wine monopoly will have an open hour longer on Saturday afternoon – it will clearly lead to increased consumption. How can the Christian People's Party defend for its core voters that they support a policy for the privatisation of our public health services and for the liberalisation of alcohol policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1152	Let me just say first that in the case of the ideals, they must also be secured in the bidding rounds in the future, as is also stated by the platform. We are concerned that the alcohol policy should be firm. We want a strong and strong monopoly on wine. It has proved to be a success. In fact, we also want the wine monopoly to have an opportunity to participate in a competition for the sale of alcohol at our airports. That means further strengthening of the wine monopoly, which we have great faith in in the future. There are also clear formulations in the platform on a national strategy in this area, which can help reduce consumption, and in a way that reduces adverse health effects. So we believe that we have a platform that is clear on basing on the objectives for which there has been a majority in the Storting in this particular area.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1160	In the last few days, we've been given insights into a census done at St. Olav's hospital. We now know that the vast majority of the very few foetal reductions in Norway relate to women who have travelled abroad to get help in getting pregnant. The background to this is a practice of fertility treatment where more eggs are added. This is not the practice in Norway, in fertility treatment here. So I wonder: does the Christian People's Party sympathize with women who are involuntarily childless and go abroad? And, from a preventive perspective, is it not more logical to allow egg donation and fertility treatment for lone women in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1165	The question of egg donation has many pages, on which the representative is also present. It is about people who are involuntarily childless, but it is also about other ethical aspects that it is important that we discuss, among other things. the child's right to a mother and a father. It's about knowing its origin. We are concerned that we have legislation in this area that takes all those considerations, respects them and practices them in a good way. That is why we have been committed to maintaining the legislation we have in this area, and we are pleased that we have had a clear impact on the issue of egg donation, on the government platform on which we are now based.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1172	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1177	First, I would like to congratulate the government on the increase in the family. If the Prime Minister manages three parties, I'm sure she'll do four! Unfortunately, the government platform has not given us high expectations for people and the environment. From a climate point of view, there are three main problems with this platform: Firstly, a lookout for binding concrete measures in the climate must be carried out, which means that the government parties have once again exposed the difficult discussions. Only four of the 38 bullet points on climate in this platform are concrete measures to cut emissions in Norway. Secondly, the government has filled in the list of climate action already taken by Norway. It is little impressive that the government will continue to build land power and charging stations in our time, without saying anything about pace. Where are the measures reflecting the UN 1.5 degree report coming from? For a marginal increase in the CO2 tax is not enough, and especially not when the Progress Party, which we have been through several times in the debate so far today, has had an impact on the government to ensure that this fee is never noticed in the pump price in the transport. And that's what's the third problem with the platform: three of the four biggest polluters in Norway are protected from action. The oil industry must be guaranteed its long-term viability. Several new capacity-enhancing roads are to be built, so passenger cars are protected from the increase in CO2 tax. There are no measures there to limit air traffic. Something is happening to Norway. The trees have begun crawling upwards in our valley sides. Some places are the increase over 100 feet. The ski season in Oslomarka is 40 days shorter. Large parts of the bear forest in Varanger have been destroyed. The permafrost of Svalbard thaws up. It's been warmer than usual there for 97 months in a row. If emissions are not cut at this time, the changes will continue – more and more rapidly, more and more extensive. One of the points of the platform is to create a new Climate Change Course, to explore measures and instruments. The first climate investigation came in 1990. Then I was four years old. At the time, the State pollution authorities recommended moving travelers from passenger cars and aircraft to bicycles, corridors and collectives. Since then, there have been 24 large-scale notifications, NOUs and action analyses – with recommendations on how to cut emissions. In Sweden, the Green and Social Democrats have been supported by the Liberals and the Center Party to form government. The differences between the Swedish and Norwegian Government Platform are clear: The Swedish government has the ambition to become the world's first fossil-free welfare country. The Norwegian Government will facilitate the profitable production of oil and gas in the long term. The Swedish government will initiate the construction of high-speed trains between Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmo and extend the rail system from north to south throughout Sweden. The Norwegian will plan and build new capacity-enhancing roads and only outbound high-speed trains. The Swedish government will carry out a green tax change of 15 billion. kr. The Norwegian Government will increase the CO2 tax by a score of 5 pst. every year. So letting out 1 tonne of CO2 is going to cost the equivalent of seven beers in the city in 2025, against five beers today. The Swedish platform shows that there is the possibility of a cross-block collaboration that delivers on the environment and climate – which provides a policy that works, not just that which deviates away. And in Sweden, the Swedish Democrats are kept out. In Norway, the Progress Party is held close to the Prime Minister's breast, as an environmental and climate brake. The Christian People's Party and the Left now had a unique chance of moving climate policy. That chance is wasted. In the last 115 years, Norway has become one degree warmer. We in the Greens will stop there, and we will show that in opposition. Because the world might be able to do one degree. But we can't do two.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1202	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1207	Thanks to Une Bastholm for a very good post and a good analysis of the political situation both in Norway and Sweden. I think I can agree with almost everything that was said. The Labour Party and the Green Party have worked together on many issues in the Committee and have often agreed and made it clear to the majority – together with the Christian People's Party and in the previous period also with the Left. Now we're going to meet another time. Tomorrow we will be given a first notice of what the new time will be like. The Workers' Party, the Greens' Greens' Party – also much together with the SV and the Centre – is promoting 40 proposals, all of which are being voted down! When the NHO protests, they're being honored by the Right. It shows that we get a tough time in time, and we need to discuss how we can work together. One of the issues that the Labour Party believes we should work together on is the issue of climate risk. There has been a very good report, but for the time being there is a report that is only in the drawer of Siv Jensen. What are the expectations of the Green Party on how to follow up this report politically, and what action do they think should be taken in relation to climate risk?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1216	The President allows this line.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1221	Then I allow myself to reply to the reply. I hope that the report on Norwegian climate risk is still at the top of the pile of government finance councils, Siv Jensen, because it has just come out. What it says, really very clear, and which is alarming, is that the more the world succeeds in climate policy, the more vulnerable one of our biggest export sectors – one of the two really big – the oil sector. That's why some of the things I'm excited about, how much the working party manages to move in the next few years of oil policy. I think it is quite clear that what has been primarily a climate issue is now growing more and more like an economic welfare issue – as much as ecological well-being. For a management party like the Workers' Party, which should be concerned with safe jobs, I also hope to see a change there. It is primarily where the climate risk really lies with Norway, I think. Then we also see that climate change is going to have a major impact on security [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1230	Aujeszky’s disease – for follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1235	Sometimes it is described as a dilemma between fair distribution and climate policy. I rather believe on the contrary that there is a very clear context, because it is the richest who have created the climate problems, and it is the poorest who suffer for it – at least first and hardest. It's international, but we see the same thing in Norway. The urban areas that have the lowest income are those that are hit hardest by, for example: air pollution. But we must nevertheless have a climate policy that is perceived as fair. In line with the fact that it should not be possible for any country to buy itself free, people should not be able to buy themselves free. My question to the Green Party is therefore: how do they think we are going to get a climate policy through the changes we are going to undergo, unless there are less differences than we initially had?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1242	Now I got an opportunity to say something about this expression, to buy myself free of environmental taxes, because I have heard it several times from the left. I think it is a little strange, because environmental and climate taxes are not about buying themselves free or not. What measures if a climate tax works is whether it actually changes behavior, and then it doesn't matter how people's wallet is, I mean. One of the environmental party that the Greens are proposing is that the increase we are adding to the fuel tax goes into a distribution and out again to the people. This means that it should never be included in the State budget; it should not be an income to the State budget. It is to be paid out as an incentive, so you get more in the money book if you make the climate-friendly choices, and then you notice that fee more every year if you don't make those changes. I fully agree that a fair society belongs to a more climate-friendly society. The Greens show in their alternative budget that they can strengthen the community, that they can do something about the social differences and that they can also do 60 pst. Cut until 2030.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1252	Then I got an opportunity for a last line, and it's about what we can do in the municipalities. The Labour Party is to pursue opposition policy here on the Stortinget against the government's climate policy, but we must also do so through our municipal policy. We're going to do what we learned from Gro, think globally and act locally, and when the government has little ambitions, we're going to have it around our municipalities. In Oslo, the ambitions for what they're going to do with Oslo City are greater than what the government has for Norway as a whole. Now the Labour Party and the Greens have been sitting together in the City Council for almost four years, and we are going to elections for four new years. It will be important for how climate policy should be in Oslo, but it will also have something to say about how climate policy should be national. My question to the Green Party is: what do they think is the most important lesson of what we have learned in the ambitious climate policy we have had in Oslo, and which we can also implement at national level?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1259	There are several important lessons. Firstly, we must already be specific in the debates when we agree on the policy, so that we do not postpone the most important discussions. Then we were lucky enough to have negotiated with the part of the Workers' Party that is interested in doing something about the emissions in the cities. The other important lesson is that you have to dry up in some fights. What we discovered when we got into the City Council in Oslo was that the reason why you don't get the bike bet, the reason why you can't get the car traffic down to the city, which means that you get more air pollution, that there is a greater need for the place, that it becomes less roadworthy to walk around for the elderly and children, was that it was at the expense of the cars. Everyone's had this as a goal. It has even been decided in Stortinget that the increase in travellers to the large cities should be taken with collectives, bicycles and meals, not with cars, but nevertheless that means that priority should be given. That is what is the most important lesson, I think, that parties engaged in climate policy and better urban policies must also be in charge of it in negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1266	The new government has – despite the contribution of the representative here – presented the most ambitious climate and environmental platform that has been presented in this room. However, it has been a special fall, the environmental party Dei Green, etc. have been on the path with a mistrust proposal, where one would overthrow the sitting government, and where there were implicit thoughts of a new government there, among other things. The Green Party and the Centre were to sit at the same table. It is then of interest to know what the representative was thinking about a common platform in which the Green Party and the Central Party would only focus on climate policy, for example. for agriculture and passenger car traffic, where there is a great difference between the lot, and where one has a centre party that thinks we make up the tax system when we turn to the green fees. Does the Greens believe that they will benefit from their many tens of billions of climate taxes in conjunction with the Centre Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1271	In fact, I think – frankly – that Norwegian policy is falling quite low when the government parties, at least two of them, have as a strategy every time they are challenged by climate and environmental policies, threatening what the opposition would otherwise have to do – without any negotiations in the opposition either. So we don't know. That's the simple answer. I do not know what I could have done in negotiations with the Labour Party and the Centre Party. All I know is that today we have a government that does not deliver on what is the greatest challenge for all of us. As I was about earlier in the debate, this goes beyond our food security. Coastal workplaces are being affected because the fish are moving northwards. We get more climate refugees. I am not satisfied that the most ambitious platform for climate and environment, if it is now – it is very difficult to measure before you have seen the results, when there are so few measures – but even if it is, it is not good enough, because we know that it is urgent. We have twelve years to halve the emissions. It doesn't seem to be more ambitious than the ones before. Each platform in the future must be more ambitious.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1276	Firstly, the report of the Committee on Climate Change is not a disappointment. It is at the hearing, and the deadline for consultation is 18 March, if the Workers' Party wishes to make representations. During the ACER debate last year, the Greens were a clear champion of the energy market package because climate challenges are not solved alone, but are resolved together with others. This government has provided the most ambitious government platform ever in the field of climate change, but many European countries have not. Therefore, it is good for the EU to lead and force the other countries to take action, but despite the crucial importance of the EU for climate policy in Europe, the Greens do not have a clear position on whether they are in favour of or against Norwegian EU membership. When the representative Bastholm meets, the Greens will vote in an EU vote today ‘do not know’ and if the alternate Stoknes met, they would vote in favour of Norwegian EU membership. So if the environment in the Green Party is the most important thing, why is it not an easy choice to be for the EU?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1283	If I suddenly had to decide on the EU issue here before a referendum, I would at least have hoped that I would have time to take a round with our party. It's true that we haven't taken a stand on it, just like several other parties, which are also divided into that question. ACER was an example of Norway having to link closer to the EU in order to contribute, as we should, to a green shift also in Europe. So I think that is more an example of the fact that the Greens are quite unorthodox when it comes to what Norway should contribute. We have not locked ourselves in solutions or in debates that were in the last century. We want to look at how Norway can now contribute. What we say about the EU is, among other things, that we wish, both in cooperation with the EU and through Norway's role in the EEA Agreement, to contribute to the EU taking on the role that the EU should play in environmental and climate issues. Right now, it seems to me that the EU is more ambitious than Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1288	I thank you for your answer. My next question is this: can the Green Party ever sit in government or support a government that makes no changes to the petroleum tax regime?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1295	There's also something that I should have taken with my party. I am one representative representing 94,788 voters because of the barrier limit, but nevertheless I am responsible for all the voters being taken seriously, and I have a round with my party if I were to make such a big decision. We have said before that it would be completely unnatural to support a government that opens up new permits. We said that in 2017 because we believe that it is one of the most important instruments, the first place one should start if one does not want larger investments in a sector that has more and more economic risks and is a major contributor to climate change in Norway. But if it's going to be a conclusion next time we go into a big choice, I can't say that here and now.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1302	The government is adding up to a continuation of the historic road effort in the new platform. This year, 104 km of new four-field motorway is being opened in Norway, to a great deal of joy for business, motorists and also electric drivers. I wonder how many kilometers of these new roads the Green Party would cut if they got what they wanted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1309	Quite a lot. We probably wouldn't tear the spade out of the hand where the roads are already being built, but what we've seen in, for example. Our alternative state budget – and we also have something we call a Green NTP, that is, a green national transport plan – is where it is natural to stop capacity-seeking motorways, that is, stop them in a natural place, because we believe that these are a very bad priority for our transport budget. We really give priority to what the government is doing in total transport, but we are giving much more priority to public transport and, in particular, to trains.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1316	Now we've got a new government. We've got a government that has a family policy that looks at the time with the family as something good, that has to raise the child's pension for the smallest kids, that says that one should introduce a leisure card for the older kids, that raises the disposable support and connects it to the basic amount, and – not least – that understands that there are more things than the things that can be counted, like counting, such as time to the close relationships and safe families. Does the Environment Party support the Green Party's shift and policy, or does the Green Party see itself as part of the left-wing team that is engaged in family planning and that opposes the rise in child welfare and cash support – and that does not understand that securing families and having time with them can mean something more than just a percentage of GDP?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1324	I hope I caught up with the question. I don't think all the parties on the left would agree that they are critical of the increase in child welfare. We heard a debate on this earlier today. What we in the Greens are doing is we are increasing child welfare, but we also differentiate it. We triple the one-time support – perhaps the Christian People's Party will see to the next time they enter into negotiations on the state budget – and we will turn the one-time support into proper parental killers, because we believe it is unreasonable that differences in Norway should be inherited when people have children. We have to make sure that when people have children, it has to be just as good and safe, no matter what your wallet says. When it comes to time, there's one of the interesting things in which I think the Green Party and the Christian People's Party have a part in common. After all, I had hoped that the Christian People's Party (Christian People's Party) would be more effective in this government on that part of the family policy – and indeed the quality of life policy – to Norway, because I think we need to take seriously that more and more people are experiencing stress and pressure in their everyday lives that goes beyond the fact that it is a little uncomfortable, for example. it leads to more... [[President clubs]] [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1333	Then the line change is changed, and we go back to the regular list of speakers.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1338	We are living at a time when injustice is growing, uncertainty is growing, and the need for a basic settlement of global warming is acute. Before people like to talk about Cohesion Norway, now we're talking about Difference Norway. Those who grow up today can be the first generation in over a hundred years that gets it more intimidating than their parents. They'll ask us what we did to stop the growing gap between them on top and common people. So we can't answer that because we increased the tax gifts to them at the top and increased the fees for them at the bottom. But that's the answer from Erna Solberg, Siv Jensen and the new government. They'll ask us what we did to avoid catastrophic temperature increases. Then the answer should not be that we let the oil industry continue as before and sent more and more of the flow from the hydroelectric power out of the country into cables and gave us the opportunity to build new, environmentally friendly industry. Nor should it be that we are concerned that new technology and so-called green capitalism could save us, despite the fact that we knew that eternal growth on a planet with limited resources is completely impossible over time. But this is the answer from Erna Solberg. They will also ask us what we did when the trade unions were severely weakened and the Norwegian model really needed our help. In that case, it should not be the answer that we doubted the free flow of the EEA Agreement, we assured employers the possibility of replacing workers with Norwegian pay terms with workers with poor conditions. But that's exactly the answer from Erna Solberg and her new four-headed government. They'll ask us what we did when women's rights suddenly became a negotiating card in a raw power game. The answer should not be that we give in. But that's what was the answer from Erna Solberg. And they'll ask us what we did when the global purchasing funds for real took the welfare state, when our kindergartens were no longer ours, but owned by buying funds in tax havens. Then the answer cannot be that we closed our eyes, and then we introduced private treatment choices in the municipality, which opened up to even more welfare professionals right into municipal welfare. – Cut and glue from the mistakes they have made in Sweden. But that was the answer from Erna Solberg and her new government. On Granavolden, Swedish states were obviously fine for Sylvi Listhaug. Now the power prices are sky high. Many Norwegians are horrifying at the next power bill, but there is little comfort in finding them in the government platform. On the other hand, there is loyalty to Acer, to the EU, about new export cables to the rest of the world that apply, with increased prices as a result. With sky-high power prices, the state is charging extra money in VAT from people's electricity bills, and that's quite unmusical, to put it mildly. Red proposes that those who have such poor advice that they receive state housing should receive an additional payment. We have taken that from a proposal promoted by the Right, Left and Christian People's Party during the last power shock in 2011. We are promoting the same proposal on the Storting today, and expect these parties to support the proposal they themselves were for just a few years ago. Red is going to be the most obvious opposition to this government. The negotiations are over, but the struggle for what they are going to do has begun. And we've made Erna Solberg turn around before. Just remember the struggle to prevent Sunday-open shops, the sale of the Fly train, and not least the dispute over the right of reservation. Time and again, public mobilization has given Norway a new course. They've turned around before, and we're going to make sure they have to turn around again. With that, I'll take up Red's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1361	Then the representative Björn Moxnes mentioned the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1368	The representative took up the negative developments in working life in his post. As was said, we've got a new, four-headed government. The government statement gives few answers, as was also said, to what to do to increase the level of organisation of work and what the government will do to fight social dumping. I would like to hear the representative of Moxnes’ thoughts about what he thinks about the development of working life under this government when you look at a government statement without ambition.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1373	There is no doubt that those who really had reason to be satisfied when they had agreed on Granavolden were the rich people who sponsor the Right election campaign. They're now getting in bag and bag. They receive a continuation of the Right’s economic policy with tax cuts for the richest and tax increases for those who have poor advice. They have secured the majority for it because the Christian People's Party has joined the government. The majority of the population – the opposition together with the Christian People's Party – decided last year to ask the government to submit proposals to ensure that more people join trade unions. We haven't heard anything about it since then. On the contrary, they vote against the opposition's proposal to ensure more power for workers. They want more people to be temporary in their working life, and they do nothing against social dumping. They place the EEA and Brussels and the EU’s concern at ensuring that we have good conditions for workers in Norway. So I'm pretty pessimistic about the government, but optimistic about the next elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1380	After all the sun brands, the option of this government at the next big shot will be a government made up of the Workers' Party, with SV and Red on the tip. There are two parties that have their own orientation in Norwegian defence and security policy. They want, among other things: reporting Norway out of NATO and having little to do with transatlantic cooperation. The question is: in such a situation will Red take the aim of putting pressure on the Labour Party and such a government to notify Norway out of NATO, thus undermining the security guarantee for Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1391	Norway needs a new and much more responsible foreign policy than the one we have today, under a government that places Norway's record in subjugating Norway The United States by allowing permanent American military bases on Norwegian soil, which increases the tension with Russia, draws us deeper into a dangerous storm strike and is an irresponsible foreign policy, which governments from 1945 until now failed to enter, but which today's government is moving us deeper and deeper into. Red will fight for a new majority in Norway to pursue an independent foreign policy, which can dampen the tension between the major powers, prevent new arms races and, in particular, ensure the sovereignty and interests of the Norwegian people. We don't have an interest in becoming some kind of a marshal area for the Great Act War on Norwegian soil. We're interested in getting the voltage down, not up – that's what Red will fight for.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1398	About 80 pst. of our exports goes to the EU/EEA area. In other words, the EEA Agreement is crucial for the value creation of Norwegian enterprises, for Norwegian jobs and for our future well-being. At the same time, we see that our Western neighbours are about to leave European cooperation. The Red Party believes that Norway should follow the same path as the United Kingdom and negotiate a separate agreement with the EU. In the United Kingdom, there is now a political chaos without equal. Politicians are totally paralysed, and it is difficult to see how they will agree on anything, which is obviously very demanding for both business and citizens. In view of this, I wonder what the representative of Moxnes thinks we can learn from the situation in the United Kingdom.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1405	First of all, we must never think about joining the European Union. Departing is almost impossible, and they punish a country where the people want to go out – you are punished, pressed and squandered by Brussels. So we never have to think about doing what the Labour Party and the Right-Tops want: going into the EU. That's the first lesson. The second lesson is that in Norway we have sold our goods to countries in the EU for many, many years, long before we got an EEA agreement. The question is: If Norway cancels the agreement, will the EU stop needing Norway's aluminium, which is an input into the EU car industry? Don't they need Norwegian oil and gas? Will they stop eating our fish, which is to the extent also excluded from the EEA Agreement? Of course, the EU will trade with Norway even without the EEA Agreement. They have 150 agreements on trade with other countries without requiring to dictate the laws and regulations of those countries that we have with the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1413	NATO is the world's most successful defence alliance and has helped to secure democracy and peace in Europe in the last 70 years – unlike countries that the Red Party has historically promised as ideal states. In the Red World, who is Norway's closest ally, and who is going to replace the security guarantee NATO and our allies, when the Red doctrine may apply, and we stand there without a NATO?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1418	There is a country east of Norway called Sweden, which has never been a member of NATO, and which has been quite successful without being a member of NATO. Many in Norway and in Nordic countries want closer cooperation between the Nordic countries on defence because many see that what the United States is doing, and what Russia is doing, is a mutual escalation of the level of conflict, which could be fatal to world peace, and not least for those countries that are in the shot line between the major acts, it should collapse. If we continue our course, to make Norway even more a marshalling area for the US Marines, it is asked whether people in Trøndelag and in North Norway are particularly pleased with a security guarantee that involves a major war on Norwegian soil.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1423	I choose to pursue the reasoning of the representative of Moxnes. I don't take it seriously, but I'm following it. Is it so to understand that Sweden will be our closest ally in such a situation? Sweden is a country that has too few soldiers to defend itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1428	It has once been revealed in history what was part of the security guarantee to NATO when there was a possible Russian attack on Norway, and it was nuclear bombing all north of Trondheim, if I remember correctly. Of course it will stop Russian troops. Whether there's something they'll be happy about in Trøndelag, Nordland, Troms and Finnmark is another question. The point is this: we are interested in getting the tension down, having a predictable relationship with our neighbor in the east, which is a great power – not of escalating the conflict, like the United States and NATO, also under Jens Stoltenberg, now. It is fatal for Norwegian safety and for the safety of its inhabitants. We want relaxation over increased voltage. That's the core of Red's defence policy, unlike the Right, which no matter what matters to the United States.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1435	It is interesting to listen to the rallies of the representative of Moxnes about freedom of choice, but it is clear that when you know which regimes and systems the representative of Moxnes thinks are good, it is probably that choice – that people should have the opportunity to choose – is something that the Moxnes are not happy about. He's more concerned with systems than with the people who're going to get the services provided. I know that Moxnes and Red are very much in favour of the recommuneration that you're doing in the Municipality of Oslo, and spend money on changing systems instead of spending money on what's important, the people. Then I have to ask the question: How can the representative Moxnes and Red believe that it is solidarity and right – and better – to those who do not get the services because it is not money, to take care of the systems instead of taking care of the people who are to be helped, and the services that the municipality is to provide?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1442	The President would remind the representative of Hoksrud that the ‘raljera’ is not a parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1447	There was a lot of sourness, to say it like this, in that question. First, Red is fighting for the municipalities to get more of the value creation and have more money at their disposal for the care of the elderly outside the municipalities. We are moving towards the strupping of the municipal economy, which unfortunately we see with the Progress Party in government. Secondly, Red is against a few billionaires getting millions of taxpayers out of old age care, taking money from nursing homes and from home services that should have gone to give the elderly the best possible offer. The fact that the Advance Party is in favour of this enrichment at the expense of the elderly is the choice of the Advance Party. We are to ensure a warm and dignified care for the elderly, with a variety of public and ideal offers, but we are against money being taken out of well-being. That is why we are also in favour of a ban on profit, which the Progress Party obviously does not agree with us.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1452	I've noticed Red's characteristics of the four-headed government. I have to say that I am impressed by the boldness, or homelessness, when you stand for a political model that history has so thoroughly shown that has played down in the countries it has been tried out. Nevertheless, a declaration of government, based on solid experience from four democratic parties, is condemned north and down. I read in Red's principal program to see if they had left their Marxist legacy, but of course they didn't. The armed revolution was properly replaced by democratic revolution, but equally fully revolution. Does the representative of Moxnes believe that his constituents are aware that Red sings modernized versions of the same manner that has expired in Russia, China and a number of other states, who reluctantly became part of the non-so-democratic embrace of the red revolution?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1459	There are probably few batches that have been more discussed and more enlightened in the public in the last few years than the Red Party programme. At the same time, Red has grown from about 1.2 pst. on the measurements to be now greater than the Christian People's Party and the Left combined. So we can say that it doesn't exactly scare people to read that Red is too much more democracy, and that the great resources in the world, which are currently governed by a tiny, tiny, superclass, are to be managed democratically, for the benefit of the majority of the population, and not least for Earth's and climate's sustainability. This is a many hundred years of freedom struggle, democracy struggle, which we are continuing, to ensure that we do not have a few fields of oligarchs – neither in Norway nor in the world – that rule unreservedly over more resources than the poorest half of the population in the world has. In my view, that is the core of Red's ideology.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1464	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1469	Five years ago, the Progress Party entered the government with a goal of creating a simpler everyday life – for most people and for businesses. At the 2017 election, the voters continued to trust the bourgeois parties, and the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party gained a majority. The voters said no to a red direction for Norway and gave a renewed mandate to the Progress Party in the government. The Granavolden platform and an extended government with Right, Advance Party, Left and Christian People's Party mark a historic four-party government. It is historic for the Progress Party because for the first time we are going to participate in a majority government where we are going to continue to build on and strengthen the policies we have pursued in the last five years. It is also historic for Norway, which receives the first non-socialist majority government since 1983, and which aims to address the major challenges facing Norway. In this platform, we have shown some main challenges that we need to solve. We need to secure Norway for the future. Norway has been through tough times. Now we see an increasing optimism. Freedom goes down, and economic growth goes up. Norway needs more legs to stand on, and therefore we need to continue to convert the Norwegian economy by building infrastructure across the country to create new, profitable jobs. The most valuable thing for Norway is the people who live here. The value of our future work represents most of our national wealth. It is by focusing on knowledge and empowerment that we lay the foundation for the business life of the future and for a sustainable economy. If we are to succeed in creating a sustainable welfare society, we must always make sure that working, investing and creating jobs pay off. Although we work for lower taxes, no one disagrees that everyone has to pay taxes to finance well-being in Norway. Safe jobs and companies that generate profits over time are a pillar of the Norwegian welfare society. Therefore, welfare can never be set up against value creation — one presupposes the other. You have to create to share. We have to enable our businesses to create more, not more taxes. That's how we make sure we give more people a job to go to, and reduce poverty, differences and exclusion. More people live longer in Norway. We're going to be happy for that, but it also gives us some challenges. The sustainability of welfare systems depends on the fact that more people are active and that we are finding new solutions. It requires an inclusive working life. Many people who want to contribute meet closed doors. We have to make sure that more people get a foot within the workplace. Technological development creates great opportunities for new jobs, but also challenges some jobs and demands new skills. If we are to maintain the sustainability of the Norwegian welfare society, we are also totally dependent on more immigrants coming into work. In order to succeed, it is essential to control immigration. In the Granavolden platform, the government is adding several important constraints, and we keep the main lines of immigration policy. At the same time, we need to integrate those who come to our country in a better way, so that more immigrants can get into work and become part of the Norwegian community. For society this is about the fewer who go on social security, the more sustainable our economy becomes. For each individual, it is a matter of security and belonging to the Norwegian society. The government will not only secure Norway; we will also continue to build Norway. With a strong commitment to infrastructure, we are linking the country more strongly. We're going to continue building out better roads, collectives and railways. It provides a better environment and a simpler travel everyday for all of us. I also think it is wise for the government to have ambitions to do this with a smaller percentage of tolls, and to introduce a deduction of toll costs so that the toll load does not become too high for the individual. Security is a prerequisite for freedom. Changes in society and new crime create insecurity. Individuals must feel safe inside and outside their own home. Therefore, crime must be combated, and the threat of terrorism must be taken seriously. For this reason, it is also important to have a separate Minister for Social Security. People who have lived a long life must be confident that they will have a meaningful daily life as they grow older. We're getting older. It will require capacity and quality in the care of the elderly, but will also provide opportunities for smarter solutions and new technologies, for the benefit of caregivers and employees. To solve our common challenges and secure well-being, we need to keep transforming and reforming – thinking new, renewing and making demands on both the public sector, business and ourselves. I look forward to constructive cooperation with Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1498	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1503	Siv Jensen, in government, has contributed to tax cuts with a well-known profile: it goes mostly to them from the past, while it has been taxing the termination benefits of ordinary people, cutting parental death benefits, the day-to-day arrangements, physical treatment, etc. The new thing now is the taxation of benefits in kind. It's pretty strong stories we get here, about taxes and reporting obligations for festival passports for voluntary or different discounts that you get through your work. It must now be reported and taxed. Can the Minister for Finance and the Chairman of the Progress Party justify the reasonableness of this priority? And can she clear up a ambiguity that didn't become less chaotic when we heard the head of the financial committee on the radio today saying that this has been completely wrong? I would like to ask Siv Jensen: is politics wrong? Is this chaos going to be solved, or is it going to continue?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1510	I'm very happy to get that question, because it can help clear up some misunderstandings that the Storting, who has adopted this, seems to have. With regard to the changes that have been made in terms of benefits in kind, they have improved in relation to what they were. What we have done is to place responsibility for reporting this to the employers. In the past, the amount limit was NOK 5000, with a 50 pst discount. Now we've raised that limit to $7,000, with the corresponding discount. Nor is it the case that this government has made changes to the festivals. Those rules have been in place for a long time. To the extent that we have made changes for volunteers and ideals, we have made the legislation more liberal. The task and tax liability limit for one who works for NPISHs has increased from NOK 6000 to NOK 10000. All in all, this government has given relief and greater flexibility in the legislation on benefits in kind, but we place responsibility for reporting it to employers.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1517	Then we can actually say that the chaos is going to continue, because not everyone who's a part of the rules has been so much clearer and better. We can also say that the government stands for creating more and not tax anymore, not for volunteers and bus drivers. When the Workers' Party pointed out the uri-plenary in the tax changes for volunteers at festivals, for example, Jensen replied the same as today, that it was prepared, and that it was easy to find out in new rules. Clearly, cultural industries are not involved. For example, the problem of hard work organised as AS: they are not ideal, but they are limited in time and short-term events. It's still unresolved. There is great concern about those who work hard, fall inside or outside. Does the Council agree with the Labour Party that the issue of cultural events of time limitation is real and must be addressed?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1526	Let me first say that I have said that I would go through this more than I would like to, to see if there are unintended effects that we can best do something with. But I am still concerned about clarifying that in the case of legislation, i.e. the tax rules for festivals and volunteers, this government has not proposed any changes. The law is 25 years old, and that in itself might indicate that we should review it. But it is not this government that has done so, it is a 25-year-old legislation that goes on. If you claim that the chaos will continue, then there are more people who have to take responsibility for it in this room than this government. What we've done is we've liberalized the tax rules in this area. We've made it easier for free newspapers and overtime food, and we've raised the amount limits. But it is true that we have placed the responsibility for paying this in the employer's place. It's about something I thought the Workers' Party agreed that we should have safe working conditions in this country. So if you don't tax these benefits in kind, you get less pension, less sickness and less unemployment.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1533	I'll go over to it with the bus drivers, or they'll be added to the public transport company. I sent yesterday a question about the labour law aspects of the tax changes that have been for example. bus drivers, and asked how Stortinget was oriented about this particular change. They have had annual cards free of charge for years, it was common practice, but someone has had them in collective agreements, others have not. Before, this was not taxable. Therefore, I ask the Council of State, now that I have an opportunity, whether the labour law aspects have been assessed before this change in who was to report in came, and how the Storting is informed about the changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1540	Let me first say that all the changes that have been made have been at the hearing. It has also been fully possible for anyone who has been affected to comment on it. But as I said instead, we are more than willing to look at any unintended effects of this legislation. Essentially, all benefits in kind have been taxable, both before and now, but the main change that has been made is, therefore, placing the responsibility for reporting this with the employer. Right here I have to say that I am a little surprised that the Workers' Party has suddenly thrown itself at this debate, because there was broad support for these changes when they passed the Stortinget. It's about order in the world of work, when this really means that if you don't report this as a tax, you're going to miss out on the rights of the people. It means potentially lower pensions, fewer rights in the event of sickness, fewer rights in the case of unemployment. I thought that the Workers' Party agreed with the government that we should do something about this, in order to secure employees' rights in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1547	It is a pattern of the fiscal policy that the Party leader, Siv Jensen, is pursuing. The commuters have been taken from day one when the Progress Party has had the Minister of Finance. Those who lived in a wreckage had far too good tax arrangements, so they were to be taxed more in the budget last year. Seafarers were to be taxed for their rent supplement. And now it's the bus driver, who has an annual ticket to be taxed. We in the Center Party voted against this even before Christmas, because we saw how it turned out, while the other parties slept an hour and voted through it. Today I heard one of them sleeping an hour, obviously. Henrik Asheim said it could be bureaucratic and petty, what happens now, that the bus driver, who has always had the opportunity to take the bus at a minimum cost, should be taxed harder. Does Minister of Finance Siv Jensen agree that the taxation of ordinary workers that the government now has is bureaucratic and petty?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1554	As I have now said twice, we are more than willing to look at any unintended effects of this, precisely because it is not to be experienced as the representative Battle Violence Vedum characterises it. What is important, on the other hand, is that we have tidy conditions in our working life, that the benefits you get, whether they are wages or benefits in kind, are reported, so that you get the rights you claim in the social security system. It'll be quite encouraging that you get less pension paid on the day you retire, because you've had benefits in kind that it hasn't been taxed. I think it is a responsibility that also rests heavily on employers, to reflect on the way in which they pay their employees. But to the pattern of fiscal policy to which the representative, Mr Vedum, refers: Yes, it is a pattern in the government's tax policy. There has been a systematic reduction in the overall tax burden on business and for most people. An average family has had reliefs of NOK 11 000 under this government, and I expect that to be a good thing. So you have to be a magnification representative to think that there are petty tax concessions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1563	We saw the rash that is now coming, before Christmas, in the treatment of the state budget, and therefore went against it. But then Siv Jensen says she's so proud of what she's done. Today there have been two media uploads – one in the magazine Motor. And what are they reporting? Yeah, it's record toll spending. They've increased by 33 pst. for the last three years under Minister of Finance Siv Jensen, Minister of Transport Ketil Solvik-Olsen and now Jon Georg Dale. And then there's a look-up in the VG, the highest current prices of the time. And what's happened to the power prices? The fees have increased by 36 pst. Since Siv Jensen became the State Council in Norway. So the policy has led to an increase in the price of electricity. And in today's VG, the Council of State Freiberg states that he is a very big fan of building several foreign tables from Norway to the United Kingdom. Does the Minister of Finance and Party leader Siv Jensen think it is okay for us to build more foreign tables if this leads to increased electricity prices in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1570	What I and the government are concerned about is that we should have a well-functioning energy policy in Norway that both ensures that we have access to good, environmentally friendly energy for our households, and that at the same time we have the opportunity to import power when we cannot be self-sufficient with it. Now it is not such that the Senterpartiet has so much to boast of in terms of relief in the electricity charge. During the previous government, the electricity tax went largely up, and in the Central Party's alternative budget for this year, a 1- cent relief was proposed in addition to the government's average. In the case of tolls, I'm getting a little tired of listening to Battle Violence Vedum. He and his party are the foremost champions of increasing tolls in all projects. When he was in government, the toll percentage in Norway was 40 p.m. Under this government, the toll percentage has been reduced to 28. And in the new government platform, we come up with a wide range of measures to reduce the toll burden for most people, especially in the districts. I thought that maybe Battle Violence Vedum would applaud instead of criticizing.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1580	When the Center Party was in government, there was an annual toll collection of about 9 billion. kr for the highest. Now it's about 13 billion. kr, i.e. a huge growth with Siv Jensen as Minister of Finance. She promised just the opposite. All of the country's commuters have experienced a huge tax boost with Siv Jensen as Minister of Finance – a commuter who commutes 10–11 miles, getting NOK 6 000 – 7 000 more in tax this year. And that's the highest current prices of the time. Siv Jensen has conducted a policy where the charge on electricity in Norway has increased by 36 p.m. since she became the Council of State. It's a fact. And Freiberg, who is Minister of Oil and Energy, is not concerned that more foreign tables can lead to even higher power prices, which we also know is a fact. Even in NorthConnect’s own application, this cable will lead to increased electricity prices in Norway. Does it not worry Siv Jensen and the government at all that Norwegian households and Norwegian industry are experiencing ever higher electricity prices, and that it is the highest current price of the time now, plus that the charging investment that Jensen provides also makes it a record in electricity charges in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1589	I would like to remind the representative, Mr Schlagsvold Vedum, that for the first time in the current year's budget, we have reduced the electricity tax for many, many years. There is a problem the representative of the Battle Violence Vedum can in no way adorn himself with. Then the transport budget has increased by 75 pst. since the centre party has been in government. This has happened to the Progress Party in government. When the transport budget increases as much as it does, and the Central Party in all the municipalities of the country is eager to finance it with tolls, it is no wonder that there will also be an increase in the overall toll burden. That's why it's been important for us to get the toll percentage down. Therefore, it has been important for us to strengthen the subsidies to reduce the toll burden. That's why it's been important for us to get a discount on high tolls, just to meet those who really need it. I notice that this is something we have received positive feedback on after this platform became known, it is precisely the measures we are now going to take in the transport sector, because we recognise that the car is an important means of making the most people in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1598	With this government, we've now got 25 billion. kr less into the community through tax cuts that have really benefited the richest. At the same time, spending and oil money use have grown to new heights. So we've heard here today that the opposition doesn't agree. Yes, we are. The financial irresponsibility of this government has met unison counterclaims from the opposition. This must be the first government in history to experience that an overall opposition is proposing to spend less money. The irresponsibility is so great that the government statement now proposes to take the so-called unforeseen expenditure ‘under the line’. At the same time, we see that the government saves billions from the community into private pockets, while the welfare state is subjected to annual cuts through the government's savings reform. And you use the savings of future generations. My question is: Will the government find more creative ways to circumvent the rule of action? And does the Minister of Finance think that we can afford this government?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1605	It is possible that the representative Kaski believes that the government is pursuing irresponsible economic policies, but there are very few others in our society who are experiencing it. We experience a situation where we have turned down times to rise times. More people come to work. It is true that the government has reduced the tax and tax burden, both for individuals and businesses, but that leads to more companies. This leads to more people coming to work. The sum of that is that more become taxpayers rather than living on other taxpayers. I think that is good economic policy. And so it's going well in Norway. So that's irresponsible, I'm completely in disagreement. Of course, the government will follow up all the points in the platform in a good way. We're going to investigate a whole series of measures, and then we're going to get back to it in the state budget. But I can assure the representative, Kaski, that we will continue to pursue a responsible economic policy in which we secure the income of our businesses and ordinary people by continuing to reduce the tax burden.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1614	We can now get the highest power prices we've had in Norway since 2011. Many people are afraid to get the next power bill on the table. It is urgent to give a helping hand to those who labor the most, and who have the worst of advice. Among them we find the people who receive state housing. They don't live in sus and so forth, as the Progress Party and Right sponsors do. They have poor advice and can barely withstand a winter with high power bills. Nine years ago, the bourgeois opposition proposed by Red today. The Storting went in unanimously for the following year. It gave 120 000 households a loving contribution of NOK 2 500 to cover the exceptionally large electricity bills. My question is this: Does Siv Jensen support Rødt's proposal, which will help some of the poorest in the country to afford to keep the apartment warm during the winter?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1623	I can assure the representative of Moxnes that there are many things we can do on the part of both the government and the Stortinge, who are helping to secure the ability to pay the bills for households around this country, and that is what this government is doing. That is why we have implemented reductions in taxes and taxes of 25 billion in total. kr. It is wrong when the opposition claims that the richest have benefited. What's right is that a significant part of this has benefited people with low and medium incomes, and that's a development this government is going to continue. The sum of reduced taxes means that more of their own income is retained to serve current expenditure. It is also important, in the debate on electricity prices, that we make sure that we have a good supply system in Norway, that we ensure that we have enough power available at all times, and that we have the opportunity to import power in periods when we don't produce enough power ourselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1630	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1635	This government will be thinking for two things: for the first time that it is built on the will to negotiate away women's rights to retain power, and for the second time that it led a policy that gave the most to those who had the most, and took away those who had the least. To take the first one: Erna Solberg has always been willing to negotiate about women's affairs. She showed it when she wanted to introduce reservation rights for lizards against abortion. She also showed it because she did not reject the idea of mandatory time to think before abortion at once, but actually needed time to think about it. She showed it again when she put the abortion law paragraph 2, third paragraph, c on the table and said that she could negotiate this paragraph. And then we see it again now, that the abortion law – for the first time since it was introduced in the 1970s – is being streamlined. The second thing that this government will think about is that it chose to give big tax cuts to those who have the most, and so it does at a time when wage developments for those who have the least go in a negative direction – they have actually seen less now than they had ten years ago – while the richest have experienced a real wage growth of over 10 pst. in the last 10 years. The right-hand government sees how the differences increase, and then they select a policy that speeds up it. For while the wealthiest are tax cuts, the right-hand government introduces new taxes to ordinary people – on diet money, commuting allowances, termination payments – so that the many, ordinary wage earners get less in pay and more in tax. Norwegian seafarers are a good example. In their collective agreements, they have a small supplement to cover their expenses when they are ashore, and this rent supplement has tended to be tax-free. But then the right-hand government removed the exemption, and for the smooth sailor it meant 700 kroner less a month. This is not small money, this is everyday life. Being in a trade union has been more expensive, and having kids in a kindergarten has also been more expensive. In the last example, the difference is larger than the price increase, so in other words, this is a wild policy. The working party is clear: the differences have to be smaller, the possibilities have to get bigger, people have to feel that our country is fair, that it's not funny about who are your parents, who decide, or happy about whether your employer is good or not, who decides, but that you feel that you can shape your life as you like. Even if the right government wanted power, it doesn't look like they know what they want with that power. Most of the things in this statement, it was also in the previous one, and in the previous one – and in the previous one. The working party will focus more on community and less on privatisation. We will focus more on well-being and less on tax cuts to the richest, more on order of business and less on sending greetings to the unorganised world of work, as the government does. And we're never going to negotiate away basic women's rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1650	To take care of what we enjoy with our country, we must also ensure that what we have today can be preserved tomorrow. A lot is going well. Unemployment continues to fall, employment increases, and across the country we now see more creation. Of course, it might look nice in macro numbers, but behind the graphs and numbers it hides thousands of simple stories: the story of her who had a safe job, but who nevertheless chose to quit, take her savings and maybe borrow a little on top of it to start the business she's always dreamt of starting, but didn't venture before now. Or about the one who has the good idea, and who has finally found someone who is willing to bet on it. The idea can eventually become profitable jobs and a product or solution that makes everyday life easier for people around the world. Or about her who was licensed when the oil price fell, but who recently got the extended phone from her employer that they needed her back as soon as possible. These small – and large – decisions that shape our country are not taken in a vacuum. The decisions we make in this room affect the decisions taken out there. Norway is an amazing country. We have tamed the hydropower, which provided the basis for large industrial ventures such as Elkem and Hydro. We may have been happy when we discovered oil and gas on a Norwegian base, but picking up this oil and the gas and converting it to values that we then manage responsibly and in the long term, is not about luck. It's Norway at its best. We are at the forefront of health technology, the farming industry is technological and environmentally friendly, and we are at the forefront of sustainability. This happens in a country where the people have always known that you have to do it in order to reap, that hard work should always pay off, and that we have to create values before we can distribute them. This is also the pillar of government policy. We're not just going to harvest and consume now; we're going to do it for the future. Future generations will also live in a free, safe and sustainable welfare society. That is why the decisions we are making now are important for the country we are leaving to future generations. When the government invests in expanding the road and the track, it's about building our country together and equiping us for a new time and that it's still going to be possible to create jobs and values across the country. When we invest in a school that teaches the students basic skills early, and which ensures that more people complete and survive, it is essentially because those who are young today have the opportunity to reach as far as they want, and to create a safe country – and life – for themselves and theirs. When we make sure that we have a competitive tax level, it is essentially because some of the money we previously took into the state is now left in the individual enterprise or in the individual family, because it is also well-being. And when we have a government that doesn't want to govern families and individuals, but gives each and every one greater freedom to choose for themselves and theirs, it's about the fact that politics is for individuals and it's about making it easier for different people to live different lives. Policy is also about alternatives. Towards a united non-socialist majority government stands a divided opposition. Of course, we can have a lot of fun with that, but there is also some seriousness behind it, because in that opposition, there are parties that will reduce working time in Norway to six hours – and at the same time wind up the Norwegian oil and gas industry. This is the largest and most targeted attack on the welfare state ever proposed in this room. That's how you break the backbone of our welfare community. By doing a cut-off on the income side, we will soon notice that cut-offs are coming — in school, in health, in the care of the elderly — and we will also have to increase taxes so that fewer of those who previously dared to bet do so, and so that working is less profitable. This is simply a breach with the Norwegian model. There's something outrageous about such proposals, because in Norway we know that we have to create, that we live on each other's work, and that contributing is a value for people, not just for the bottom line of the state budget. A people who volunteer as far north as we've done is not afraid of challenges. We had not survived by stabbing chains in the wheels for each other or by looking at work as an evil. We've created the world's best welfare society. It has not come of itself, and there is no law of nature that it will be in the future. In the years leading up to 2021, we will have many important debates on the way forward for Norway, and one of the most important is how to keep Norway at its best and build on the Norwegian model. This government creates and distributes, while the opposition cracks and complains.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1671	The Progress Party has always had a culture as a high priority policy area, precisely because we want to create a simpler everyday life. The investment that has been since 2013 has been formidable. National transport plan, on which the parties Right, the Progress Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party negotiated in 2017, shows a clear shift in the pace of transport policy. The effort to expand the country’s infrastructure has in recent times never been greater than with the Progress Party in the Ministry of Transport. The Granavolden platform notes that the ambition of the national transport plan to over 1 000 billion. kr shall be used on carriage, situated in a fixed position. To bet on both the road and the track gives freedom of choice in those areas of the country where you have the opportunity to choose. This is important for the Progress Party. I'm glad that it's a majority of the parties that don't rock that it's important to bet on infrastructure. It is important to build the country together — where districts and cities can meet and connect better. It's important for the value creation in the districts, where values are created, and it's important to ensure the everyday journeys for each of us who travel along the road. For security is important, and the best we can do is build more modern, safe and non-conference roads. That's what gets the accident statistics down. We have a goal to achieve -- a zero vision -- and we stand together on that. After the negotiations in Granavolden, there is now a good platform, with a number of good progress party breakthroughs, which makes me proud, because it is a clear majority. Transport policy in the platform shall have a not insignificant part of the credit for it. The Infrastructure Fund, which was to be built up to 100 billion in the previous ageing period. kr, shall reach up to 200 billion. kr in the course of two and a half years. It makes me happy. In addition, we have New Veier, who was the Heart Child of the Advancement Party. And it kind of went a little bit off in some circles. It clearly shows that when the 530 km motorway portfolio could be built in 12 years, not 20 years, and save society for nearly 30 billion. kr, it is about respect for taxpayers' money. The fact that the opposition has opposed this company is one thing. But it should ring a bell when you can use the money smarter and build more reasonable, better, safer and faster. It deserves the people of the country. There are probably many important and less important things in a platform. But when it says that the speed limit has to be reviewed, and you have to look at the speed limit of 120 km/h, it's about building modern roads, where there's going to be the right speed on the right road. It is about providing socio-economic benefits, where road safety, of course, needs to be ensured. It may not be the biggest thing that you now remove a rule, so that you can buy a 20-year-old or older car free of charge when the one-time fee is removed. A lot of people make fun of it. However, Norway is one of the world’s highest rates of veteran car enthusiasts. It's culture for many. Car is used in over 80 pst. of day-to-day travel in Norway. That means that the car is important. The Progress Party is not in favour of bans and bans, but believes that we can make everyday life easier for people. In such a debate, there will always be a toll debate. The representative, Slagsvold Vedum, stood on the pulpit talking about 13 billion. DKK in tolls. It's not the government's fault alone. The state is about 10.5 billion. kr plus minus, same thing as under the red-green government. But when the transport budget has increased by 75 pst. Since 2013, this is because all increases come through state resources. I would like to remind the representative, Mr Slagsvold Vedum, of one thing: it is in the urban growth agreements, where the county councils are involved and decide and want to organise urban growth agreements locally, the greatest increase is coming. Had they been guided by the wishes of Battle Force Vedum, the cities would have gotten between 0 and 20 pst. in aid. Now they get 50 pst. The fact that we are now further reducing toll rates in new projects is important in the new platform. You give a deduction for high tolls. In addition, the subsidy scheme is reinforced by 500 million. NOK up to 1000 million. kr to reduce the toll ratio. Had it been up to the red-greens, I am afraid that there had been far higher expenditures – which you suddenly worry about. They have not made a single proposal to the Stortinge on how to reduce tolls, but they are constantly calling for the Progress Party. I have said it many times, and I say it again: I welcome them. Join and make everyday life easier for most people, and agree with this government, which actually has a vision for the country and will secure the country with new, modern infrastructure.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1699	The Government Declaration announces a passive enterprise policy that will contribute to the centralisation of value creation in Norway. The central party wants an active policy to secure Norwegian jobs in Norway. Many in Norway feel that their jobs are threatened by cheaper foreign workers. This applies to drivers, pilots, craftsmen, seafarers and many other industries. The Government Platform provides few or no answers to this challenge. Economically environmentally friendly flows have traditionally been a competitive advantage for companies in Norway. The government has responded by increasing the electricity charge, and the process of new export cables is under way. The centre batch today proposes to stop work on new export cables. The number of new enterprises with state ownership to sell in the next few years is also highly uncertain. The central party believes in an active state ownership as an important contribution to securing Norwegian control of key Norwegian companies. Telenor is all on the sals list. We don't know if it's the Kongsberg Group, Equinor, Flytoget or what other companies are going to put on the list. Oslo Stock Exchange marks the 200th anniversary. Now it's like foreign groups have a bodega about Oslo Børs. The government didn't raise a finger in the matter. The speech that the Prime Minister read to Stortinget yesterday was long and contained many points about large and small. But the number did not contain a word about the coast, about fish or aquaculture. The centre party fears that this is an expression of a lack of commitment to important industries along the coast. Government platforms also point to increased government taxation of natural resources. We know that the introduction of land-based interest rates for both fisheries and aquaculture is under way and is under way. Coastal businesses had been able to clarify this issue. The Christian People's Party has received the Minister of Agriculture. The Christian People's Party itself is very pleased with what they have achieved in the agricultural field. But there is no new offensive grip in the government platform to develop Norwegian food production. Everything on the agricultural government platform is previously decided by the Stortinget. The reality is that the Christian People's Party, by choosing side, has given itself the opportunity to further develop agricultural policy. In exchange for power, the Christian People's Party has also been involved in sacrificing fur nutrition. I used to visit a desperate young couple at Varhaug on Jären who had been betting on fur animals. Ten million. kr they had invested in producing fur with the world's best animal welfare. They were desperate and afraid of becoming debt slaves. And with the replacement arrangement that the Christian People's Party has agreed to, that's exactly what they're going to become. The young couple, Erik and Beate at Varhaug, have to pay the price for Olaug Bollestad to be the Minister of Agriculture. On the day that Bollestad has to give back his key card and the black government car, Erik and Beate will still have to deal with their debts, as a result of government policy. Representatives from the government party are up on the pulpit today and threaten that if the party like that comes into power with that and that, it will go badly on that and that industry. But the reality is that in Norway, historically, there is one ban on nutrition, and that is what this government is doing. There is also a debate on food and climate. Emissions are assessed equally whether they are from cows or coal. Agriculture negotiates with the government a climate agreement. In the state budget for 2019, a broad majority of Stortinget concluded that it is not appropriate to levy fees on biological processes. I expect the government to know that it is still firm. But then the question is, if this agreement is not good enough, what new fees is the government going to introduce for agriculture and fisheries? The centre party will continue the fight in Stortinget for Norwegian jobs, Norwegian food production and an active industrial policy for the best for people throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1723	I have heard in this debate that Hareide is missing, and I would like to remind you that at least 24 hours should go by before a broadcaster sends out a call. Norway is a very good country to live in for everyone, most of them. Measured from life expectancy, standard of living and level of education, Norway is the world's best country to live in. Most people have a safe economic presence. Oil wealth has given us the opportunity to build a welfare supply that is unique in the global context, and increased living standards have given people improved quality of life. The government platform provides a very good starting point for further development. It's especially important that we work to bring everyone into our society. I had delighted to have Pablo on a visit. He was part of the TV series Søsken on TV 2. Here we meet Pablo in a wheelchair playing with his sister, Elina. This is when the reporter asks the odyssey: ‘How is it to have a big brother sitting in a wheelchair?’ Before she gets black, Pablo takes the word and says, ‘If they wonder what it’s like to have a odyssey who can walk, I can say it can be quite fun and a little annoying.’ Pablo has said that I have used this quote several times. He has therefore sent me a new quote for this government statement debate. He says, "If you know what it's like to have a society that's not for everyone, it's not funny, and it's very annoying." That's why it's been an important thing for the Christian People's Party to get our equidistant reform in place, and it's in place safely in the government platform. It's about family coordinators, it's about making BPA an equality tool, it's about VTA places, it's about a whole thing. We want a society with space for everyone, who recognizes the value of lack, who respects all human beings' absolute equivalency, even though we are different both on the outside and inside. Another important thing for the Christian People's Party is the child reform. We're now going to increase the child's pension by NOK 7,200 for children between 0 and 6 years of age. We know that increasing child welfare is the most important measure to do something about our child poverty. We also get a free-time card for children between 6 and 17 years of age. The debate over the last few weeks has just pointed out that leisure activities are one of the places where we see our new class distinction. Therefore it has been important for the Christian People's Party to get a bet for children between 0 and 18. On the presentation of the Government Declaration, abortion has been a subject that has been highly debated. It's a theme that I thought has a respectful debate. And we should have a debate on difficult ethical issues. My experience here is that so to say everyone has exaggerated the debate. There is a difference between making changes in the case of foetal reduction and any changes in Section 2(c). The professional environment at St. Olav's hospital, which conducts the procedure, has itself been in place to change the rules because the procedure is not carried out until after the 12th week. I think this change will stand. Even though I respect the fact that the Left will stand up to its policy also towards the election in 2021, I believe that this change is going to stand, because we are now getting a practice that is in line with what they have in our neighbouring countries. The Norwegian welfare society has its origins in people who saw sickness, suffering and poverty and took responsibility for the community on their own. This happened through ideal and religious actors. That's why it's important, what's being determined about ideal actors, that a now should have increased use of non-profit activity. In the healthcare sector, the part of non-profit-making activities should be increased. One shall use the action space to ensure ideal actors, and one shall ensure long-term contracts. This is part of our legacy – an inheritance that we have to preserve.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1740	It's interesting to be social liberals and sit and listen to this debate today. The conclusion is enough that we all know that we live in a very good country, but that we see that we have major challenges ahead of us – both the climate challenges, the ongoing fight against inequality and the creation of new, green jobs. But we are also a country that manages to have politicians who are willing to cooperate, stretch and do difficult things because you want all the best for their people. We see this as a time when the budgetary crisis in the United States is leading to people losing their wages, where Brexit is locked in political wars in the British Parliament, and where a stable neighbouring country like Sweden spends many months making a government. In fact, I think it is good when four parts are approx. 14 days will be able to agree on a work plan until the next choice. It's a guarantee of stability, and it's a citizen that it's good for the country. We know that we need to further develop our welfare state in order for it to be sustainable. Then we must not be evading reforms and new changes. We know that we need well-functioning markets that are capable of developing new jobs that are in line with the climate challenges we are facing. When the UN Climate Report explained the consequences if we do not reach the 1.5 degree point, it was clear to us in the Left that after Jeloya we need to strengthen the climate action of the government platform. And we succeeded. Actually, we didn't expect the opposition here today to express enthusiasm over the platform, not even in the climate field, but what has been the criticism of the government's climate policy until now? Well, it is that climate targets need to be increased, that we need to have binding targets for national emissions, that we need to support a strengthening of the EU's climate targets, and that we need to make it more expensive to pollute. To put it that way – our climate target for the non-quota sector is now being increased to 45 pst, and we say that it should be taken in Norway. We support a strengthening of the EU's overall climate targets to 55 p.m., and we are launching a binding CO2 tax escalation plan. The conclusion is clear: Norway has never had a government platform that has been more committed to climate, that has been more ambitious for climate, or that has given us an equally good basis for succeeding in climate policy. And we must succeed. Of course, it is important for Norway that we implement global climate change, but it is also important because we have great opportunities to create new jobs. We're going to go the big steps that once were from sail to steam, and we're going to do that by making zero-emission ferries, betting on green shipping and creating jobs all along the coast. We ensure that public procurement becomes green, we invest in research and education, we carry out a systematic job to phase in the electric cars, get carbon capture and storage, invest in the circular economy, get more climate friendly food production – in short, we are doing the job today to make Norway greener, cleaner and more forward-looking, and the Granavolden platform is a good basis for strengthening this work in the future. But we also need to ensure that our welfare state becomes socially sustainable, with little differences, and we need to reduce poverty. That's why we're betting at a school where all kids are going to have the chance to succeed. That is why over 40,000 young people are now offered free kindergarten, so that they will have the opportunity to succeed in school. We make sure that each young person has the opportunity to find his or her potential for success in society. In the past, the teaching profession was a profession that had to be applied for and many fled. Now we have restored respect for the teaching profession. We restore respect for knowledge and education in society. We know it benefits our kids, and it benefits our society. The left is well pleased with the Granavolden platform. In general, it is also a social liberal platform, a platform that responds to how we should contribute to solving the major challenges we face. I look forward to cooperation with the Storting and good debates in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1763	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1768	The new Minister for Gender Equality did not talk about equality in his contribution. I can understand that, because the extended right-hand government continues to put equality in reverse. What this new government has to offer is a weakening of women's rights to control their own bodies through restrictions on abortion law and a refusal to increase women's knowledge of stomach life through no to early ultrasound and the NIPT test. This is new, and it is this Right Party, the Progress Party and the Left have done to continue to secure power – they have restricted Norwegian women's freedom in their own lives, and with that, equality has been put further in reverse. What does the Council of State think that it is on this basis, weakening equality, that she has been given the opportunity to become a precisely equality minister?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1775	I have to point out the errors that came to the question, where you, for example. states that we say no to early ultrasound. What we do is we don't oblige people to take early ultrasound, but those who want it and choose it are free to choose it with this platform. The work I'm going to do further is all the positive we've been able to get to the last few years. We see that part-time goes down, involuntary part-time goes down. We see that there are several mothers with children working. We see that there are several female leaders. We have an increase in female leadership also in the public sector. We have several heads of government in the state sector who are women. We see that 91 pst. of all children now going to kindergarten. If there's something we really know, it's that if there's something that frees women, it's the ability to control their own economy, get into work, get the chance to earn their own money. This has been an important freedom fight for 100 years in this room, but it is still equally topical for very many women in Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1782	We have an enormous number of and enormously large equality challenges to work with – there is no doubt about it. This is precisely why it is so strange that this government's efforts have been to cut back on the measures that have made Norway actually become such an equal country. Involuntary part-time measures have been cut, child care prices have been increased, women are paid for not to work. That the Minister for Gender Equality is concerned with these challenges, I take for granted, but it's only strange that she's sitting on a platform that's not willing to do anything about it. Back to my question, which the Council of State did not answer, and which I will put in another way: what would the Council of State say if she heard that in another country there had been an equality minister who had been on a platform that weakened women's rights, that restricted abortion rights, and that made it so that not everyone has the opportunity to get knowledge of life in the stomach, because everyone really does not have the opportunity to get early ultrasound?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1789	The use of cash support goes down. I guess that's what was shown here in the questioning, when you said you pay people to be at home. The use of kindergarten is booming. Part time goes down. All the indicators referred to by the representative Trettebergstuen are now in the right direction, but it has to be Pushes, it has to be further worked, and policies need to be developed that are a driving force in that particular area. We've got a third of the parental leave. It's going to be a very important grip also in the future. On the abortion side, we are now beginning to resemble other countries – I fully agree with that – but there are no other countries that have had the opening in the Norwegian legislation. We've said that we should make sure that we have enough knowledge about this and enough knowledge to develop this in the future as well. The left was not for that change, but we have moved a decision over to a denominator. The big change would have been to do something with Section 2(c) – it wasn't left willing to be on.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1796	The government and the prime minister of the New Year have been very clear that it is a goal that more children should be born in our country in the future. Nevertheless, the government is taking action which means that many people now lose hope and the opportunity they had to have the children they want, precisely because the new government says no to egg donation – which was a huge majority for – and says no to assisted fertilization for solitude. Does the Council of State think that there is a proper line that the government wants to help heterophobic couples where the man has problems with having children, but not heterophilic couples where the woman is the one who has problems, or sloppy families, or lonely who wants to have children?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1803	Here it is probably quite similar to when the Workers' Party was in government. Here, agreements have been reached between parties with different positions, and the points of tilt have been reached. So here's probably me and the representative Trettebergstuen in the same boat. It is likely that the same conclusions are at the root of the policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1808	The centre part is based on the fact that growth is not consumption anymore but better management. All culture is cultivation, primarily of soil. This must be at the heart of a good, forward-looking climate policy: lower consumption materially and focus on primary industries, which produce green carbon. The climate policy of the future is based on the need to meet energy needs by taking energy directly from the sun through sea wind and solar cells and through geothermal and hydropower. Carbon as a material must come much more from renewable carbon, i.e. cod, thymote and spruce – this to replace fossil carbon: oil, gas and coal. The question is: does the President and the Council of the Left, Skei Grande, agree that this requires new and better framework conditions that provide better profitability in the production and processing of e.g. timber, and will the bourgeois government implement this?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1817	I fully agree that the carbon that grows from our soil must be used for the conversion of Norway. That's why we have such a massive and huge investment in biofuels. It offers many opportunities for Norway. It also provides opportunities for Norwegian forestry. There are many opportunities to create jobs, and there are many opportunities to cut emissions. That's why we're doing what the red-greens should have done, but like the torpedo, that's to develop the industry. Now we see that Norwegian industry is investing in this field. But I also think it is important to stress that we have to make sure that in a climate-friendly society we price emissions in such a way that we get to the transitions we need. I believe in economic growth, but economic growth must be within the limits of nature. Then nature's resources have to be priced correctly. This is the basis for this declaration of government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1825	I am pleased that the Council of State, on behalf of the civil government, said that one should have better profitability in the production and processing of timber. It's epoch-making. When the Council of State goes on to say that the government is paying massively for biofuels, that's not true. The only factory that produces biofuels in Norway is Borregaard, and they have produced it in about the same quantity all the time. The government says in its platform: ‘In favour of an industrial policy which also benefits the Norwegian woodworking industry.’ So it's nutrition neutrality right over here. In the state council's own home state, Nord-Trøndelag, we have Norwegian Forest, a factory that has in recent years had a higher energy price than that one has in Golbey, France. What is the government going to do concretely to improve the profitability of the transition that Forest, for example, is facing, a newspaper mill with a falling market of between 5 and 7 pst. per year?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1839	I'm not going to go too far into the responsibilities of the other state councils when I stand here – and I notice that Lundtigen believes that my home party is Trundellag, while Marit Arnstad believes that...
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1844	... before...
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1849	...I'm not a trouser. So somewhere in between, I might think that I exist, then. What is important for the Left is that a clear development of the production of environmentally friendly solutions must also be clear about creating markets for it. When, for example, has changed the whole charging system related to cars, creates a market for emission-free cars. Then creates a market for the electricity cars that are now being produced and that are being developed in both cheaper and better versions. The idea is to create a market around climate-friendly solutions. That is why I have shown that, for example. green public procurement can be an important driver for the conversion of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1856	I think I was quite specific that I named the Council of State with her former home country, the Nord-Trøndelag, so I'm aware that she has moved. What is the real challenge is that the Norwegian three-processing industry is in crisis. Increasingly large parts of Norwegian timber are exported as raw material to the rest of the world instead of having the large processing gain in Norway. The market is there, but in order to participate in that market, a switch must take place. It requires large investment costs. The government says that one should continue to be neutral in nutrition, but one should not have any additional stakes in the wood processing industry. This is my question: What will the government do to contribute to the conversion of, for example, the large forest factory, which spends over 1 million. 3 timber?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1868	I don't think anyone will find the word ‘nutritional neutrality’ used in the platform, but it's obvious that if a country wants to go into and invest heavily in some industrial projects, it probably belongs to a slightly different time. But I suggest that this is a question that the Minister of Industry will have to follow up on in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1873	I would like to begin by congratulating the Council of State on its new, extended title and new important responsibility. It may have got off to a bit of an unfortunate start, as the reason, at least according to the internal sources reproduced in the media, has been that another government council should avoid both gay and equality debates. But State Council Skei Grande herself has stated that she and Left sincerely wanted to take over equality policy, and that that was the reason. Then we have to take the Councils of State to the floor – at least here in the Chamber. Then I would like to ask about moving gender equality policy from family policy to culture, as the Left has wanted to do: does the Council of State have good professional reasons to do just that?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1878	I'm going to start by referring to an open source, which is me seagoing. I cannot say what agenda the closed sources have when they refer, but the open source here can confirm that the Left wanted to work on equality. The reason for this is that the real representative finds the Supreme Court if he now sits down and reads the cultural message. For the idea of the message of culture is that culture is an arena of democracy, of empowerment of people, of creating important communities that are in and form the democracy in which we are actually in. For me, gender equality policy – whether it concerns the rights of skews, gender equality or people with disabilities – is about participation in democracy. It's about the right of individuals to be active citizens in the same way as everyone else. That is why it is a project of democracy. For the Left, equality has always been a democracy project, no matter what angle you have on you. That's the same problem that we see in culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1883	I don't know if that's exactly equal opportunities reasons the Council of State answered with there, but that's okay now. Another reason why this government and the new Minister for Gender Equality did not have such a successful start is that the State Council of Skei Grande must be the first Minister for Gender Equality of 40 years who has to defend a restriction on women’s right to self-determined abortion – despite the fact that, before the negotiations, the National Council of the Left adopted a requirement to ‘ensure women’s right to self-determined abortion, and not agree to any changes in today’s abortion law that would restrict women’s rights’. So then we can record that the State Council Skei Grande believes that the restriction that was still the result is just a two-year break, that this should be reversed at the next election. Then I'd like to ask the council if it's an ultimatum. Is it that the Left cannot enter new governments that maintain this restriction?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1892	It may be thought that the issue was not professional, but it was quite political, and this is part of the Left's political project into this government, namely to take a greater focus on individuals, to focus more on rights and to show how we can use the important Community arenas to develop democracy and be at the forefront. Then it's like when there's a big choice, you don't go to choice on platforms. You go to the elections on the big shot program. I also think SV is going to do that on the next crossroads. In Norway, we do not actually have a tradition of consensus between government candidates until we go to elections, or go to elections on those kinds of platforms; we go to elections on our major elections program. Now the left is exactly the same position as the SV was when they were in government, and then I assume that there is also an understanding that you can go to the election program that a country meeting determines. So it's the Land Meeting of the Left that decides.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1899	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1905	The new government platform contains many points and good objectives for the justice sector. Yesterday’s statement contained little disappointment about the challenges we face in the justice sector — security, legal certainty and social security. This, I think, reflects some of the things that often lead to justice policy coming pretty far behind in the right-hand government's priority. For a trust society with a strong community, being safe is central: that people experience real security in everyday life, that they get help when they need it, and good legal certainty. If there is to be a reality, the right-wing government will soon have to show that they will give priority to it when ambitions are set and paid for. In the last year the media has been fluttering over headlines and cases about victims of serious crime who get their life on hold for several years, and about the victims and relatives who stand in what I think are unworthy cows, because the capacity of the police and the courts is blown up. Many people brought a case on TV 2 a few weeks ago about a seven-year-old girl who had been exposed to a election. Two years after that event, things are still going on. That's one of many things. Mother to the girl said that she experienced this as a new form of assault and was losing all trust in the judicial system. It is serious, and it threatens the basic trust of both the police and the judiciary. Counsellors are making an alarm. Police officials verify a critical resource situation in the districts. We see that there is a penalty discount given to heavy criminals, because it takes too long to come to a courtroom. Our courts, at the head of the court administration, say that legal certainty is a threat, and that the independence of the courts is indeed a threat. Everything is related to everything, and the priorities of a government are important. At the same time as the operation of the justice sector causes people who are exposed to crime to experience being in these unworthy queues, the right-wing government continues with its kind of welfare policy for those who have the most in this country. So the 1 000 richest people in the country have received 1.3 million. kr each in the treasure trove of this right-hand rule. That's money we think should have been used in a completely different way. Instead, the Workers' Party will use the money for the community, for example: by strengthening the legal certainty of people and measures to reduce differences in the country. The situation description of the justice sector is not visible from the opposition on Stortinget. Recently, we were able to read a disparaging report by professors at the Police Hill and the BI who had conducted field investigations, observations, conversations and polls of 4,500 police officers to find out the consequences of the near-police reform until now. Ready could refer to a report recently on the consequences of the ABE reform for courts and justice systems. That too was discouraging reading. Nevertheless, the right-hand direction seems to be brilliantly pleased with how great they are. The Labour Party does not want the unworthy queues to grow. We don't want decapitation in the police districts. Instead, we want to strengthen the capacity, add more, and we have shown our willingness to do so when the crowns were to be distributed. The Labour Party has proposed a significant strengthening of the budgets of the police districts, of the courts and criminal services, and I think we are seeing the context of the criminal proceedings. If we are to take the ambitions of the platform seriously, it will require completely different budgets from what we have seen now. Then we should remember that although this government is now new and expanded, there is nothing new that these four parties are cooperating on budget. If you don't see a change in the priorities in the field of justice, I think that the Right Party and the Advance Party, especially in their judicial policy, have failed to play down, and that the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have failed to moderate that result. That doesn't work with beautiful words and promises. We actually need now that this plural government is delivering, and I have great expectations for the first proper budget of this plural government to deliver to the Stortinget. It's said to see if the ambitions of the Granavolden platform are set in motion then.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1924	Sustainable welfare – what do we really mean by that? Is it just a nice headline that it's very easy to agree with? Yes, to that extent it is, but it is when we fill the words with content and connect them, that the disagreements appear. A fast-paced journey into Great Norwegian encyclopaedia: «Sustainable development is a development that meets today's needs without destroying the opportunities of future generations to meet their needs.» It's quite demanding if we think about it, because we've become very well used to it. We sometimes go between needs and what we've become used to. That is not all we expect today, which necessarily falls into the «needs» category. This is going to be an increasing challenge, because expectations continue to be cloud-high and are more and more confused with just needs. Sustainability: we're talking about social sustainability. We must strive against no one falling outside. Norway is a country with high confidence and small differences. This is part of the social sustainability that we'll be dependent on in the future as well. We're also talking about green sustainability. A sustainable society is not only inclusive, it's also green, smart and innovative. The green leader in the Tour de France is used by the leader of the point competition. In climate policy, Norway has taken on the green leadership jersey and is leading the Tour de Klima. We take both global and local responsibility. Emissions have fallen in recent years. They need to go down further, and we need to ensure green sustainability. Last but certainly not least: we are talking about economic sustainability. You might need to be careful to measure the importance of the three different sustainability areas, but at least it is certain that without economic sustainability there is no welfare society. Sustainable well-being must be seen as just the two separate words it is: well-being, that is, public benefits, services and appropriations, and the sustainability that comes from the private creative power, and the values created by the countless small and large job creators. Jobs need competitive tax levels and competitive framework conditions, and framework conditions are much more than tax levels. The instrument and legislation must be simplified. It must encourage innovation, and it must encourage innovation. Infrastructure, road, track, broadband, yes all communication lines must continue to be upgraded and further developed. In Norway, there is an increasingly pressing need to explain the relationship between sustainability and welfare. The alarming findings show that the understanding of the relationship between value creation and well-being is getting worse, especially in the generations that have lived with a unique welfare offer throughout their lives, that is, the younger generations. So I'd like to say a few words about Norway's main industry. Without comparison, it is the oil and gas industry. This one wants the red-greens alive, while they want to raise their taxes. They're going to get rid of the value creation and yours and my wallet at the same time. It's really not to believe. If the Workers' Party's preferred support players, Red, the Green Party and the Socialist Left, were to make a government statement, the only platform operating in Norway in a few years would be a red-green government platform pumping up expenditure. I would also say a little about various attacks on the Christian People's Party. They have been subjected to much review because they have received too much throughput, and then they have been reviewed so that they have received too little throughput. This very much reminds me of ‘too early’ and ‘too late’, which the Workers’ Party tried to seal when the oil price went down, and they really didn’t know what they meant or wanted to do. So it's all about the old stuff. It's going well all over Norway. Those who still spend time black-painting and trying to create twisted images of how it stands, bombs. In particular, this Central Party, which has also today made it its main concern to produce a Norway in a little near ruins. I think the Center Party is being screened by the vast majority of people. I'm going to end with a quote that's often attributed to Abraham Lincoln, although there's some uncertainty about the origin, but it describes the swords of our honoured competitors very well: you can trick the whole people a little bit of time, you can trick some of the people all the time, but you can't trick the whole people all the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e1953	The main objective of the government is to secure Norway for the future and to create a sustainable welfare society. But what does security really mean? Security is that one can kiss the weesel's tenant say goodbye on the way to school and expect her to come home in the afternoon. Security means that one can rent the one one is happy in, on the street, without being afraid to be shut down. Security is knowing that help is on the way if health fails. But: Security doesn't come of itself. It requires a credible defense of our country, and it requires a strong and effective police force. Therefore, the government intends to move Norway further towards NATO’s 2 percentage points. That is why we need to reform the police. We're going to equip them to meet new forms of crime and bet on even more policemen. Therefore, we should continue to create the patient’s healthcare, which is sustainable in meeting the challenges of the future. Security is also knowing that the child in your stomach will have all the opportunities for a rich and good life, even if it gets a little different from everyone else. That is why the government has to implement an equivalised reform. The reform will contribute to a society where everyone needs it and make it easier for families with children with special needs. Families who are informed that they will have an additional child will be entitled to a co-ordinator already during pregnancy. It creates security in a time when a lot has become uncertain. Many parents with children who need a lot of help just feel that the job of coordinating the help sometimes is larger than the relief they receive. Security is to get hope back, when all hope is gone. Before Christmas, I met Kathrine Mydland-Aas, who had been struggling with coercive illness for ten years. Kathrine was so suspended in having it clean that all his life was totally dominated by coercive thoughts about bacteria. Then she tried a Norwegian-developed treatment that went over four intensive days. The results were amazing. Earlier, Kathrine’s granddaughter had to be lifted with tight arms from the doormat and right in the bathtub when she came from the kindergarten. Now, after grandma has been treated, she is accepted with open arms – without going about the bathtub. The treatment Kathrine received is now part of one of the mental health packages. The government's ambition is to create the patient's healthcare. We want more people to be able to experience what Kathrine experienced – to avoid unnecessary waiting time, to be heard, seen and understood, to be treated as an entire human being and not as a diagnosis. That is why we need to reduce the waiting time further. Therefore, we need to extend free treatment options. We're going to investigate a free user choice scheme in municipalities, and we're going to increase digitisation and new ways of working to free up even more time for health care and care. The provision of the most vulnerable, in particular in the field of drugs and mental health and the elderly, should be strengthened. We need to develop and introduce multi-suffering package pathways, such as pain management, fatigue, musculoskeletal disorders and, in particular, our own ‘home cancer patients’ package pathways. Package trajectories create security and predictability when health fails and the future is perceived as uncertain. Security is a prerequisite for freedom – everything from freedom to love it will, to choosing who will help you master your life, regardless of the size of your wallet. Therefore, the government's prime task is to secure Norway so that people can live a free and independent life.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2001	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2006	Congratulations to the Council of State on a new government platform. It's getting more. In the Granavolden platform, the parties who are behind have decided that the Finnish Hospital will be admitted to the University Hospital in North Norway. This has surprised both trustees and employees at the Finnmark Hospital and at UNN in Tromsø, who are now somewhat despaired of having a merger stepped down over their heads. In Altaposten on 18 January, this point is mentioned in the government platform, and there is a representative from Finnmark Left who says himself, Trine Noodt, and says that it must mean the expansion of the food department and emergency services, in practice a hospital in Alta. Stortingsretten Bengt Rune Strifeldt from the Progress Party says that the new structure in which Klinik Alta becomes part of the UNN system makes the goal of a full-fledged maternity ward realistic. Why this maneuver, councillor? And does this mean the people in Alta hope for: a fully-fledged emergency hospital?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2013	I think this is an important and necessary grip. It is difficult to operate two major emergency hospitals in a state such as Finnmark and to have quite decentralised and even more decentralised healthcare in the future, through Clinic Alta and the Sami health park. This will therefore be an advantage in strengthening what is actually going to be the most modern healthcare in Norway, through large investments: we have opened a new hospital in Kirkenes, we are building a new hospital in Hammerfest, we are building a new clinic in Alta and a new Sami health park. It is difficult to cope with this in the future without a strong connection to the University Hospital in North Norway. So this makes the government both to make the healthcare in Finnmark sustainable for the future and to strengthen the role of the University Hospital in North Norway as a university hospital and regional hospital. Of course, employees and trustees must be well involved in this process before the final decisions are taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2018	My question was more focused on the expectations that have been created locally, on several emergency functions in Finnmark. I think that's very important being blacked up by the government. The last population in Alta needs now, there's more glossy images that break in the next moment, so here the government should be clear. That things have to be investigated makes sense. I have another question for the Council of State, and it's about those parts of the platform that block future changes to the Law on Biotechnology. There's a Christian People's Party that's got a veto right. The sectionary Torbjørn Moe Eggebø at St. Olav's hospital told on the weekend of TV 2 that they have found a link between foetal reduction of multiples and assisted fertilisation abroad. Does the Council of State see the concern that this offer is being held back in Norwegian soil, while at the same time tightening their ability to absorb the pregnancies they have received, with a lower quality and practice of placing more eggs abroad?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2025	Yes, it's interesting with the figures from Eggebø, because they show that there is a connection between assisted fertilization and those who choose to take foetal reduction, also of healthy twins. I think it's an important piece of information to bring with it in that debate. But what is wrong is the TV 2's presentation of the case, that this is mainly about persons who have been assisted in fertilization abroad. That's not right. All, most of those who have had foetal reduction on an independent basis, have received assisted fertilisation in Norway. This also shows that the Norwegian environment providing assisted fertilisation has challenges related to both overstimulation of hormones and the use of multiple eggs. So this is a wrong analysis from the Working Party. Going into the figures, one sees that mainly these have assisted fertilisation in Norway, and that challenge must be given to the Norwegian environment that provides assisted fertilisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2030	There shall be a very important board meeting in Health South-East tomorrow. I'm not going to ask the Council of State questions directly about that. But we are facing very large construction projects within the specialist health service – Drammen, Inland, where I sail from, and the Oslo process. It's about a lot of money. How will the Council of State contribute to the implementation of these large and necessary investments at the rate necessary?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2037	It is quite right for the representative to say that we are faced with important and major decisions relating to what should be the special health service provision of the future for both the people of Oslo and the people of the Inland. It also follows up the large investments that have taken place under this government, in order to create the hospital of the future in Norway – which is not just about construction but is not least about new technologies and new sustainable ways of doing so. The way we're going to do it is to continue to strengthen the hospitals' economy, give them good framework conditions for those investments and predictability. There is also some of the things in the new platform, that we should also review some of the elements that help hospitals to continue to invest significantly in both construction and equipment in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2045	The multi-party policy platform states that ‘National Health and Hospital Plan shall include a review of the pre-hospital services and a comprehensive description of the hospital investment plan’, plus that there is a point to ‘ensure local management in hospitals’. This sounds very good, but my question is whether there is anything new in this. Does a review of the prehospital services mean that no grotesque message will be provided, as the Storting has decided in the fall? Does a description of the hospital investment plan mean something new in relation to the previous national health and hospital plan, or is it going to be the same? Does the point of city rental mean something new in relation to today, or will it be up to health care professionals – as today – to decide how to organise the rental?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2052	National health and hospital plans will be provided as a key message and there will be a special place for prehospital services and the review of that area. Of course, I come back to the Stortinget with receipt of the Roman number decisions that the Stortinget has made, but from the government's side, prehospital services will have a central place in the new national health and health plan. It is also important because we have already chosen interaction as a main theme of the new plan, and it is not least important for the prehospital services that there is a link between the offer for which the municipality is responsible and the offer made by hospitals. It is the overall coherence of services and scope that is the most important element in the security of the population. But I'm glad to see that the number of ambulances goes up and the response time goes down, not least in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2057	In any case, it is uncertain whether one will come to Stortinget with a big message about prehospital services, and it actually seemed to me that the council could answer yes or no, because it is certainly discussed – I would assume. So I would also ask for an answer to this with an investment plan as a point, which I asked for. What does that really mean? Will there be a description as in the previous national health and hospital plan, where the Stortinget is not really in and has any influence? And when it comes to urban renting, is it just like today? If there is something new in these points up against the current policy, which has been laid down since the previous national health and hospital plan, I would like to see it done. If that's like today, I'd like the Council to say it, because there's actually a part out in Health-Noreg that's wondering what this actually means.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2062	There will also be a review in the next national health and health plan of the investment plans in the health regions ahead, as was also in the previous one. It is also very clear in the government platform that the government has not intended to change today's governance model. This means that each health region takes a stand on investment, and investment at a certain level will receive loans from the Storting through the State budget. However, the concrete investment decisions are also taken in the future in health regions, on the basis of which the current governance model is based. It's also on the platform.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2067	The platform also states that one should provide a hospital plan that should focus on, for example: mental health, it's alerted before. At the same time, there is considerable concern in several enterprises that there are plans for a reduction of supply within mental health, particularly the reduction of daily capacity, daily treatment, both in children’s and young people’s psychiatric services, and otherwise in DPS and elsewhere. My question is: doesn't the Council of State think it's unthinkable that this is happening now, that is, the reduction of bed capacity at DPS in the BUP? A national health and hospital plan with the main emphasis on mental health is scheduled for six months.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2072	For me and the government, it has been important to establish a national health and hospital plan as a tool for strengthening political governance with specialist health services. I know that's a point of view that the representative shares. But it can't be that because you get a national health and hospital plan every four years, it can't happen until there's a change in health care. Then this as a tool will have an entirely opposite effect. The change in mental health from having large daily institutions to providing more decentralised help – working with municipalities on interdisciplinary teams – is a development that has been taking place for several years, and there is reason to believe that this development will continue. Norway continues to be more than comparable countries for the use of daily mental health spots. There are still too many people who spend a long time in their mental health, who should have been better offered where they live.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2077	Ullevål Hospital is not mentioned in the platform, but the future of the hospital is important for many both in Oslo and throughout the country, since the hospital is Norway's largest and most important emergency hospital with important emergency facilities. In the past, the Council of State here in Stortinget has defended the closure of Ullevål. He said last April that he is the last to decide. Since then, there have been more concerns about costs and major protests from all the professional communities, including from important environments outside the hospital. Now the government in Health South-East opens for what they call lighting Ullevål as an alternative location to Gaustad. Since the Council of State has previously stated that it is he who decides, I want to know if the Council of State has any idea whether it is wise to have Ullevål illuminated as an alternative to building new hospitals in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2082	It is as the representative, Mr Hagebakken, said, that tomorrow's board meeting in Health South-East, so the proposal to which the representative refers is the Executive Director's proposal for the suspension of the Management Board. Therefore, I would be somewhat reluctant to comment on it, because I believe that the board must take that discussion about the setting itself. If I give my reviews of the individual points in the setting, it can quickly be felt as leading towards the board. But it's quite right, as the representative says, I'm the one who decides at the end, and I've said in general that I don't have any counterconceptions about getting more knowledge. Knowledge is always good. But there's a lead for the development of the hospital structure in Oslo that means that we're going to build a big new emergency hospital on Aker. A prerequisite for this is also to build a new common hospital between Ullevål and what is today called the Rikshospitale. That's a prerequisite. If it stops working, there will be no new hospital at Aker.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2087	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2092	For the Progress Party, immigration and integration policies were one of the most important issues in the negotiations. The Progress Party has been steering this area with a steady hand for many years, and the result now is that there will be record numbers of asylum seekers. Many people try to draw a picture that it is because the borders of Europe are closed. Yes, we look at our neighbouring country, which is about as far north as Sweden, and more than 20 000 asylum seekers got there in 2008. Migration is one of the great challenges of our time, and it is very unpredictable. If you get control somewhere, the current moves to another one. That is why the Progress Party is pleased that we are getting an emergency shelter in place by looking at secondary protection, which means that those who do not have the right to refugee status will not get it either. A number of cases have been identified, not least through the Evening Post, where people who have been given a stay in Norway travel back on vacation. This is part of undermining the entire asylum system. A lot of people are right to respond. That is why we are very pleased that a change will now be made, which means that if you go back on vacation after you have been given a stay, and the permit cannot be withdrawn and you can be sent out, it will have a consequence in terms of quarantine, where it takes longer to get a permanent stay, and where you will not get a family reunion during this period. We're going to tighten up the citizenship requirements, and we're going to set a ceiling for the number of quota refugees. If there is a significant increase in the number of asylum seekers, the ceiling shall be reduced. The pace of immigration is very important, because it's about the ability to integrate those who are coming. A sustainable welfare society requires control of the influx to Norway. Small differences in Norway are also linked to the need to control immigration and to the need for it to be low. I had an interesting exchange of lines earlier here in the Chamber with the representative Lysbakken, who rejected the fact that increasing poverty was largely due to high levels of immigration. I am very pleased that SV has now turned around and acknowledged it – the representative Kaski made it clear through a debate at the NRK. Yes, even in fact.no states that immigration is clearly the main cause of growth in families with persistent low incomes. This is why the government’s commitment to Norwegian education, introduction programmes and strengthening the content of this offer are very important for the success of more people in the Norwegian community. Over time, it is difficult to see that social assistance payments to immigrants are increasing – that we see very few people coming to work, because it is about becoming difficult to become part of a community and become integrated if you are on the outside of work. Only 12.6 pst. Of the quota refugees that came in the period 2008–2016, we are in full-time jobs, among women we are talking about 8.2 pst. That is why we are very pleased that this platform ensures that policies continue and tighten up in some important areas that we see need. We live in a troubled world. In many countries around us, we see unrest in the political system, we see brexit, and we see over the Atlantic that it's troubled. In this context, Norway is really in trouble because we now have a platform that assumes that we will have a majority government to govern Norway supported and safe in the next few years. This platform ensures the impact of the Progress Party. We're very pleased with that. We have received important concessions on immigration, but we are also very pleased that the platform for the drivers is the best that has ever been provided, according to car enthusiasts. It means something to the whole country that we have good roads, that we have the opportunity to drive a car, and that we bind this country together so that more people can take advantage of it. This platform will enable us to secure Norway for the future. That's what politicians do at any time: make sure to deliver a country to the next generation that provides good conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2113	When you listen to this debate on the government statement, you notice that the four parties and their representatives enjoy a variety of things. So there's a lot of tension in what's good about that statement. After all, we are delighted in the Workers' Party, which has a slogan called 'All shall join'. It also seems that all possible positions should be included in the same statement. But at the beginning of this debate, at the very beginning of the change of lines between the representatives of Støre and Helleland, Greece chose to answer a question about the declaration by asking some questions about the internal cohesion of the Workers' Party, so I understand that there was concern about possible problems with us. Then I'd like to make it clear that it's not. We have had a debate this past week on what the Workers' Party believes about oil and climate, which is based on two premises. One is that some allegedly should have proposed concrete changes in tax policy, and the other is that some have put a lid on the debate. Both parts are wrong. There are no proposals for changes in exploration fusion or any other part of the oil tax agenda, nor is there any attempt to pave the way for an important debate. We are concerned with predictability and long-termity, and that we are able to plan for the long term for all industries. What worries me is not a lack of coherence with us, but if it was to be a problem to discuss the climate and oil in the same sentence, because it is simply no longer possible. We have to assume that the changes that are coming are coming quickly, and they are going to meet us. The climate changes that such ones hit us. It undermines nutrition, it is becoming more expensive — the more climate change is taking place, the more expensive it is to deal with them — but it will also lead to changes in other countries. That is why we need an open and honest discussion about climate risk. The Climate Risk Committee's excellent report contains a number of good leads that I look forward to discussing later this year with the Minister of Finance and others, when the government comes back with it. One of the things they say, or recommend – well to note with bureaucratic consent – is not to gamble on the failure of the Paris Agreement. We have to plan for scenarios where we manage to manage the climate at the same time, and that will change the assumptions for many industries, including the oil industry in the long term. We must have such a debate. With regard to the more concrete aspects of the declaration, or rather the lack of it, I would like to recognise many aspects with important sentences on climate, important things we agree on – many of them have already been adopted, some are new, that is good – but I have the concern that there are a lot of ambitions and little concrete goals. I think we would stand by having clearer, more verifiable targets. I believe we had insisted on creating a specific carbon budget in Norway as well. I am concerned that there are still friendly, but rather non-binding formulations on carbon capture and storage, as regards both whether you want to bet full scale and when a decision is taken, and there are many concerns in the industry, not least in the oil industry. Not only is carbon capture and storage important for the climate as such – and that’s the main reason why you’re doing it – but it’s also in many ways a survival strategy for important parts of our main industry, because carbon capture and storage succeed, you’ll have a much longer future, for example. for gas-to-hydrogen conversion in a few decades than without it. So I think you have to get even clearer. Much has been done about the alleged increase in national climate targets. To the extent that they are, I would applaud it, because it's good, but it's going from 40 to 45 pst. Cut-off requirements in the non-quota sector were almost a matter of course now, because we know that the EU is at least landing there, if no longer, so that adaptation was coming. So there's talk, not least from the representatives of the Left, as if all of these cuts were to be taken nationally. I wish. It seems like a couple of those sentences are written by the Left Party and perhaps the Christian People's Party, and the subsequent sentence is written by the Right Party and the Advance Party, because it says that it should not be done if you don't have to. So, if it becomes imperative, you have to let it go. I think we'll stand by now to build up a policy for the future where we can combine a great and serious climate responsibility with a work for future value creation and future work, and that we realize that we need to add up to a fair transition where everyone affected by this is involved and taken on board in a transformation that in any case comes, and that it's more expensive to wait with than to start right away.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2133	Climate change makes us unsafe. They are one of the greatest challenges of our time. Being offensive in the face of the climate crisis both nationally and globally will make Norway safer in the future. It will make Norway a safer place to grow up. It'll be a safer place for our kids. If we do it right, it also means that more people have work to do. An offensive climate policy is necessary both to curb climate change – because we cannot stop them – and to create green sustainability and a Norway where it is safe to live and live. That means we have to have more thoughts in our head at the same time. When multitasking is on the agenda, I have to admit that I am a little extra happy that we have four female party leaders. We have to think of solutions both nationally and internationally and solutions that are sustainable both for the climate and for the economy. First of all, we have to increase the level of ambition, and I have a little wish list in that context. I want tougher climate targets. I wish for a higher level of ambition for Norwegian emissions cut. I want us to escalate the CO 2 tax. I want us to make sure that the charging policy rewards green choices. I want to invest internationally in renewable energy, energy efficiency improvement and the phasing-out of coal in the south. I want our biofuels not to lead to deforestation, and that we have instruments and charges that exclude biofuels with a high deforestation risk, both inside and outside the turnover requirement, because it does not help with emissions cuts in Norway if we do damage in other countries. I want greener shipping, and that we can halve emissions for domestic shipping by 2030. I want time bets on rail and intercity that make people choose trains in front of a car. And if you want to choose a car, I hope that people who buy a new car will buy a zero-emission car. That is why I also want a charging infrastructure for electric cars throughout the country, far out in the country, because there should be no difference between you who live in the city and us who live in the countryside. I want to convert to fossil-free plastic. We all agree that we do not want plastic garbage in the sea. It's created a pretty big commitment around it, but often we forget the production of plastic, and it's at least as harmful. I want us to step up efforts to combat marine pollution, including: by increasing support for those who clean up. I want even better climate reporting in the state budget, so that we who adopt things here on the Stortinget, actually see what is done, and that we know that it works. Climate policy must work, also for ordinary people. Climate policy is not just about bans or charges, as representatives of the Central Party have previously claimed. It's not about making everyday life more difficult for people, or as an SV said in a climate debate I was on last week: it's going to sweat. Then I thought, "No, it shouldn't matter, our job in this house is to provide new ideas and better solutions, solutions that make it easier to choose green, not worse." Our climate policy must also create jobs and facilitate green business development. We need something to live off after the oil, because whether we want to or not – now I might be shut up – the oil age is going to go over. That is why I am particularly pleased that the government platform actually contains my entire wish list, which I sent to the daemon before Christmas. So I know that we who sit here in the hall, don't do this alone -- we up here on the mountain are close to 5.3 million Northers, we're no greater than the margin of error in the census in India. I know it can scare some representatives from the Central Party, but we have to cooperate with people outside the borders of Norway. We can't save the world alone. That's why the evolution that we see in some circles is pretty daunting. Globalists call us. It's a little bit of a taste when they say it. There are some who believe that such a little cliché mix of protectionism and nationalism is not particularly forward-looking. Some politicians are talking international cooperation down, we've heard it in this room today, and I think it's unsafe and on the edge of selfish. Climate challenges are global, and they are impossible to solve without international cooperation. In an insecure world where the debate is about building walls and reporting, Norway has been given a government platform to promote cooperation, security and inclusion. There has never been so much for climate during any other government in Norway's history. Then you might say that it's because previous governments haven't understood what a huge challenge greenhouse gas emissions are. I think the generations that come after us sitting here in the hall are going to judge our parental regeneration harshly and brutally. It's kind of like when we're sitting today looking at cigarette matches from the 1950s, and when we're a little bit laughed at that some of our political heroes were in TV debates and sat and smoked in the studio. None of us want to go back to the flights where there was just a little curtain that separated us who didn't smoke, and those who smoked. I track that in a few years, none of us will return to streets full of fossil cars and urban centers full of smog. It's going to seem old-fashioned, it's going to seem strange. The future is bright, clean and green, and the new central bourgeois government has put on the green leadership sweater and secure Norway for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2161	This government has been good at making fortune-telling a shame, and one of the things that has been made a shame is what is involved in the finances of the municipalities. There have been no limits to how wrong it would be in this country, especially if the Progress Party got a hand on the steering wheel. We've got that, and the local economy hasn't been that good in a long time. When we took over from the red-green ones, in 2014 54 municipalities were registered on the ROBEK list. Now there are 17 municipalities. It says a little that there has been an enormously good development also for the municipalities in Norway. And when the local economy is good, it should also benefit the inhabitants. Already on the Jeløya platform, we decided to lower the maximum rate of property tax from 7 per million to 5 per million. Now it has to be even lower. That's because the municipalities have the opportunity. It is strange to hear the rapporteurs of the Labour Party and the Central Party go out and argue that they have to cut the offer to the elderly if the property tax is to be reduced. It's completely wrong. The main tasks of municipalities are to provide effective services and to provide people with the services they require. People pay taxes to get those services. Older people pay in addition 85 pst. of their income to the municipality in order to obtain those services. Then I think it's nice that the Workers' Party and the Center Party say they're going to cut to the elderly if they don't get to stick their hand just as far down in people's pockets. The representative Gahr Støre said earlier today that the Workers' Party does not take a penny more into tax than it needs. Then I just want to remind you that Arbeiderparti-steered Oslo would have gone with 2.1 billion. NOK in profit even without the property tax. The Arbeiderparti-steerte Bergen municipality would have gone with 300 million. NOK in profit even without the property tax. Then it is with respect to not reporting correctly that the Workers' Party does not include more in property taxes than is necessary. Apart from the property tax, the Progress Party believes that municipalities should govern their own policies. It is the municipalities that are best able to control their land policy, and it is the inhabitants of the municipalities that are best able to control their property. There were many predictions as to how it would work if we failed at people's opportunity to build a garage without looking for the municipality. It went very well. The predictions there were also made to shame, and now we're going to open up even more freedom for those who own properties, to do what they want on their own property. For five years, the Progress Party has been guiding immigration policy, and that has been very necessary. We have been through an asylum crisis that we have handled very well, and now the arrival figures are very low. While the left has been most concerned about protecting those who do not need protection in Norway, those who have finally been refused their application, and those who make groundless asylum applications, the Progress Party has been committed to tightening up. Because you don't help anyone, you don't show solidarity, if you just fight for those who don't have a basis for staying in Norway. In fact, it is important to bet on revealing cheaters in the asylum chain, because it is the biggest threat to the entire asylum institution. It is important to protect the institution of asylum because, in turn, it is the greatest threat to the sustainability of the welfare state. Then I am pleased that this government's platform now has the main focus of protecting the sustainability of the welfare state. Then it is also important to contact those who travel on vacation to their home country when they have received protection from the same country. There will also be additional measures from this government. We are also going to use aid as a means of pressurising those countries that do not fulfil their obligations to accept their own citizens who have been rejected in Norway. It is important for the protection of the welfare society; it is important for the protection of the asylum institution.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2180	To negotiate a government platform is to negotiate with other parties. To negotiate and cooperate means respect, trust, give and take. I understand that the debate gets big when you get a majority government, but I'm amazed at the beginning of this debate, where one glamorizes a little with opinions that other parties have, which I almost experience that don't trust and respect each other. A society on its way at full speed needs solid roots. It is underlined in the platform that our Christian and humanistic heritage and tradition have given us values such as human dignity, closeness of mind, and trustworthiness. Norway’s anchoring in Christian values is evident in this government’s political platform. This was important for the Christian People's Party. We've had important breakthroughs, and we believe we've pulled the government platform towards the center. With the Christian People's Party in government, we get a child reform – with increased child welfare for the smallest, leisure cards for the older kids and increased one-time support for parents who are not entitled to parental leave. One of the most important things a society can do, which creates sustainable societies, well-being societies, is to facilitate our young people's safe and well-growth. I am particularly proud that this government is going to present an equilateral reform. I get upset when I hear about people who aren't allowed to be part of our community, or about parents who have to fight the system to find good solutions for their kids. On Sunday, I met Mari Storstein. She asked a timely question: ‘Is there a special need to go to do, have to wash, have to go, have to attend school, be allowed to go to work?’ No, it’s not special, but there are people who can’t do it by themselves. They need help from others, and then the BPA is a gender equality tool. They're not special, with special needs, but they have as much rights as you and I to participate in society. Everyone who is expecting children with challenges knows that they need help from society in a different way. Then getting a coordinator before the child is born is important to the family, so they don't have to be the CEO of their own family. However, it is also important for the municipality to facilitate a society in which it can best contribute. I have been given the honour to become Minister of Agriculture and Food. Agriculture is important for Norway. Agriculture contributes to activity and housing throughout the country. That makes us get a quality food that makes us proud, a quality food that we compete with the world over. It's important for health, it's important for folks, it's important for kids, and it's important for adults. Tradition and food, culture and food, integration and innovation, production and processing – this is about Norwegian agriculture. We also know that no one has changed as much as Norwegian agriculture and has taken on new challenges. We have also taken a global responsibility after the war in the Balkans. Norwegian farmers from the Jären were involved and made the cooperative model in the Balkans, just to run aid. What I love most about this platform is that Norway should take an international initiative – because in India we lack 60 million girls. They're sorted away for one reason -- they're girls. The world lacks almost 200 million women, as many women as there are in the United States. This is our responsibility, this is equality, this is assistance, this is raising women around the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2203	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2208	Even after the driest summer of over 100 years and then a harvest with large amounts of precipitation and difficult production conditions, it may seem that the Christian People's Party in the government platform has negotiated away preparedness efforts, with the emergency storage of cereals, which Stortinget has decided we should have a separate case this year. It's actually little incredible when this government has previously claimed to be concerned with the preparedness. It's hard to provide security for people if we only have balls, but we don't have food. That is why the Minister of Agriculture and the active leader of the Christian People's Party, Olaug Bollestad, must make a clear response: Is it that the stockpiling of cereals will take place in 2019? Will that work be followed up as it should?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2213	If we knew what we knew, it was the climate challenge, the drought and, as we all knew, Norwegian agriculture — and we all — was exposed to last year. That means we have challenges on the climate side that we have to take seriously. That means that we also need to get grain varieties, types of vegetables and grass that we produce, that cope with some of the climate change that comes. Yes, I will take seriously the decision that lies in the Stortingen on preparedness. I want to come back with a matter about this in 2019. I don't want to say what the conclusion is, but I'm going to come back to Stortinget with a case.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2218	It's good that we get a case for Stortinget, as we're going to. I am absolutely sure that all the KrFs in this room want to vote in accordance with the red-green agricultural exposure here for better security for our citizens in Norway. A new theme – since state council Bollestad also represents the Christian People's Party in government: the everyday security of people throughout our country is, of course, about food, that older people should also have food in nursing homes. We are also concerned that we should have public hospitals throughout Norway, which can offer that security. Then I wonder: it has come to mind in the Chamber that there can be massive privatisation, as in the Swedish model. How does the Minister think that the Swedish privatised model of care for the elderly will affect the security of the elderly for food and care in our country?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2225	First, the government is concerned that you have a society built from below. It means good care, good security, good nursing homes where people are. That means quality food. That means using traditional food. This means using the senses of the elderly to feed. That means good food – even in our kindergartens. But then the Christian People's Party also has faith in public health. That's good. But we also believe that some older people have a desire to choose. We also see that when people who live at home today choose laundry help. They want to visit home. We see that there are many who can contribute. But there is no doubt that the public health service should be the bearer, both in the municipality and in the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2230	Safe food was an important and good key. We have this in Norway, among others. because we have food production throughout the country, and a food production that allows people to take care of their animals. It's just that we use very little antibiotics in Norwegian food production. It is also an advantage that we have the scattered agricultural model that we have. It stands in contrast to a massive centralisation policy, where production is to be collected in just a few uses, and very many animals in a small area. That is why I want to challenge the Minister of Agriculture: how will the policy be transformed after the Christian People's Party has entered the government? Will there be any decisions the Council of State will change when we have now received a Minister of Agriculture from a party other than the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2237	Agriculture uses less antibiotics. Dogs, small animals – pets – actually do too. I think that's important, not just for agriculture. It's also incredibly important to people's health. These two things are connected. When we have a spread of agriculture, it is important, for both widespread housing and widespread farming. But it's also about many places where the farmers themselves – if you go to the flat Jären, where I come from – bought up neighboring farms that have been smaller, because they have needed larger spreads, and others have stopped the drift. Then it's better that there'll be larger units than that the earth is set to fall. However, we should have space and use for scattered operations and different sizes in agriculture — on agricultural holdings and operations.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2244	There are now negotiations on a voluntary climate agreement between the government and agriculture to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from Norwegian agriculture. In connection with this, a large number of Stortinget said in December – all parties except SV – that it was not appropriate to impose a charge on emissions from so-called biological processes. So my question is: will the Council of State and the Government base the important principle of the current negotiations on Norwegian agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2250	Clearly, we want to take with us what has been decided upon in the Storting. At the same time, I want to say that one of the biggest challenges both for agriculture and for us is climate. That is why this sample has been reduced, which is now coming up with its proposals. What I've seen in Norwegian agriculture on the technology side up over the years is that it's exactly on this side that we've been more forward-looking than anyone else. I look forward to getting it from agriculture itself, what they come with, but also looking at what has come into consultations, in order to achieve the goal of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2257	In the Storting, a decision has been taken to have a resilient development of Norwegian fur animal nutrition. In the government platform, there is a warning that this will be undone and that a business ban will be introduced for the first time in history in Norway. In one case at NRK there is a young couple named Erik and Beate, who have invested 10 million. kr to produce fur, with the best animal welfare in the world. They're being hit by a food ban like that. They fear for the future. And the worst of all, with the compensation scheme outlined in the government platform, which has been sent on a ring, they will become debt slaves and risk having to leave the yard and land. So my question to the Minister of Agriculture is, can she guarantee that no one will suffer financially because of this decision that there is likely to be a majority in the Stortinget now?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2266	If there's something I think has been difficult, it's meeting exactly the same fur farmers that the representative has met, meeting families, meeting the industries around that are actually also part of the whole chain of fur animal nutrition. It's not just the farmers who want to notice this. Now there's a proposition sent out at the hearing. There's a lot of input coming up. The sum available is an estimate. What we are concerned about, and which is also stated in the statement, is that we need to look at the compensation schemes and the support, just to make sure that the young couple are not left as you describe. It's important for us when actually going to the industry. Then I want to say that this has been an industry of which there has been great political discussion, both in the previous government and in this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2271	The President would like to point out that Bollestad does not have to say "you" to Pollestad.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2276	I'm not going to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2281	In the case of fur nutrition, there are some realities. Under the previous government the proposed industry was not created. A large process was started with a public statement, a public hearing and a discussion in Stortinget with a hearing in Stortinget, too. A large number of people at Stortinget said that we want a sustainable development of this industry. So one of them turns up on the everyday life of a lot of families in Norway on the day. Then you can discuss here or there a compensation scheme if this decision and the food ban are implemented, but one must expect that the Minister of Agriculture and the Government, who holds private ownership high, can say that no one is going to suffer financially and must go from the garden to the ground. Can the Minister of Agriculture say that?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2286	I want to look at the hearing replies first, because it is important to me that we ensure those who are actually affected by this. But we also have to look at the stabbestones: depreciation – who is it that has written off, who is it that has new buildings, who is it that has old buildings, who is it that has debt? It's not just a simple picture. But we want to ensure that families like the ones you describe – as the representative Pollestad describes, regret the President – must be sure that they will not be left in debt.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2291	I must first say congratulations as Minister for Agriculture! I have great hopes for Bollestad and the work she is facing. In June 2017, something that has not happened before – there was a number when the Stortingen gathered to reduce the income gap between farmers and other groups in society, and that this reduction in income was going to happen in a chronic way – a real change. That plurality existed, among others: by the Christian People's Party, the Workers' Party, SV, the Centre Party, etc. It's been one and a half years. Governments are getting into the job at a very exciting time, just before a new agricultural business is started. It is impossible to look from the standpoint of the declaration of that unity. So my question is simply: will the government add up to a chronic reduction in income differences between farmers and other groups in society?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2300	The government is concerned that there are four stakes in the platform on what should be bearable, and there is also an important piece of farming to ensure farmers' future. It is also important to give guidance on income, but also on how to carry it forward. I think that's settled, and then we're going to make the offer when we get to the agricultural settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2307	What's solid today is the setting that had multiples in Stortinget, where it says it's going to be a chronic smoothing of the differences between farmers and other groups in society. That's what's stuck. Since it is not mentioned anywhere that one should go away from it, one must assume that it is the same thing as it is. But the platform adds the following to it, and I quote one of the points: ‘In order to ensure recruitment and income opportunities for those who use all or most of their labour in the industry, it is important to reduce the income gap between agriculture and others in society.’ So the question is, is it just to raise those who use their entire workforce in the industry, or do you want to set up a race that will give a whole farm a lift, so that one can use more of the land? It is, of course, a core question of agricultural policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2319	If the government wants an agricultural policy all over the country — and the government does — we want there to be a basis for living on its farm because there is enough income to live on without working alongside it, then it's carrying on in these areas. But it is also clear that in some areas of our country – in Ryfylke, where I was born and raised – there are small farms, small cadastral parcels, maybe only 20 deer with cultivated soil, and where the rest have to run with sheep and do not have sufficient income for this. There are important farms in the main context of using the area we have, but it is clear that we also have to assume that smaller units have an opportunity to be cared for in Norwegian agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2325	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2330	New year, new government – but for every new government Prime Minister Solberg presents, enthusiasm seems to be falling. I saw the party leader debate the same night that the platform was launched, along with some young people. One of the comments that fell was the following: But they do not agree on what they have agreed on! And this was the first night. For health policy, there was a clear right triangle. The question is whether it is the price the Christian People's Party had to pay for veto rights in terms of changes to the biotechnology law and the restriction of women's self-determination in connection with abortion law. It is a heavy symbolism that the Prime Minister makes a direct call to women to have more children and then to turn to the door when the bulk of the population has enabled women to get help from health care to get pregnant. Even more paradoxical is the fact that the sectionary Torbjørn Moe Eggø at St. Olav's hospital told TV 2 last weekend that they have found a link between foetal reduction of multiples and assisted fertilization abroad. The reason is that many eggs are added abroad to the woman, which leads to a pregnancy with several foetuses. In Norway, a different method with fewer prisoners would be chosen. But it's forbidden, and it still has to be. It's probably heavy for those who've had their dream of having their own children crushed in a few hours on the Granavolden. The abortion law should never come to the negotiating table. Erna Solberg used women's abortion rights to achieve her dream of a four-party government. Continuously, the rest of the health policy has been turned to the right. More privatisation is the wrong medicine. Health service is not a customer relationship, but a fundamental right, a contract between the community and each individual – security! Some beautiful promises can be found in the platform: decentralise specialist health services Review of the prehospital services strengthen the capacity and competence of emergency medical services outside hospitals; But the realities of hospitals are quite different. We see that country being cut off in psychiatry, rehabilitation services and ambulance services. In Møre and Romesdal, rehabilitation services, beds at district psychiatric centers, the offer to revenators and the ambulance service were cut. With the Workers' Party's alternative budget, they'd have 54 million. kr extra to route with. In Finland, beds were cut in multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment and in the psychiatry service in Oppland. With the Workers' Party's alternative budget, they would have 81 million. kr extra to route with. It is of little help that the platform proposes to strengthen emergency medicine and regional services when the government’s own budget goes up to cut the ambulance service and important health services near the population. The Labour Party believes that the new points in the Government Declaration must be followed up with a commitment to the hospital economy – unless this is just a message to the professionals out there to jump even faster. The aim of the Workers' Party is a society that promotes good health and quality of life for all and that prevents disease. It's about who we are, and who we want to be, as a community and as an individual – a health service where the foremost of medical expertise is available to everyone when you need it, no matter who you are, or where you live in the country. The Workers' Party will continue to work on this. Unfortunately, we will no longer be supported by the Christian People's Party representatives in this period. We are pleased with the majority decisions that reflected a different majority in the previous period, especially in health policy, but we will show a clear and clear alternative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2359	There is nothing more important for us to solve, because there is so much else that we can solve this – climate change must define the policy pursued, the public debate and the solutions we choose. Climate is complicated, communication is difficult, and there are no simple solutions. Structural changes need to be made. They must be pervasive and permeating, and they must cover everything. It involves restructuring and conversion in all sectors. But it'll only be harder if we wait. Man-made climate change requires more of us every year that goes. It is no longer possible to call yourself financially responsible and, at the same time, not work to combat climate change. Economically, it's irresponsible, but it's also irresponsible if we want generations after us to be able to enjoy the amazing natural values this country has to offer. It is irresponsible in terms of food production, irresponsible if we want to use the whole country and it should be possible to live in places where it has always lived the North. But it is also morally irresponsible toward the poor of the world. The difference of 1.5 degrees and 2 degrees is how many hundreds of millions are sentenced to a life of poverty. If you are not actively working to combat climate change, you are not just irresponsible, you are also unsolidated. We have to have a new way of thinking about and operating in order for us to be able to keep what we have. It's an important conservative value. We're not going to end up with economic growth, as some in this room call for, because it's going to affect our well-being. Not just that: it will make it absolutely impossible for the world to achieve its sustainability goals. No, we need to decouple growth from emissions. Norwegian welfare shall be a green welfare. That means that when the government raises the non-quota sector target to 45 pst, we should be aware that it is a difficult goal to achieve. It demands that all sectors contribute, and that all sectors cut, and that is exactly what this government puts up in the platform. The level of ambition is raised, yes, but the platform also follows up with the necessary action. Norwegian climate policy should be both about making demands and that we as a community contribute to the necessary transformation. That's why we have to make it more expensive to pollute every year, while all of us are involved in making Norwegian jobs greener, for example. with the massive investment of this government in climate technology. Norway has unique possibilities for zero emission solutions. Firstly, we have shown how to create a market for new zero-emission solutions through electric car policy. The world looks at it, and we've become a test market. At the same time, almost all the energy we consume in Norway is renewable. We have a very special competence in the development of renewable energy, but also in storage. That competence gives our country enormous opportunities, but it also provides opportunities for us to help phase out coal on an international basis. Global greenhouse gas emissions have risen — most of them due to coal. Many poor countries are planning to build more coal-fired power plants, and this is not so strange, as it is about. One billion people in the world today who don't have energy. They need help because we want these countries to be able to skip the fossil phase. If we can't contribute to this, we can just forget to solve the climate problems. But that's what the government is proposing for us to do – an international effort and an international initiative to just phase out coal and just to help developing developing countries build renewable energy. This is the most offensive and comprehensive government platform ever presented in Norway in the field of climate – and we should be quite proud of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2382	This is definitely an offensive and clear platform, but it is especially to have been sitting and listening to the debate both in the hall and on TV. When I heard the first speaker, Jonas Gahr Støre, it was just negativity; it was just sutring; there was nothing at all that was good with this political platform. It was the mantra of increasing differences and not taking people into account. But the whole purpose of this platform is not increased differences, but more opportunities, more freedom of choice for those to be provided services from, among others. the public. That is what this is all about, and what we are now discussing. It was interesting to hear the representative Gahr Støre speaking down the Swedish kindergarten model. Most people sitting in the hall can only google and see how long social democrats have run Sweden. They've run Sweden over the last few years, and I guess you haven't seen any big signs that you're going to change it. But that gives you choices. So the Labour Party representative said you're so opposed to this with privatisation and competition. What's a shame is that the whole argument is that these are some bad, terrible things, that people are going to have the opportunity to choose. For me, it's actually really great. I think it is good that you should be able to say that this is not good enough, I want an even better offer, and then I will choose someone else who can give me that offer. When I hear the debate – and when I asked questions instead of the representative of Moxnes – I think it's okay with basic training in what this is all about. To make it very simple, if you have 10 kroner, and it costs 10 dollars to deliver the service to the public, and then there are some private or ideals that can deliver it to 7 dollars, then you have 3 dollars left. So the question is how to use the three heads. The assumption is that you get the exact same offer. Then, as the Labour Party and Red often say, you can choose that we still have to pay more to get some services. But we actually think that it's smart to let a few people look at the possibility of maybe using the extra three heads. Then we can use it to give even more services, and it'll be a lot better than being happy to get what you get, as long as you get the exact same offer, or a better offer by paying a little bit more. And if someone was also going to be able to get some profit, I think that must be okay. But I understand that for some, the most important thing is how many dollars you spend, not what services and offers those who are going to receive this are going to get. I thought it was getting a little negative here now, so instead I want to be positive – to some of the very good things that the Progress Party has come through for. This is to double the infrastructure fund over two years. That means you double up to 200 billion. kr. This is something the Progress Party has been fighting for for for many years. I have stood on this pulpit many times, but before the Right and Advance Party entered the government, and before the cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left, this was not possible. But now it is. It opens for 120 km of speed limit. I took part in pressing the button when we got a speed limit of 110 km. There is something very many drivers are busy about. We have doubled the subsidy scheme to reduce the toll burden. There's something lying there. There are tax deductions for high toll costs. It's important for most people. We remove the one-time charge on cars that are over 20 years old. It's important to many. The property tax shall be reduced by an additional 1 per million. It is also important, and it is about ordinary people and their economy. I registered that the representative from the Workers' Party said that the municipalities do not print out a single penny more than for what you need. But I think there are a lot of examples of how to use property taxes around a lot of municipalities, and that's why I'm glad that we've got this through in the platform, that you have to reduce property taxes for the benefit of most people and a lot of people who have the challenges of getting their everyday lives up. We've seen people who have to take their children out of kindergarten because you can't afford to pay property taxes, and that's not what I think it should be. That's why I'm very pleased with what's on the platform.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2397	Two days before the new government platform was presented, we were told what is this government's real climate policy. 53 years after the first permits for oil extraction were granted on the Norwegian base, the oil industry received record new permits – a whole 83 new permits were granted. It's silent and it's oil policy. So the oil industry, which has increased its emissions most of all, must be allowed to continue as before. This is the opposite of a green policy for the many – this is a gray for the few. The government deliberately steers towards breaking Norway’s target of large emissions reductions by 2020. That is why the government is now trying to talk about new promises about emissions cuts, emissions cuts to be made in a few years’ time – by someone else. The government platform states that the government will: ‘For Norway’s non-quota emissions to be reduced by at least 45 per cent compared to 2005.’» That's a good target. It goes on to say: ‘The government aims to reduce this by means of domestic measures and plans to do so.’ That's also good, but then it says, ‘If strictly necessary, the flexibility of the EU framework may be used.’ This flexibility means that Norway may not do emissions cuts itself, against buying emissions cuts in other countries. Let's see what the government's got for the five years they've run the climate policy. They boast of emission cuts, but it's not the emissions they've cut, it's the rain forest. They have sunk the climate policy of palm oil and rain forest destruction. The government's beautiful word is not a believer. Climate action cannot be taken elsewhere in another country by anyone else. They have to be taken now, they have to be taken here in Norway, and they have to be taken in the rest of the world. This government is failing there. Let me do some examples. On Monday, Prime Minister Siemens opened the new battery factory in Trondheim. The factory may become important to cut emissions of dangerous greenhouse gases from boats at sea, but then we have to have a climate policy that ensures that the order books for Siemens and other battery producers are filled up. The government parties could have made sure of this as early as tomorrow. They could then have voted in favour of several of the SV’s proposals, which would not only cut emissions in Norway but would also provide jobs, technology development and battery production in Trondheim. Siemens and other battery producers can provide large emissions reductions in one of the richest industries in Norway, in the farming industry. In the farming industry, we have large emissions, not only of dirt and feed residues, but also of greenhouse gases. It emits almost 0.5 million. tonnes of CO 2 from the installations and boats used but need not be. SV has submitted proposals that climate requirements should be imposed in all new concessions for the farming industry, but do the right, the Progress Party, the Left or the Christian People's Party vote in favour? No – our main and our biggest challenge, the climate turmoil, is obviously not big enough for us to impose climate requirements on an industry where profits are enormous. It is more important to protect the salmon barons than to cut their emissions. Instead of cutting emissions, as SV suggests, the government will investigate the climate problem. Investigations are good, but we already have nearly 8 kg of public investigations that show how emissions can be cut. We know a lot about what's going on to cut the emissions. We can't just initiate new investigations, we also have to do some of what we've already figured out and know how to do. Instead, we will see that the government parties will vote together tomorrow against all proposals for new emissions reductions in Norway. They'll probably do it with posts where they'll paint the government platform, but words won't save us from the climate turmoil. That's the action that does.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2431	I would like to begin by welcoming to cooperation with Stortinget an historic four-party government – or actually three-and-a-half-party government. But it's historic. I also think that we have been through a political harvest that I – despite having followed Norwegian policy for a good few years – have never experienced my husband. There have been exciting political discussions, with real political discussions, and I would say that I have been very impressed by the way former party leader Hareide openly and confidently led an important discussion for the party. I am also very pleased that he expressed to our party leader that he did not want any interference in the process, and that our party leader respected it. It is simply so that I will bend in the dust for the job that Hareide did, and express that he is interrupting his leadership in a way that imposes great respect. But then the Prime Minister's role in that matter stands in very strong contrast to that. It has become known that the initiative for the public discussion on §2c of the Abortion Act came from the Communications Department to the Right, which inspired the representative Roppstad to ask questions, so that the Prime Minister could give an answer that yes, it could be discussed. People were reasonably upset about the reality of the matter, but not least about the fact that a serious and important matter with which we should be able to discuss jointly – insofar as it was to be discussed – was the subject of political games. The government statement clarifies that the purpose of that proposal and that debate was that the conservative side of the Christian People's Party should win on the question of choice of side. They did it, with the help of the Rogaland Christian People's Party and the majority that was gradually established – which was little. What has not been clarified is whether it was the Prime Minister who tricked Ropstad and the Christian People's Party, or whether it was the Prime Minister and the Ropstad who tricked the Christian People's Party. When we then know that both of the two former centre parties went to the election that they would not sit in government with the Advance Party, there was great respect for the former leader. So maybe you could imagine that when a former center party enters government, there's going to be more center policy. But it hasn't been. When we look at the government platform, we see that it is a guarantee that the policy of the Progress Party in particular will continue. Many people have commented on the way the chairs in this room are set up. It is described as someone sitting in the front seat, and someone sitting in the back seat. For me, it looks like those sitting in the back seat are happy to be on the road, but it's those sitting in the front seat, who decide. And in the course of today I have noticed that it is the Minister of Finance who sits in the driver's seat. That is why it may be right, as the Minister of Finance said, that now the policies of the Progress Party are no longer stopped by the Stortinget. That's what worries me politically, that a party that has declared war on the Norwegian model that has given us one of the world's best welfare societies has now received support to continue that war against the Norwegian model. Because we have been told that the tax policy that both leads to increased disparities — by tax relief for the rich while for the benefit of workers — and also reduces the possibility of financing the welfare society in the future is a policy to be pursued. I have registered unusually little enthusiasm in the parties that are now part of a new government. That might not be so weird. Either way, we want to meet them with strong and objective opposition from the opposition parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2448	A substantive opposition is more than welcome. In 1997, Telenor had to give up removing a telephone kiosk in Bjørkedalen after people in the village tied it up. The reason for removing it was that over 98 pst. by the households in the village had their own telephone, and in addition it was the development of mobile networks. There was no longer a need for the kiosk, said Telenor. But first the local store disappeared. The post office was then closed. The red telephone kiosks became a symbol of the Battle of Building Norway against deportation. And this was in 1997. Politics is about the near things. Although the phone booth was superfluous, the struggle was about something quite different. In a world of great upheavals around us, the sense of abstinence can sometimes take over. We see it in social media, in the lawn outside the Stortinget and in the political debate. Despotism is given power through slogans and campaigns. We have a former minister, now party leader, who is dressed in a TV studio in Oslo and talks about the real-life elite in dress in Oslo. But isn't it more realistic to dream back to when we had more post offices and phone booths, than to work for the community we can get when the Internet has decentralised mail and telephony to all households, and brought the cinema, the shopping mall and the girl boy in the corner of the Henhorn on Facebook home to people, who previously only had a post office and a phone booth? The world has never been as close as it is now. Still, some find it most opportunistic only to talk about differences and distances. My point is not that these don't exist, because they do. That is why we have a redistributive tax system that finances basic welfare goods, such as reasonable quality health care, school and education that provides opportunities for all, and labour market measures that help people get into or back to work. Unlike countries such as the United Kingdom and the United States, there is a cross-political consensus in Norway on these instruments — and they have been used. It is therefore strange to see how countries we cannot compare with, used by our Norwegian politicians and commentators to polarize our domestic debate. It is rocking by the robustness of our democracy. Unless there has been the oil money that has tied us together, and soothed the stormy seas like oil on water – because when someone has said that everyone is going, it has basically meant that everyone is going to get. Attempts to make minor changes are called petty and unnecessary — such as the modification of the cultural spaser stick scheme or the removal of a monthly pension payment information. As the cultural budget increased by over 6 pst. In 2014, Norwegian artists called it a disaster and announced demonstrations because 53 scholarships nevertheless disappeared. No one demonstrated when 50 000 jobs disappeared in our most profitable industry. There is a reason to ask where people believe money for artists' scholarships and cultural walking sticks comes from – especially when we are going to change and provide profitable jobs across the country, which contribute to the welfare we want, in cities and towns. Although differences have increased in the last 20 years, Norway is at the top of the world in terms of economic equality. In Norway, responsible governance parties over decades have pursued policies that have helped to change to preserve the values on which our society is based. Those who rock this to create short-term party political gain – with today’s international flows – play with forces greater than themselves. Right will secure Norway for the future and create a sustainable welfare society with opportunities for all. We believe that society exists for individuals, and that community is something more than what can be adopted in budgets. It's not one community, but the many communities that give Norway social sustainability. One of the most important things we're betting on is a school that contributes to equal opportunities for everyone. They say that a good childhood lasts life. Our job is to make sure that a bad childhood doesn't. Under the City Council of the Right, Oslo School became a concept – a school for social mobility, which lifted them with the worst assumptions. Now, the Labour Party in Oslo will look at the admission limits for the school and once again let socio-economic background determine what opportunities our children have. It has a meaning who governs school policy, both nationally and locally. With this government, the national school results point in the right direction, where more complete, more have a place to learn, and fewer fall outside. I hope Oslo gets a city council to take care of the same thing. There's still a red phone booth in Bjørkedalen, but the sumton is gone. Norway is in transition, a transition that offers great opportunities for the future throughout the country — if we choose to use them. The government platform does not link us firmly in the past, but lays the groundwork for us to do as generations before us, who, through hard work, transformed the opportunities they were given to create a sustainable welfare society. And if there's any doubt, I'm an enthusiastic fan of just that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2486	When the Party's negotiating delegation went to Granavolden to negotiate with the Right, Left and Christian People's Party for an extended government and a new government platform, it was with a very clear and clear mandate from us in the big crowd and from our national government: we should have an impact on a more stringent asylum and immigration policy, continue and strengthen the historical commitment to transport and infrastructure, and last but not least – taxes and charges should be further reduced for most people and businesses, not up. When one reads newspapers this day and listens to debates here in Stortinget, it is clear that it is not just us in the Progress Party who believe that we have been well paid in the declaration. That also means the opposition – and in particular the Workers' Party and Jonas Gahr Støre, we can read and hear. I am pleased that the Workers' Party shares our view that the platform contains a very good FrP policy. At least we can agree on one point. The alternative to the policy of this platform is a policy that increases taxes and charges for ordinary people, a policy that would reverse the over NOK 11 000 that an average family has been relieved so far by this government. The alternative would be a policy that set the mark on property taxes, which ordinary workers pay only because they have a place to live. The alternative would be increased car and car-related charges, which mainly affect those who do not have alternatives such as trams, buses and trains – people outside the big cities. Tax relief means a more liberal economy for the individual and for the individual family, but it also has a value in addition to it. That means people get a little more responsibility for their lives at the expense of us politicians. There is in particular one division in this hall. It goes between those who think that a politician is always the best one to take care of and spend people's money, and us, who believe that the state should take in no more than the state strictly manages. For some batches it seems that levying taxes has a value in itself. Fortunately, this does not mean the majority in this Chamber. Therefore, we clearly state in the government platform that the overall tax burden should be further reduced. The property tax is one of the most unsocial taxes we have in this country. It doesn't take into account what you earn or what you have of values on the account, except the property you live in. We believe that people's homes should be just that – a home, not a treasure item. That's why we want to remove the entire property tax. On the way there, we got an average in the Jeløya platform to cut the maximum from 7 to 5 per mille. Now we're going to go down to 4 per million, so that about one in three municipalities have to cut the property tax. This is not primarily a victory for us in the Advancement Party, but a victory for the inhabitants of the country. I see that someone is trying to get this to be about municipalities losing badly needed funds for important welfare tasks. Then it's worth remembering that the welfare tasks that the municipalities do are already funded by the taxes that we all pay. There are enough examples of municipalities that do well without property taxes. We in Hordaland and Ullensaker are examples of good FrP municipalities without property tax. Stjørdal and Orkdal, two central party-driven municipalities from my home country, are the same. These do not have lower services just because they do not have property taxes — on the contrary. The property tax largely exempts politicians around the municipalities from prioritizing. You just send an extra bill to the municipality's residents instead. That's probably the easiest way to run politics, but also the cowardliest. Some other points with which the Progress Party is very satisfied are that the user charge on petrol and diesel should not be increased, and that work on converting the one-off fee into a green, but revenue-neutral direction continues. The CO 2 and NO x components are increased, while others are reduced. This is how the car park can become both greener and safer without the car lists being peeled. Car and car-related taxes have actually decreased in recent years, contrary to what was the case under the Central Party regime of Norway — although trying to give the impression of something else. In the area of taxation, we have received a very good statement, which states that taxes and charges should go down – not up. It is very pleased with the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2513	Norwegian society is characterised by trust, openness and small differences. We have high value creation and well-developed welfare systems. It is our duty to care for and further develop this society for future generations. Since the 2013 elections, the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have cooperated on necessary reforms. We have eased the burden on those who create jobs, and invested more in children's and young people's education. The results show that we're on the right track. Freedom goes down, and more people come to work. In school, the results have improved. The students learn more, they are more present, and more complete and exist. That it goes in the right direction doesn't mean that we're in the right direction. The Granavolden platform raises ambitions in several areas. The sustainability of our well-being society requires that we continue the transition to the Norwegian economy, that we promote the green shift, and that more people must be included in the labour market while we are more at work. We need to make the necessary changes today in the interests of climate and environment, economic and social sustainability and the welfare of future generations. In the last year, 56 000 new jobs have been created – three quarters in the private sector. That shows that the policy is working. Of course, economic activity is important. At the same time, industrial policy is an important area of conflict in Norwegian policy. Where the red-greens will make it more expensive to work and more expensive to create jobs, we will relieve the burdens on job creators and reduce the tax on work. In the government platform, we also warn of our own strategy for small and medium-sized enterprises. Norwegian business consists mainly of small and medium-sized enterprises. We will create a simpler everyday life for job creators and assess whether the tool hits them in a good enough way. The most important investment we make in the future is in people — in children in kindergarten and at school, in apprentices who have chosen a profession, in students in higher education and in the labour force. A lot goes in the right direction in school. Yesterday, new numbers came to confirm it. Fewer children now experience bullying at school. It's good that it's going the right way, but still there's too many kids who go with a lump in their stomachs when they go to school. The inclusive and good school environment is an important prerequisite for everyone to experience mastering and learning. Children will gradually change work processes more quickly than before in an international working life where new technologies change work processes more quickly than before. That's why we're going to keep renewing school. Students shall meet qualified and competent teachers. We're going to strengthen real science in the middle and English in higher education. Since 2013, we have been lifting the professions. Several now choose a professional profession, and high-ranking people get a place to learn. That work shall continue. We have also started work on a reform of competences. We all have to prepare to learn all our lives. The government has put forward a new strategy for integration policy. The main action is to build the knowledge path into working and social life. In order to succeed in integrating, we also need to prevent exclusion and poverty, which particularly affect children. Anyone living in Norway must be able to speak and understand Norwegian. Without being able to turn off a chat, you're standing outside small and big communities in society. It is difficult to get to work or help the children with their homework without being able to speak. We have therefore introduced compulsory training in Norwegian and social sciences in asylum recipients and demands for Norwegian and social knowledge as conditions for residence permits and citizenship. We also want to raise the demand for Norwegian skills for citizenship in Norway – not to keep anyone out, but to get more involved in Norwegian society and community. For the same reason, we are tightening up the settlement policy and avoiding the settlement of refugees in areas with a high migration rate. Several immigrants need to get to work, support themselves and their own and contribute to value creation and growth. It requires a great deal of effort on the part of the individual, but also that we as a society offer equal opportunities for all. The government is now reforming qualification schemes to ensure that immigrants have the skills they themselves and the labour market need.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2547	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2553	We have a good public common school in Norway, but it's not obvious that it is. In precisely these days, the Education Directorate will provide answers as to whether or not almost 50 new private schools should be started. Most likely get yes. It's been the trend of this government. There has been an ever-increasing number of students in private schools; it is now almost 40 pst. more pupils in private primary schools than in 2013. And this is a desirable development – first with the new private school law, or the law of free school, as the Right says, then with the government statement, where more private actors are wanted to be welcomed into well-being. This is a threat to the public common school in the long term, but I see that the Government Declaration states that it should facilitate the provision of high school education of the same quality as the public school. I want to ask the Minister of Knowledge what that means. Does the Minister of Knowledge think that private schools give students lower quality than public schools do today?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2560	I think that the representative Martin Henriksen, if he had looked into it more closely, would find that there may be as large a difference in quality in health schools as it is in public schools. I'm a strong fan of a school that's a common arena for everyone, and it's important that everyone is included. At the same time, it is also an important part of the Norwegian tradition that we have diversity in the school system, that we have schools that go other ways in the field of education, that we have now opened up so that you can also get real-time upper secondary education, and that it is possible to find different alternatives. In the government platform, we state that today's law of free school is to be continued. It does not involve any release; it implies a thorough assessment. We are concerned that there should be a level playing field, and that means that we will of course look at the framework conditions for the free schools – the capital grant is mentioned – and that there has also been extra funding in the budget for the current year, so that the schools can get more teachers.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2567	There really wasn't an answer to the question. I wondered at the wording that colleges should have the opportunity to provide education of the same quality as public school. That means that the Right-led government has let thousands of students – it has been a 40 pst. increase in the number of pupils in private schools in recent years — starting at schools that do not provide the same quality as public schools? But what I then want to ask the Minister of Knowledge about instead is the difference between rhetoric and the result. In 2015, when this boom debated the introduction of a new private school law, one of the arguments, as the Minister of Knowledge also used now, was the introduction of several real-time colleges. It would be a greater diversity. But what's the result so far? A new real-time upper secondary school has been established in Norway. At the same time, around 20 new youth sports schools have been established, with a total of 3000 pupils. I think there is a reason to ask whether these are really schools that offer something significantly different from the public school. It's not a supplement; it's also a competitor. I wonder if the Council of State will be involved in looking at changes in the policy that make sure that the new private schools being created are not a direct competitor and take out of the public budget without actually adding anything new to the school offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2576	First, I answered the question. Then I represent a four-party government. I notice that the Labour Party is trying to call it a Right-Registration. Of course, I think it is very nice that the Right is mentioned, but there is a government with four parties that have all put their clear mark on the government platform, and not least we highlight the policy we stand together for. In the case of fresh oils, I stand still and wonder what the representative Martin Henriksen is so much afraid of. Why are you so afraid of diversity – that you have stone schools and montessory schools, and not least that we have now also opened up to fresh schools in the professional field, which means that people go different ways and maybe find new solutions, and that you can inspire each other? There is no doubt that the public school is a bottom-solid in Norway, and most of the schools are public schools, but we have a small opening for fresh schools, and it is a diversity I would have thought that in 2019 the Workers' Party also looked on as valuable.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2583	We're not afraid of private schools. We ruled on the basis of a private school law itself when we sat in a government that opened up private schools as a supplement in order to preserve parents' freedom of choice. What we're afraid of is a weakening of public school. We're worried about the overrun of local elected representatives that we're now seeing. So in the last few years, since 2013, one of three new private schools has been set up against the will of the municipality or county. When we discussed the private school law in this room in 2015, the then Minister of Knowledge – and the Right Party and the Advance Party – said that the local people elected should now have more say, more participation in the question of whether private schools should be established or not. It hasn't happened. For example, the county council in Northern Ireland unanimously said no, including the voices of the Right Party and the Advance Party, to new private high school because they thought it weakened the public offer. And as with one of three private schools that started, they were run over and got the answer that the school would be set up despite their wishes. Is it true that the promises of more local participation were really an air lock?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2592	We listen to the local politicians, but it's now that it's the Education Directorate that decides in the first place, and the Council of State if it appeals. That's still the way it's going to be. I hear the representative Martin Henriksen is afraid of the public school. Then Martin Henriksen should look at the results after the four parties have cooperated for five years. The result is that the students learn more and are more present, more complete and exist, the grades go up, and the bullying goes down. It speaks for itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2599	Professionals are important and ensure inter alia: good quality craft, in total, from care and care to CNC and machinery. We have completed the years of professional education and may be able to celebrate mainly the recognition of vocational schools as the highest level of vocational education that year. The number of applicants and the dissemination of apprentices is on the path of improvement, without the government having the credit for it. The opening-up of career paths and further career opportunities in higher education have definitely contributed. The candidate numbers of the post-secondary schools were once again formidable in the autumn. Nevertheless, it is unclear what the majority government will do now. Does the opposition have to continue to take initiatives for increased investment in vocational schools? How does the Council of State of Diku think it should be able to pursue professional development at the vocational schools? And why doesn't the Granavolden platform say anything about increasing the number of college places?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2604	I am pleased that we agree that there is a right way in the professional fields as well. The fact that more students now choose a professional course, that we have set a fourth consecutive apprenticeship record, is important. It is important for Norway, it is important for enterprises that need labour, and it is not least good for students and young people who get great opportunities for both work and education by choosing a professional course. Then I feel that the interaction we've had with the constructive part of the opposition, and I'm including the representative in it, has contributed to our further development and raising not least higher professional education, and I'm going to be responsive to the opposition's recordings even in the years that are coming. We have increased the number of places in higher vocational education in 2018 and 2019, and we state that we will continue to invest in higher vocational education, both public and municipal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2609	There's no doubt that if we're going to have increased growth and positiveism in the colleges, we need to have more college places, so I hope we can keep working for that. Furthermore, we can read on the platform that we are now getting suggestions about an extra school time in real science. The majority of the opposition assured us to have an hour of physical activity in primary school daily. The criticism did not wait for itself from the position, with the Right in the head. Then I'm just wondering what makes this proposal not exaggerate the academic judgement of the teachers, while an hour of physical activity does. I also wonder if this is how we now have to adopt an hour of everything we think is good, in order for it to be represented in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2616	I felt that the discussion of physical activity in school was a fine way in the budget position last autumn. What all the parties agreed on there can also be recognized in the Granavolden Declaration, where we have pointed out that it is a goal that students should have an hour of physical activity in school. We've also added SFO and AKS. So over the years, the government has invested especially in real science. We believe it is important in the working life in which the students are going to go, so we have pointed to two subjects where we want to strengthen with an extra hour. It shall not be taken within the hour of the day but an additional week in real time at the intermediate stage. We've also said that English should be compulsory throughout high school – that you don't end up with English after the first grade in high school, go two years without, and then you might have to go to a university or a college where English is one of the important languages.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2623	According to the new government platform, the government is now opening up opportunities for municipalities to try out new models for a more flexible school start. Experiences from, among others: The Oslo school from the beginning of the 2000s under the management of the Right unfortunately showed that such a scheme, where, when the child was six years old, he could start school when he wanted to during the school year, was difficult to deal with for the schools. In addition, researchers warned against low-efficiency learning and much anxiety. Whom does the Minister of Knowledge think is best qualified to assess whether flexible schooling is good for students’ learning and the ability of schools to create a good learning environment – politicians or teachers?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2629	The discussion about flexible school start has been a long time. I myself was one of those who suggested it in 1998, along with Inge Wohnning, who was then central to the Higher Education Policy. I see that these are both advantages and disadvantages. I believe that the most important thing is that the school must be prepared to accept the students, and the students have different maturities, different interests, different backgrounds. Someone asks the question, When is the student mature to go to school? I think it's important that the school is mature to accept the students. But then we also see that there's a big difference between the students. Today it's a very narrow opening, and we've pointed out in the platform that we want to consider opening up to trials and different pilots on this. I know that this is also one of the questions that was discussed in the Stoltenberg Committee. The report comes in the week, so we might get a little different and different professional assessments of this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2636	I don't know if the minister is including me in the constructive part of the opposition, but last spring when we discussed a trust reform at school and I strongly argued for more trust in the teachers, the answer from the Right was that the teachers have freedom of method and a great deal of professional action. However, introducing flexible school start-ups models is a major intervention in how teachers have to work. Does the Minister of Knowledge think that a municipality that introduces flexible schooling despite the teachers' wishes would be contrary to the freedom of method for which he argues so strongly?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2641	The answer to that question is no – because the question of freedom of method is about how individual teachers teach teaching and teaching in an hour, while the question of starting school applies when the student is going to start school. Today, we have to evaluate PPT, and we know that there is a very narrow opening and very few that are exposed to school start-ups. Some boys mature later than girls, and there may be a very big difference between a boy who was born in December, and a girl who was born almost a year before, in January. That's why I think these are the questions we're going to discuss. I see both the advantages and the disadvantages of opening up more flexible school start-ups. But I'm open that we're going to evaluate this, as we've also delineated in the Granavolden platform.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2646	Since there was a line again, I thought, as part of the opposition, that it was constructive to spend time. I want to ask the Minister of Knowledge the question that he really didn't answer at first. I have raised our concern that it is 40 pst. more students in private schools — there has been a growth of 40 pst. – and our concern that it will in the long term weaken Community solutions in public schools. There is a wording in the Government Declaration that provision should be made for schools to be able to provide education of the same quality as the public school. So there have been 8,500 more students in private schools in Norway since 2013. Based on this formulation, has the Right with open eyes accepted lower quality for some of the students just because they have started in private schools?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2655	I do not know if it is because the Workers' Party is empty of ideas that you repeat questions that have already been answered. Of course, the quality of fresh schools is varying as it is in public schools. You can see that when you go into the results. Then you'll see that you'll find very good freshs, you'll find freshs that are in the middle of the tree, and you'll find freshs that aren't so good – just like public and municipal schools. What that point is about is that we've now spent a lot of money in public school to achieve the teaching standards. Last autumn, the Christian People's Party received extra funds so that the schools can also hire more teachers, and we have pointed out in the platform that the capital grant should also be increased. That's what this is all about. Quality must be good both in public schools and in fresh schools. All students will meet qualified, competent teachers and high-quality schools, and we'll look at the results that that's the way it goes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2660	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2665	We have an extended right-hand rule, but the statement is not very new. We've heard a lot before, the new ideas shine with their absence. And after seeing the Gardermoen press conference and much of today's debate, I have to say that the great enthusiasm for the government statement also shines with its absence. This government has a policy to get more private actors involved in welfare. They will ‘make it possible for private operators to compete to provide publicly funded services where it makes sense’, as stated in the Government Platform. It can reinforce the differences, and it allows more of the community's money to go to the profits of commercial players. It is a prescription that is contrary to the best in the Norwegian model, where the public takes responsibility for ensuring everyone a good offer, a good training and a safe kindergarten. In this government statement, there are no clear objectives to stop profits in kindergarten. There are no clear objectives of strengthening the ideal actors in the kindergarten sector, threatened by the purchase of commercial companies, and it amazes me. Few new approaches are also being taken to improve the quality of kindergartens, and there are few new ideas for school. We can do better than that. The working party will be more interested in quality, and the money will go to the children in kindergarten, cheaper kindergartens and school food for all children. Public mixed school is one of the most beautiful construction works in the Norwegian welfare community. It's a school where everyone, regardless of their background, goes together and will have the same opportunity to succeed. Now the high school comes slowly, but surely under pressure. Representatives from the Right and the Advance Party will probably say that we are alarmist when we warn, but we have seen developments in other countries, not least in the form of the bourgeois policy in Sweden, which has made Swedish school results worse from the 1990s until today, but above all more segregated. In recent years, since 2013, the number of students in private schools has increased by almost 40 pst. One of five private schools in Norway has been approved since 2013 under a knowledge minister from the Right. Under this government, every third private school that has been established since 2015 has been started across the wishes of the municipality and county. When the new law was adopted in 2015, against the votes of the Workers' Party, the government said that the municipalities would now have more to say when it came to setting up private alternatives. Now we see that it was only beautiful words – it was a promise that was not made. New schools throughout the country have received approval, despite the local elected representatives warning and saying no: we do not want this! There's a reason the local populace did that, based on their knowledge of their community. That's because every penny that goes to a private school is taken from the municipal budget. It does not magically appear new funds if a private school is started. These are the same means that are being used in primary schools. The greater the proportion of private, the less popular influence over the school structure – the ones people have chosen to rule in their municipality. The more divided the students become by faith, background and status of their parents, the greater the differences we will see afterwards. The working party is not against private alternatives in school. On the contrary, we ran for eight years – or at least seven years – on a private school law that was passed together with the Christian People's Party and guaranteed parents the right to choose educational and religious alternatives. But we are against a trend where an increasing proportion of the pupils and an increasing proportion of the municipal budgets are transferred from public schools to private schools. In a time of a more diverse population, with a more fragmented public debate and the need to call for our common values, the public common school is more important than for a long time. That's where students meet across communities, where the director's daughter learns to know the guardian son, where Christians, Muslims, Hindus and atheists play together, learn together, play football together, where you can learn tolerance and understanding. It is the common school that is diversity — not that we are divided into each school according to abilities, wallet, religion or the background of parents. The development of more and more private schools has seen the consequences in other countries, and that such a policy, in a country with strong Community values in most people, has a majority in this room, is a paradox. For the Workers' Party, it is clear that we should jointly fulfil the most important tasks together and contribute to a more fair society in this way. This is a platform that, in the longer term, weakens the community and the opportunities we have together to give everyone – not just a few – more power and freedom in their own lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2686	About the French power that went back to France after seeking refuge in England during the revolution, it was said that they had forgotten nothing, but that unfortunately they had not learned anything either. I was reminded of this quote after hearing the speeches of our chief opposition politicians today. One has not forgotten the defeat in 2017, but obviously has not learned from it. According to the Workers' Party, the Norwegian people would now be believed to be more or less in a hazy valley in the sixth year. First, almost by mistake and contrary to their real interests, they gave the Stortinget a composition in 2013 that first accepted a minority government consisting of the Right and Advance Party, which the Red-Greens have used strong words from the first day. So the demeanors have first mentioned the Left Party and then the Christian People's Party as they have joined the government. In clear ignorance of how bad things are going in Norway, the Norwegian people repeated their mistakes in the 2017 elections and gave us the composition of the Stortinget that has led us to a majority government consisting of four bourgeois parties. It is up to the opposition to be critical of the government, but it is not obliged to be petty and more concerned with describing the views of others about the unrecognizable, so that one forgets for oneself what alternative visions one has to present to the voters. With all due respect for school food, the deduction of the union quota and the defence of the Ministry of Justice and Defence's interpretation of the law on foetal reduction, the question has to be asked whether this is really the greatest threat facing Norway. Perhaps the Workers' Party should reflect on why they are still losing choices. In times where the democracies around us are in opposition, where old party patterns in our neighboring countries are disintegrating, and where governments are weakened, we can rejoice that Norway is going against the stream. We now have a predictable majority government that also wants to cooperate with the whole Biggest on pooling solutions. It is a great advantage, in order to solve the country's problems, that there can be a basis for decisions that are not immediately popular but are necessary and serve the country in the long term. Of the most important tasks a government can promise, in an uncertain time, is to look after Norway and identify what threatens us as a nation, democracy and welfare society. It is therefore reassuring that the platform attaches such importance to a security, defence and foreign policy facing the new threats and that safety work is not limited to the traditional sectors of defence policy and foreign policy. Cyberrusts, the production of false news by foreign powers to influence public opinion in open societies, terrorism, trafficking, security threats related to unexplained identity for destructive forces that abuse the institution of asylum — all this requires the opposite of naivety. The main task of the State is to ensure the safety and security of its citizens. Defence and security policy must be based on deterrence, deterrence, conflict prevention and security and stability in our neighbourhoods and on efforts to prevent the spread of international terrorism. The platform is an excellent basis for this. The government will develop the defense, so that it is well equipped to safeguard Norway's interests and our sovereignty and to fulfil our NATO obligations. Operational defence, fighting power and endurance in all defenses are given priority. The reference to consensus from the NATO Summit I see as a repeated promise to fully comply with the Wales Declaration. The declaration has a meaning beyond the figures and is an expression of what we are going to do in order to expect solidarity on the day we need it from others. When international institutions that regulate cooperation between countries and enforce laws are weakened, the world becomes a more dangerous place for all countries, but especially for the small countries. They cannot replace lost respect for international law by their own means of power. Our history shows that close economic relations are the safest to prevent conflict and promote peace between countries through a credible alliance policy. Norway’s economy is more than most dependent on exports. Customs-free access to a consumer market of 500 million people, provided by the EEA Agreement, is essential for Norwegian jobs and joint well-being. During the change of lines earlier today, the Workers' Party's group leader, Jonas Gahr Støre, was asked what his government might have given of concessions to the anti-NATO and anti-EEA parties SV and Red and the anti-EEA party Senterpartiet. I noticed that what he referred to was the bulk of the population, but we don't need an Labour Party government to secure us.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2711	This government has led a predictable and fair immigration policy. After the migration wave in 2015, a number of steps have been taken to ensure that there are those who really need protection who get it. The government's objectives are as little as possible groundless applications, rapid processing and rapid integration or return, and the results show that government policy is working. Since the migration wave in 2015, the number of asylum applications has fallen sharply. We have to go back over 20 years in time to figure out as low numbers as in 2018. There has also been a decrease in the number of asylum applications granted. The approvals in the UDI went down by 67 pst. Last year compared to 2017. IN UNE, the number of concessions went down by 40 pst. during the same period. Family immigration for people with a refugee background also fell in 2018, with a reduction of 74 pst. The Granavolden platform continues the restrictive and responsible immigration policy that has been pursued in recent years. I would like to point out some of the points about immigration on the platform. The government will continue the agreed level of number of quota refugees, but believes that the number of quota refugees needs to be seen in conjunction with other immigration and integration challenges. If the number of asylum seekers increases significantly, the number of quota refugees should be reduced. The same applies in the case of any relocalisation of asylum seekers from the EU. It makes it possible to see the different types of immigration related to refugees, in context. Return policy is important. The Government will facilitate several assisted returns, but will also maintain the efforts on the forced return of non-residents without legal residence, work to establish more return agreements and continue efforts to withdraw authorisations once the need for protection has expired. We will use Norway's position as an aid provider to secure more return agreements and increase the acceptance of the principle that all countries are obliged to accept their own citizens. In order to ensure the legitimacy of immigration policy and legislation, it is important to prevent the possibility of abuse. The government will intensify its work on fraud and false documents and strengthen efforts to detect people who have been given residence in Norway on false premises. We also want to use DNA testing to clarify relationships in connection with family reunification. Furthermore, we will strengthen the procedure for converts and evaluate the practice of complaints relating to persecution because of religion. The Government will also intensify the legislation for refugees who travel to their country of origin without prior agreement with the Norwegian authorities and who cannot be sent out on grounds of international legal obligations. The government pursues a predictable policy that does not wave from ditch to ditch, and an ethically soundly justified policy. It is in this that we will continue to pursue a restrictive, responsible and law-enforceable immigration policy within the framework of international commitments. It is essential to ensure the government's overall objective of a sustainable welfare society for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2730	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2735	The situation of victims of crime is serious. Criminals get a penalty discount, people stand in unworthy queues in the courts and in the police, and people lose confidence in the judiciary. Nevertheless, the country’s Minister of Justice today chooses to talk exclusively about immigration. Does the Minister of Justice not take the situation seriously in his own field?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2741	The Minister of Justice and Immigration takes the situation in the police very seriously. The same applies to the situation of the courts. And as the representative knows, I tend to use most of my posts in Stortinget to talk about the police reform. I notice that the Labour Party rarely wants to talk about immigration policy, but let's talk about the police. There has been a historic strengthening of the police during this government. 1,600 more policemen make us have a police force that we've never had before. The reason we've had this initiative is because the world has changed, crime has changed, and the police too have to change. One of the major challenges is a change in the image of crime that captures large resources. In particular, it concerns rape crimes and assaults, which have had an explosive force, an explosive growth, which we need to re-prioritise resources in order to meet.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2750	Governments like to boast of their own efforts at the police. Nevertheless, the implementation of the police reform has reached what we can call slaughter, at the latest in a report from PHS and BI. Ready has shown in his report how hard the government's ABE-cut affects our courts. We also know that in prisons around the country the government's cut policy has sucked out several hundred million dollars, which should also go to enhanced social security and rehabilitation. It is obvious that the Minister of Justice does not listen to the opposition, but does the Minister of Justice take these points more seriously now as the same situation is established in several independent reports?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2757	The police reform was carried out in 2018. We have now come to January 2019. I think it's a little early to pass judgment on something we've been doing in 2018. It is a difficult reform. It's a very comprehensive reform, and in my opinion it might come in the last team. This is something we should have done a long time ago – with great pressure and great power. It's a transition that the police must also make. When the world changes, the public sector, too, needs to change, and the police also need to change. I am willing to understand and understand that the transition is demanding, and that not everyone is equally satisfied all the time. What we've done is that while we've had a transition, we've strengthened all parts of this sector considerably. We're still in the middle of the reform, we've just started it, and I don't want to get any convictions about the reform – whether it's successful or not – but I think it's absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2764	The question was not whether the Council of State wanted to pass a judgment on the reform, but whether he wanted to listen to the feedback that has come. Then I would like to ask about another theme that the Council of State itself has addressed, which is mentioned several times in the statement – violence and abuse. The council itself says that there has been an explosive increase, and that is true. The declaration bears a promise that this will now be taken into account. Nevertheless, I wonder if we can trust these great words, for so far it has just become in large words. Can we trust that the right-wing government and the Council of State will now follow up with both money and concrete action in this serious situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2771	We have had several action plans and escalation plans in this area. It hasn't just been big words. It's been hard cash, there's been money, there's been people, there's been cops, there's been children's houses, and there's been specialists in this area. It continues to increase, because it's a challenge with some of these things. If you have assault cases, especially online, and you do a good job from the police, a good police department, and reveal it, then there are more cases – and more cases. So part of the growth we've had in violence, assault and rape is actually due to the fact that the police prioritise these tasks more and thus reveal what I think has been darkness, which has been there all along, which we haven't been able to reveal, but which we've now been pressured to take.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2776	It is good to hear that the Council of State is seeing developments in the field of violence in close relations. We from the opposition are going to follow this theme further. A point that also captured my interest in the declaration is the clear policy that we should be able to call 'tough on crime'. But in this hard line that the right-wing government wants, it seems that we are going to have a new kind of child and youth prisons, where child protection is going to take over the punishment and responsibility for this. It seems to me like a violent austerity and a change in the purpose of child protection. Shouldn't child protection also solve its tasks, and then, with its competence, its specialists, the youth units can deal with the implementation of punishment? The line from the right government works both tough and hard, but does the Council of State think it's smart, and can the Council of State justify it – because it's not entirely obvious to me?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2783	Youth units, police and courts continue to deal with them between 15 and 18 years of age. We're going to have them on special youth units, and we're trying to avoid the use of prison sentences as much as possible. What the representative is probably thinking about is those who are under 15 years of age, i.e. under the criminal detainee and which the police and the courts are not to deal with. Part of the challenge is that there is also a significant crime going on among them, and there has been a growth in some of those areas. If you have a situation where minors rape other minors, we have an obligation to protect other children from them. It's not about prison, it's not about punishment, it's about child protection having to intensify efforts against a group of minors that the police can't do anything about and that child protection must therefore handle.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2790	Prior to the implementation of the Norwegian police reform, a number of our neighbouring countries had already implemented similar reforms, and in a common chronicle in 2016 the leaders of the Nordic police federations wrote: ‘In Norway, a reform similar to the Swedish one will be implemented at the turn of the year. Probably with the same chaotic consequences and with less proximity as a result. In Denmark, closeness and local patrols have largely been abolished.’ From the government team, the answer was that even if the same steps were to be taken in the Norwegian reform, there would somehow be results different from those obtained in our neighbouring country. Police reform in Norway should not be austerity reform, but today there is a communication on police districts that need to introduce major savings measures and serious issues that accumulate due to capacity problems. Can the Council of State continue to stand firm and say that police reform is not austerity reform, and can he in that case say where the money is going, when they obviously do not reach the police districts?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2800	It is very easy to show and document that the police have increased resources — significantly increased resources, in billions — and it continues in 2018. There have been 400 new annual works in the police in 2018, and there will be even more annual works in 2019. At the same time, there are certain types of crime that are increasing violently, and there is a type of crime that is seizing large resources. When faced with an infringement case involving 400 to 500 insults to be dealt with, it is clear that it is seizing large resources. I think it's good that we prioritise these things and use resources on them, but I also see that it eats resources in relation to some of the other things that the police would like to do more of. However, both the Grand Duchy and the government have wanted to give priority to criminal cases, to the priority of rape cases, and then the police have to give priority to those resources. Despite billions of bets in recent years, I wish you could do more.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2807	It is also very easy to show that police service production has been weakened in many places after the reform. It's just to take a little look in the media and look at all the issues about the many issues that accumulate, and in a long time, also in serious cases. Not only the police are struggling, but the courts are also under pressure of capacity. The length of proceedings is far beyond the legal requirements of many courts, and the courts have expressed surprise at the decline in the number of criminal cases that have entered the courts, and have shown that a substantial part of it is due to the police reform, which has led to a decrease in the production of services in criminal matters among the police. The government has recently laid down six prisons and boasts that the settlement queues are gone. But I wonder if the Council of State can see some correlations between lower service production in the police and in the courts and less need for prison places.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2816	The remains have gone down since the Senter party was in government. The percentage of information has increased since the Central Party was in government. The prison queue has been removed under this government. It is absolutely right that we put down some prisons – low-security prisons – and that is what I think is a completely natural transition that you could have. There can be no point in running empty prisons. Nor can it be meaningful to try to fill prisons by getting more criminals in the country. The important thing is that we use the resources for prevention, so we don't have to have people in prison. This is why prevention is the main strategy here as well. And crime in Norway actually goes down. It grows in some areas – violence and abuse, sexual law offences. They're not going to the low-security prisons. But on the other types of crime, there's a falling trend, as well as using foot-link soning, which makes us have an overcapacity.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2824	When the Council of State speaks, it may sound as if the refugee crisis in the world is over. But that's not true. Europe's borders are closed, and people are now living in refugee camps, including in Europe, in Greece. The number of refugees in the world has increased, but Norway will do less. Norwegian health professionals have been to Greece, and they say they have never seen worse. So there are children who don't get school for many years, not health care, barely a tent or a sleeping bag to handle. In addition, the government believes that 541 asylum seekers who have come to Norway will return to Greece. What is the reason why the government will increase the need in the refugee camps in Greece, and believes that they do not have the capacity to deal with these applications in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2831	There is a basis for a Dublin legislation that this government believes is important to follow. This means that asylum applications are to be processed in the country where they are first registered. It is a general European understanding that this is the way it should be, and I think it is a very great advantage to try to get common European solutions and common European understandings in these areas, so that you cannot have ‘asyl shopping’ from country to country. After all, this government is increasing the number of quota refugees, and the selection of quota refugees takes place mainly in cooperation with the UN High Commissioner. If you think that we should kind of take these refugees from Greece now because someone has been and seen something, I wonder which refugees the representative thinks we should leave behind in the refugee camps – let these sneak in the queue. I believe that we are increasing the rate, and we should focus on the refugee effort we are making through the UN High Commissioner.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2838	I know the Minister of Justice had conversations with the High Commissioner for Refugees yesterday. Then I also know that the High Commissioner has made this situation clear, and that it is the High Commissioner who can pick out who is most in need. For example, you can do this. mention some of the young girls who are now sitting there without protection, who are being subjected to abuse and violence, who become pregnant, some of the young people who are not getting schooling, or some of the others who are ill, and who absolutely need to get into better conditions. Norway is even using EEA funds for these camps, but I am not sure that the Minister of Justice or the Government is in control of the use of that money so that there are valid conditions in these camps. My question is again, I want to repeat it: why will the government increase the need in Greece? There is nothing in the Dublin Code that forces us to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2843	We don't want to increase distress in Greece. That is why we are providing substantial support, financial support, to Greece. We've given it over the last few years, through EEA funds, and we're going to continue to do that. It's about helping the refugees in their neighbourhood, which is a well-known and quite well-accepted principle. We are also going to accept quota refugees in Norway, and then there are many stories about refugees who have been living longer in the camp, all over the world, and who have to be picked out. Then we pick them out based on recommendations from the United Nations and based on the recommendations that we use when selecting. We're going to pick out 3,000 quota refugees in 2019. There are quota refugees who are mainly quota refugees who have been waiting for a long time and who are in camps that you would like to abolish, but we cannot accept them all.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2850	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2855	The city of Hebron on the West Bank is home to 220 000 Palestinians. In the center of Hebron, 500 Israelite settlers have settled down. In 1997, an Israeli settler killed 29 Muslims in the mosque in Hebron. Since then, a Norwegian-led international observer force, commissioned by Israeli and Palestinian authorities, has been working to improve city conditions. For 20 years, the civil observers have been following rescued schoolchildren to school, stopping fighting, and preventing conflict. It may be an end now, for Netanyahu's ultimate right-wing government will throw out the Hebron observers as early as tomorrow, 31 January, the same observers who unfortunately had to find out in December that Israeli authorities are committing systematic attacks on the Palestinians in Hebron. At the same time, we have received a government platform at home where Israel as the only country is given a special status. In the Workers' Party, we are for cooperation, we are for trade with Israel, we are opponents of boikot, but it is an unusually poor time for a Norwegian government to promote uncritical favorization on, by an Israel at a completely wrong course, where irreconcilable forces on the outer right wing are gaining more and more power. The government of Israel is acting increasingly uncompromisingly, even to some of the weakest, as the schoolchildren in Hebron. Unfortunately, the two-state solution is still weaker. Then it is a serious error to embrace a government that is in breach of the Oslo agreement. Therefore, if this government does not have the power to take a clear stand against the notified draft of the Hebron observers, it in my opinion makes little sense to talk about a balanced Middle East policy. The security policy situation in our neighbourhoods has changed since 2014. With increased tension, we need to take greater responsibility for our own safety. Then it is not very reassuring to hear that the Prime Minister in the statement yesterday spoke misleadingly about Norway's defence and commitments to our NATO allies. For the Prime Minister, the right-wing government claimed that the defence expenditure would move ‘additional towards the 2-percentile’. It's a direct mistake: this government is not moving defence expenditure further in the direction of 2 pst. This government is moving counter-clockwise from the 2 percent target, because from 2018 to 2019 the GDP share is falling to the Defence. The Workers' Party will give priority to our common defence, we put money to bet on army, on Norwegian soldiers, helicopters and modern equipment. Women's right to abortion is used as a piece in a game of political power. Where is it going to stop? That question asked an international health website about the abortion debate in Norway before Christmas, a recognised health website. So the Prime Minister's invitation to change the abortion law is an international one. I fear that this right-wing government has weakened Norway's credibility as a country of equality. I am in favour of a debate on genetic engineering and ethical issues, but abortion must never be used in a power game! We agree to make some restrictions on the abortion law, said earlier today, the President of the Progressive Party. Those are pure words for the money. The working party says no to any retreat for women's right to decide over their own bodies. Nils T. Bjørke took over the president's office here.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2874	The luxury days for us politicians are when we can stand and distribute funds for a fine purpose and visible actions – cultural resources, food subsidies or transfers to non-governmental organisations – or cut the cord on a bridge or a new tunnel. The days that are rarely valued are the days when we give money to measures that really don't have any marks, which few in Norway know anything about, which nobody really misses so much in their everyday life, but which are measures that we all need, namely measures to secure Norway. They like to hide behind dry titles in the budget headings – ICT security, security measures, the Police Directorate and its agencies, digital infrastructure, the Directorate of Social Security and Preparedness, investments by the Defence Logistics Organisation, police construction, civil clearance authority, emergency and emergency communication – you name it! There may be one million, and there may be one billion, but the common denominator is that this is money usage that goes under the radar of all, most of them in Norway. A note that the government spends half a billion on ICT security will slide very quickly down the front page of the vg.no. Luckily, we have it like this. Fortunately, the Nordics are not stuck to the radio and listen attentively to hear if the government grants more money for security measures. It's because we can almost feel safe in Norway. We have a government that ensures security, and that's the most important thing it can do for its inhabitants. Our security got quite a solid strain after the terrorist attack on the Workers' Party and on our country. Sleeping without the sense of security, looking over the shoulder, fearing the future and suspecting others – that feeling is toxic to a society if it gets permission to sit down. Behind the dry budget lines I mentioned instead, there has therefore been a consciously bourgeois policy. Since 2013, the government of Erna Solberg has consistently built up the police, consistently built up the defence and consistently built up the safety authority in Norway. Our goal is clear: we're going to pass the exam if something happens again. Investing in security may not bring short-term political benefits, but it is one of the most important long-term investments we can make. Gradually, the dry, grey budget lines will turn into flowers and end up in genuine security measures for the inhabitants of Norway. ICT security funds become cybercentres, POD funds and underlying agencies will be hundreds of new police officers, new police cars, new police helicopters. Police construction funds become one of the world's best and most modern emergency centres, and funds for investment in the Defence Logistics Organisation become air protection, new units in the north, submarines, fighters, helicopters, tanks and soldiers who go out to keep us safe. This list could continue. Fortunately, the justice part of the new government platform does not contain any new dramatic points. We're gonna be happy for that. Fortunately, justice is a stable and quite conservative policy area, yet it addresses some of the specific challenges that have arisen in recent years. First of all, we're going to have to get back to life, and young gang criminals are going to be handled with clarity, and that's not to hurt, but it's to help. Secondly, the police are in a difficult reform, and we must admit that we are going through the valley of shadows in terms of police reform, before the results really show up. And when we go through a valley like this, it's a good idea to go on. Where other parties waver with some resistance, the platform is very clear that the police reform will be completed, it will be effective, and in a few years no one will want to go back to the police they had before. Thirdly, we need to tackle criminal proceedings. We've seen that some cases accumulate in the judiciary because crime becomes more complex. Crime is not just about taking speed controls and patrols in the streets; it's also about organized crime, difficult rape cases and horrific crimes against children online. The platform is also well aware that police and prosecution authorities will be able to deal with that type of crime. Finally, I would like to say that we politicians are happy with measurements, especially when they go well. And measurements go up and down, but one measurement is very clear, and it's the one that shows that the government has high confidence when it comes to creating security for people in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2891	The extended right-hand government promises both increased expenditure and lower revenues, at the same time, and then they talk about sustainable welfare. It's not related. A right-wing government that has used Norway's record of oil money, and in the new government statement they say that they will continue to lower revenues, while increasing expenditure. It's a calculation that doesn't go up, and I understand that, when the Right's fiscal figureman a few days ago said that you hadn't taken the trouble of calculating the cost of the platform, you also knew when it could be implemented. This isn't related. Many proposals in the government statement cost a lot of money. Child protection for the smallest will cost billions, the near-police reform will be fulfilled, the criminal service will be strengthened, the commitments towards NATO will be stepped up, the aid budget will be 1 pst. of gross national income each year. All these are expenditure increases in the billion-dollar class, which are to be combined with cuts in taxes and levies. Then there will be improperly less revenue in the state fund. And where will the money come from? That's not good to say. What do the conflicting sentences in the platform actually mean? Environmental taxes are to be increased – or are they not? The rule of action must be maintained – but at the same time possibly scrapped. Examining how to circumvent the rule of action is a bad sign. The self-declared governing party that Right believes to be must resort to creative bookkeeping to make the budget go up – a smart solution, as Henrik Asheim called it. Where there is no trace of revenue that can cover costs, the government must have other plans. Will there be cuts in public services, or will there be higher trades? And despite the fact that a new party has come into the government, there's really little new in the platform. The government's taking most of it from the Jeleya platform. But there is one exception – which is new. It says that the right-wing government will work so that ‘multiple private service providers can contribute more to the task of the community’. And here there are no limits set. What's next to be solved by private service providers? This shows in which direction the government will take us. More privatisation means that we get a two-part healthcare service, where those who can afford can buy extra services. The public health service, which is available to everyone, may be confusing. In other countries where privatisation has been freed up, it has led to increased self-esteem. We don't want to get into a situation where it's the wallet to decide how good services you get. Another thing that's not new is that the differences between people are increasing, and the right-hand government is not doing anything about it. This is the great challenge of our time. Whole communities turn their heads when people feel neglected. The result may be a situation where people are troubled. The result is that the economy is growing less and, at worst, shrinking. Trade agreements are being scrapped, and chaos heresies in the United Kingdom. People become reluctant to political solutions, and government governance becomes difficult. This is serious. But it's still surprising, I think, that the right-wing government doesn't say anything about this issue in the government statement. For us in the Workers' Party, preventing a development towards a two-part society will be the most important, preventing increased differences. With our budget, people with low incomes, under 750,000 dollars, would have more to go with, and it would be necessary, for the expenses of kindergartens, for tolls and for electricity costs to increase. More to those who need it, means more in taxes to those who tolerate it. The government lowers the taxes for those with high incomes and wealth. The 1,000 richest have received 1.3 million. kr in tax bills, while the last tax exercise of the government is taxing free cards to bus drivers and festival passes to the labourers. This does not contribute to sustainable budgets in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2906	A sustainable welfare society is created from below, by the company owner of the local corner stone enterprise, by trade union workers, by volunteering and by the family. It's not always that the representatives are sitting on the Stortinget, who know best what is right to do in the municipalities or for people. That's why it's an important project that we have to move more power away from this hall and out where people live. Our job is to enable small and large communities to manage their own lives and shape the future for themselves and theirs, precisely when people and communities are given confidence, they will also take responsibility, whether for the benefit of the family, for their own good or for the benefit of the community. Therefore, this government will have fewer objections to the plans of the municipalities, we will continue to listen to local democracy. Several tasks have to be moved to the municipalities and to the counties, and most people have to gain more power. Norway is doing well, but we have some major challenges. The space for action in the economy will be smaller. Oil and gas revenues are going to fall, and while it is positive that people live longer, it will also be a challenge for our welfare services. That is why we need to facilitate the creation of new jobs, which contribute to the state budget. Then we must continue the massive development of infrastructure, people and businesses must be allowed to keep a little more of their own money, it must be researched and developed more, and it must be easier to be a founder – to mention something. This is good industrial policy, and good industrial policy is good rural policy. With this statement, we are retaining a living District Norway, because today it is going well throughout the country. Unemployment has not been lower in more than 10 years, and it is particularly low in the districts. Both agriculture and the aquaculture industry are doing well. The poorness and blackness of the districts with which the left side comes still does not match reality. SV, the Center Party and the Workers' Party, together with MDG and Red, are not exactly an alliance for value creation. On the contrary, it is rather an alliance for reversal, and it will not create viable cities and towns. The reversing alliance for which the parties stand, thanks to the population no to twice, and I am also pleased that this government statement puts an end to the reversal. Digitalisation is not an end in itself; it is a means of a more efficient and user-oriented public sector that provides a simpler everyday life for citizens, for business and for employees. The digitalisation of the public sector has already come a long way, but we have a much greater potential. It also bears the mark of this government platform. If we, for example, If we are able to complete the construction processes, we can release several billion kroner, both for the municipalities and for the construction industry. Local authorities need a larger and stronger professional environment to make more use of new technologies, but we need, for example, to build a new and wider professional environment. continue the success of the municipal co-financing scheme. This makes it possible to realize profitable small and large digitisation projects, and in two years we have spent about 330 million. kr on the scheme. But the projects that have received money can release over 7 billion. DKK over 10 years. It shows us that if we dare to think new, apply new technology, we can get more back for less. This debate confirms once again that the opposition has no new ideas to address the major challenges facing Norway in the years ahead. After almost six years of opposition, it's still the same black paint, which doesn't really have a root in terms of how it really stands. The solution to the problems is still equally imaginative. There is either an increase in taxes or more regulation, and the consequence of the policy is still a standstill and long-term confusion. That policy does not give us a sustainable welfare society. If we are to succeed in doing so, we need modernisation, digitisation and more freedom and responsibility for the individual, for the family and for the community. We ensure that through this platform.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2921	On 17 January it became clear that the four bourgeois parties agreed to form a government. But it's good to remember that it happened with as little connection as possible – not just once, but twice on the way to this government. What hit me the first day was that the government seemed tired. Where was the mood, where were the smiles, where was the enthusiasm? It seemed like it was completely gone. I was a little excited. I was curious what the entry of the Christian People's Party would actually mean in terms of values I think are important in society. Should we have a policy where we took more responsibility for each other, built a stronger community and greater equivalency? Unfortunately, the answer when we read the government statement is no. But that is what we should have been dealing with today. We should have dealt with a government statement where the political foundation and pressure were actually used to reduce differences, where it could have made it easier for those who are having difficulty, how many could have had the opportunity to succeed. We could have dealt with a government statement where we got a society with more tolerance and greater ability to include. But it is not such a government statement we have received. Right-wing policy does not build a warmer society. Right-wing policy does not lead to a more sparse and inclusive society. No, right-wing policy is not a foundation for more inclusion and diversity. Right-wing policies create greater differences and greater distances and less understanding between and among people. Another important issue today regarding the government statement is whether this statement provides a greater political basis for creating values and exploiting the amazing opportunities we have, and how to ensure that more people come into work. I can't find any good answers that support that one will use the opportunity to a greater extent. But today we can read in the Class struggle that the Minister of Industry has made eight thesis on Norwegian industrial policy – yes, actually eight of course on industrial policy. He says that the authorities should dry up to prioritize the industry over other industries. But do we see any of that in the government statement? No, we don't. We see nothing to the effect that industrial policy is given priority over anything else in the government statement. At least I can't see what it is that expresses it. There will be no more industrial production of eight thesis by the Minister of Industry. The fact that Norway is an industrialised country is a matter of course. Industry has been, is and will remain an important part of Norwegian value creation. But you have to choose to bet on the industry in the future. In the time we now have behind us, in the last five years of recession, we should have used the opportunity to change and to strengthen our industrial effort towards a low-carbon society. But is that what happened? No, that hasn't happened. Yesterday, Norwegian Industry came with its economic report. Fortunately, it shows growth. But it underlines that that growth is fragile – very fragile, and very uncertain. We had the opportunity that the growth that lies in that cyclical report had given even more optimism and was even more powerful, and not least: the opportunities we had, and have, should have been used to a greater extent. There should already have been a fundamental clarification about carbon capture for the projects in Norcem in Brevik and Klemetsrud in Oslo. Hydropower should have been a significant and lasting advantage for Norwegian industry. We should have had more risk capital available, in flexible schemes that helped to realise the opportunities. There has been a lot of talk about the investment in the professions today, and that is good. But it should have been even more focused on the professions, precisely to underpin the future prospects of industry. Much more should have been done to develop industrial production on the fantastic resources, such as: forest yields – biofuels are one example. The same should have been done absolutely for our fishing resources. There is nothing new in the government statement that suggests that more opportunities should be used in the future. What is underlined in this government statement is that it now facilitates a large-scale privatisation of public welfare production such as care for the elderly, school and health. I think it's worrying. We see, and I think we're going to very clearly confirm it as we approach 2021, that the right-wing policy to be pursued over the next few years will lead to differences continuing to increase. Individualisation is strengthened and the community is reduced. The lack and solidarity will fade, and the many possibilities will remain untapped. I think it's a shame, and we're moving towards new lost years.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2944	We live in a fantastic, long-distance country where the value creation takes place from north to south, along the coast and inland. And that's the value creation that lays the basis for our well-being. It's the oil, it's the fish, it's the travel and industry that makes sure we have good schools, a world-class health care system and a safety net that catches us up when we need it. As Minister of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, I am concerned with living communities and growth throughout the country, and I am therefore very pleased that things are going so well in District Norway. And it's important that we talk well about the districts, because no one is moving to a place that is being talked down with terms like decline, emigration and pessimism. The government conducts a regional policy that works: it builds up the road and lane that never before, we get better results in school through early efforts, we put on research and development, and we give tax incentives to Norwegian companies that will create new jobs. We now see that unemployment is record low, and business flourishes. Norwegian Industry presented yesterday a report saying that the industry will have a growth of 6-8 pst. this year. That's very good. And when it builds up road and track like never before, cities and buildings are connected, distances mean less, and we know that good infrastructure is an important framework for our business. Even though it's going well now, it's not obvious that it keeps going. In the Granavolden platform, we lay the basis for precisely the growth required in the districts. The first challenge is the most important: creating a sustainable welfare society requires us to succeed in transforming the Norwegian economy into a new era. We also need to create growth and more jobs, and we need to build infrastructure across the country. And last but not least: we must promote the green shift and ensure that Norway has more legs to wear in the future. When I travel around the country, almost everyone says that their main need is to get people with the right skills. Imagine a young, newly-trained child protection educator. Is there anyone who thinks that the dream after the studies is to work in a municipality as the only employee in child protection, without colleagues you can share experiences and concerns with, where you can't be sick a single day because you make up the whole establishment? In fact, when three municipalities with two employees each join forces in the protection of children, there will be an environment of six. It's much better than two. And it becomes more attractive to work there, because more wise heads can work together. And the most important thing is that it means better services for our residents. In addition to the challenge of getting the right skills, Kommune-Norge faces another challenge in the next decades: the population is getting older, while the proportion of young people in working life will fall anywhere other than in the largest cities. Today there are more than 2.5 employees behind each pensioner in most municipalities, but by 2030 around half of the municipalities will have less than 2 employees per pensioner. It goes without saying that financing pensions and well-being becomes economically demanding, and it becomes more demanding for small municipalities to be able to provide good services to their citizens. Many will have difficulty attracting skilled labour. It cannot only be solved through increased municipal frames. We're not doing reforms for fun. We believe that reforms are absolutely necessary to equip ourselves for the years to come. The government thinks we have to create before we can share, and we're going to facilitate more job creation across the country. We need more people who create both their own and those of others who contribute tax revenue. In this way, society needs to facilitate good framework conditions and a tax system that stimulates jobs and Norwegian private ownership. Norwegian business is mainly made up of small and medium-sized enterprises, and the government will therefore ensure framework conditions for these enterprises. The new government platform is ambitious – it is about facilitating safe and sustainable communities throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2973	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2978	The Government's statement clearly states that it is necessary to facilitate more privatisation of the provision of care in the municipalities. We know that it is often the pay and pension conditions of employees that come under pressure when it comes to competition and that those affected often have professions where wages and pensions are basically low. More use of competition and privatisation leads to greater differences between people. In Oslo, we see that a newly-trained health worker in a municipal hospital has a minimum wage of SEK 84 000 more than a newly-trained health professional in a commercial hospital. How does the right-wing government and the Right-wing Council explain the reason for this?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2985	It is up to each municipality to organise their services as they think they get the best services. It's not a state rule. It shouldn't be like that either. I am sure that many Workers' Party-led municipalities are now recommunerating their services, but it is part of municipal autonomy. It's up to the local government to decide. I'm for freedom of choice. I don't think it should be that because you pass 60 or 70 years, you have to take your freedom of choice. I think – and I know from my time in the municipality – that competition is intensifying. It sharpens the public service, and it sharpens the private service. So I want to make sure that municipalities can choose, but it is up to the municipalities to decide how they will organise their services.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2992	The working party cheers on Oslo, which will phase out the commercial and bet on the community and the ideals. It means freedom of choice for everyone, regardless of the size of the wallet, and it's good for the employees. It means better quality of care for the citizens of our city. When we also see that the return of our welfare services is in private hands, preferably in tax havens, no one should be surprised that the willingness to pay taxes to finance these services is diminishing. Why will the government have more market and more privatisation of public services, when the consequences are that it affects our community?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e2999	It's quite possible to cheer up their party traps in Oslo. I'm not doing that. In Oslo, the elderly are deprived of freedom of choice. In Oslo, good deals are put down because you're so busy with ideology. In Oslo, you are not interested in knowing which services are best, what works best – you don't want competition. I believe it provides a worse service offer. I myself know from my own experience when we were going to put out practical help at home, that the first thing we had to sharpen was the public service. It got better, people knew when you came, if you came, and sick leave went down. The experience with outsourcing is very good. It gives freedom of choice, and I want to facilitate it, if the municipalities want it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e3008	I knew that for the right-wing government, Oslo is not an exhibition window. Right wants Swedish states. This means – as in Stockholm – privatisation, shopping of care services, marketing and a huge bureaucracy. The Minister for Health has stated that there is no role to play in Norwegian welfare money in foreign ports. A new large group now controls 25 pst. of private care in Norway. In Sweden, they've taken out 2 billion. kr in profit from the community and paid cheaply NOK 22000 in tax. Community money ends up in tax havens in Luxembourg. Does the State Council of Malta feel that it is unproblematic that money that should have been used for welfare in Norwegian municipalities ends up in tax havens?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e3015	No, of course not. I don't like anyone putting their money in a tax haven. But it's a horror picture created by parts of the service sector that I think is absolutely incredible. We are told that industry has to make money, that business has to make money. It is allowed to make money on building a hospital, but it is not allowed to make money on providing services in hospitals. The parts of the service sector where women dominate, where women can be given more female leaders, women owners, talk to each other. So it's a good thing to make money to take care of our children, but it's a good thing to make money to build the kindergarten for our children. I don't understand that distinction. It's to have ideological skyscrapers, which I totally disagree with. I glory in so many people in this society who do a great job, both by running kindergartens and by providing care services. I think a nurse can do her own business as well as a doctor.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e3024	The platform says about the relocation of state jobs that the government will locate new public competences jobs across the country and that it will also take place outside the big cities. The last is new tones that the Center Party is pleased with. Today, we have proposed that half of the State jobs should be added to small and medium-sized municipalities. We've had a lot of success stories with that in the past. I can mention Leikanger with Divi, Nav and the Tax Information etc., the Brønnøsund registers etc. Digitalisation now reduces the importance of geographical work. We now have the opportunity to redeploy significant areas of competence, regardless of geography. Will the government make use of this possibility to provide for a significant relocation of State jobs from Oslo, and is it willing to provide for a redistribution that will also give small and medium-sized municipalities a significant share of those jobs, so that there will not only be redistribution between the largest cities?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e3033	I am very pleased with the job that the government has done over the last five years, where we have moved out almost 900 jobs. So the speech of the numbers when it comes to wanting to establish state jobs outside Oslo, must be more than proof. It's like seven out of ten employees in the state are employed outside Oslo, so that's where this government does the last thing it can't do. Then we say on the platform that we're going to do a bigger job of looking at sectors across, because what we've seen is that every business and every sector thinks separately, but together for the country it's going to be unfortunate. So the answer is, yes, we're going to have a policy to look at sectors across, so that we also see that places outside the big cities can obviously attract state businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e3040	SV is very concerned about the security of the house and home, also for those who have difficulties. That's why we want a big rise in housing, because it's fallen like a rock under this government, and we want a big discount on property taxes, so that people with ordinary dwellings and small incomes don't get hit by it, and we get away with it socially. But I notice that it is the government against. The government platform even states that the housing support is now to be targeted. I wonder who it is that will get it, because now the average income per household that receives housing is NOK 134 000. Then my question is: why is the home of those with poor advice less important for this government than the home of those who can afford to buy both one, two and three cabin palaces and one, two and three houses, which get tax relief for the wealth they have?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e3047	I necessarily disagree with the premise for the question. It is not that the housing stand has fallen like a stone. It is such that the housing will meet those who need it the most. That's what it's doing now. And I'm very pleased that more families of children than ever get housing support. We're strengthening the housing support in the current year by 60 million. kr, in order to increase housing support for families with multiple children. It's important to meet families with low income, because living is important. We know that having a safe home is important to being at work, for a safe school etc. So we fully agree that the housing support is important, but we want to align it to those who need it the most, not lubricating it thinly to everyone, because that's not necessary. Most live, most have money to live, and most own their own home.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e3053	One of the major discussions in this room, of which the Council of State has been a part, has been how we should ensure that citizens receive good and equivalent services throughout the country. It's a goal that both the government and all the parties in this room share, but there's an unusual disagreement about how to achieve these goals. What is interesting is that in the platform on which the government is building its work, it is said that ‘an income system that provides citizens with good, equivalent services throughout the country’. At the same time, we experience a government that is adding up to changes in the income system, which weakens the ability to print local incomes for local politicians, and we also see that there is a government that says that a greater effort should be made to ensure that the local economy covers precisely the core tasks of Norwegian municipalities. The question then arises: How does the Council of State think it is necessary to achieve the provision of equivalent services and not penalise municipalities financially and thus impose community mergers?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e3060	The results of the municipalities in recent years speak for themselves. The municipalities have very good results. It's due to three factors: it's due to good tax revenue, it's due to good municipal settlement, and it's due to politicians who are good at housekeeping. That's good. Then we have an income system that should be as neutral as possible, but we also have a system that takes on the fact that some municipalities are small, that there are district municipalities with special disadvantages, and it's incorporated into the income system. Then it's not like those who have the highest taxes have the best services. It would have been very easy then. If it was that the highest property tax gave the best school and the best care for the elderly, this was very easy. It's not like that. Nor is it the case that the municipalities with the highest tax revenues are the most efficient and the most innovative. So that's good space, and we also know that the effectiveness of the local economy has fallen. Municipalities have become less effective than they were, in the main categories, which are health, school and care for the elderly. The municipalities can do something about that, and we'll invite you to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e3069	It is interesting to note that the Council of State first boasts that local politicians who have been good at housekeeping and that they have had extraordinary tax revenues, before the next round chooses to attack the ability of local politicians to obtain good accounts, i.e. to use, among other things. taxes on property in order to develop and provide good services to its inhabitants where the government fails to provide an income system that facilitates the provision of good services. Security in everyday life is a central part of the state of Norway, and I noticed that the Council of State said to secure communities throughout the country. But it is contrary to what the Prime Minister said in the government statement yesterday, namely that it was only in the centre that it should be safe to travel for everyone. The question then arises: how should an income system be set up to ensure the security of services throughout the municipality, throughout the country, and not just to ensure that services are provided in central parts of the municipality?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e3078	There is reason to pay tribute to the many local government representatives who work with local government, working with budgets. Housekeepers are important, and we know that many people have put money on book and have buffers. There is no contradiction between the fact that the Centres for Economic Research say that efficiency has fallen. The fact that you get less tax revenue allows you to invite more efficient municipalities, more innovative municipalities, because, as I say, it's not that those with the highest incomes are the ones that provide the best services. There is no evidence available. Then I don't think the prime minister has said it's just in the center of the cities you're supposed to be safe. On the contrary, of course, it's a goal that you're safe across the country, and we're making that right. So where that statement comes from, I don't know.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e3085	I had an interpellation with the Council of State on 27 November last year, asking if she saw that the liberalisation that had taken place in the field of development through the intervention of the opposition institute led to more degradation of nature and cultivated land. I did not get a clear answer, but she relied on local decisions in the municipalities. Now it turns out that the National Audit Office is questioning the practice. A report of 15 January this year stated that there is a risk that consideration for soil protection, natural diversity, coastal zone and others will not be adequately addressed. Does the Council of State think that such a warning is serious, and if yes – what will she do to satisfy the Riksrevision in this matter and perhaps reassure me and the others who are concerned with the degradation of Norwegian nature?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e3094	I believe I gave the representative a very clear reply on 27 November. I said that several objections did not provide more protection. I said that several objections did not give better policy, and that it is a misguided policy that the number of objections is coordinated, that they are clear, and that they are concrete, and that the statesmen do the job of being concrete and caring for national interests. That's not the situation. It also means that I disagree with the Riksrevision report. This is misguided policy by the government. It's the municipalities that are spatial authorities. We're going to intervene when national considerations call for it, not when it suits us, and when we want to override.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e3101	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e3106	Right-leader Erna Solberg travelled around the country in the election campaign in 2013 and talked about how to convert Norway, how to make Norway less oil dependent. We heard the same thing in the government statement yesterday, and we see in the government platform's first point that we are committed to transforming the Norwegian economy. There are a lot of words about conversion, green shifts, and we're going to get away from the oil addiction. Then it's interesting to look at the fasit after five and a half years with Erna Solberg. Have we become more or less oil dependent in Norway? Has the trade deficit increased from mainland Norway, or has it become smaller? In fact, as Erna Solberg certainly knows, Norway as a country has become more oil dependent in recent years — not less oil dependent. The trade deficit from mainland Norway was $157 billion. kr in 2014, and in 2018 it was expected to be SEK 258 billion. kr. So, the trade balance has deteriorated by 100 billion. kr. We've become more oil dependent even after the oil crisis that hit the Norwegian economy a few years ago. It is also interesting to look at the investments in the Norwegian economy. Investments in the oil and gas sector last year amounted to less than 150 billion. kr. In the mainland industry, it was above 20 billion. kr. Look at those figures — the mainland industry at the top of 20 billion. kr, the oil and gas industries approx. 150 B.C.E. kr. Expected growth in the oil and gas industry this year is around 20 to 30 billion. kr – more than the total investment in the Norwegian mainland industry last year. So the talk about conversion, the talk about being less oil dependent, is party speech and does not apply to real facts. That's where I think the government once and for all underestimates some of the most important driving forces that have saved the Norwegian economy in recent years. Firstly, it is important that we have a living and good oil and gas industry. The Norwegian economy has also been rescued by a good crown price, which means that the industry has come through the last few years. But where did the big money go? When oil and gas investments went down on a Norwegian base, they went from oil and gas to housing. Housing investments increased from around 150 B.C.E. DKK to 200 billion kr. So if there's been a conversion of the Norwegian economy under Erna Solberg, it's been that we've built more dwellings, and we can't live in Norway as a country with greater investment in property and live in wealth. This is the fasitite after five and a half years with Erna Solberg. Oil and gas investments fell — they are on the way up again — and the investments that increased were not investment in industry. It was an investment in housing. The investment in industry is now lower than 10–11 years ago, when it was around 30 billion. kr. The facts are the basis for this debate. It is amazing that the government is not more concerned about what we see in the Norwegian power industry. We see a very high power price, which affects the industry vigorously. In this debate, the government should be much more concerned about what happens if you are to build a new foreign table to, NorthConnect. For the industry in Rana, as I was visiting before Christmas, they said that that cable could affect their price of energy of about 30 million. kr – only for the Mo i Rana industry. That is why, in the Central Party, we have made a proposal today asking the government to stop the expansion of the NorthConnect cable because we believe that the Norwegian energy price is high enough for the industry we have around the country. It has been a competitive advantage for our industry that we have had low power prices. The second problem we now see with the high power price is that it affects Norwegian households with full power. It does not seem that the government is concerned about it at all, because in addition to having a high power price, the government has increased the fees for Norwegian households by 36 pst. when they are going to buy electricity. We think it's fundamentally unfair. On the other hand, when the government has given priority to providing some large tax cuts, a priority has been given to providing tax increases for the many. The tax increase under Erna Solberg was $6.6 billion. During her first five years as Prime Minister. People notice it on the energy price now. They're going to get higher power bills than they've ever had before. Summary: The Norwegian economy has not undergone a conversion. The Norwegian economy has become more oil dependent – not less oil dependent. Tax policy has hit those who have the least, and the charges for people most have increased. Therefore, the government needs a clear opposition that brings about the weaknesses of today's government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e3123	Let me begin by saying that after five and a half years of non-socialist majority, after hearing the speeches from the opposition, things are going well in the country. So let me start by reminding you of some facts in relation to the claims we've heard during this debate. Unemployment is record low. In August, Nav reported that it was ten years since all the counties had a 3pst leave. or lower. The availability is particularly low in the districts, such as Uppland, Troms and Sogn and Fjordane. Employment is increasing. Last week, the SSB’s figures showed that 56 000 more Norwegians were employed in the fourth quarter, compared to the previous year. The brother part of the new jobs comes into private business. There was no more bureaucracy either. A new report from Diffi shows that in the state there has become fewer employees in what we call central government, and an increase out there where the services of people are produced, just like the level of ambition of the government was. We're going to have less paper moving and more people doing services. The income differences are stable. In December, the SSB showed that the income differences in 2017 measured with the Gini coefficient were exactly the same as in 2016 and only marginally higher than in 2014. The high figure in 2015, which has marked the debate on inequality for years, is due to temporary changes associated with the tax reform. There is also no significant increase in the number of temporary staff. It has been confirmed both by Fafo, by SSB and by In fact.no. Nevertheless, the story of this continues from Stortinget's pulpit. Nor is it the case that the proportion of trade unions is declining. Fafo’s last report shows that the proportion has remained stable at 49 pst. among employees in the last 10 years. On the employer’s side, the proportion is higher than when this government took over. So overall, we've got a more organized working life. That's good. I could go through many other areas. We have delivered the bet for teachers. The five important measures we said in a teacher's lift have been implemented. We also see results from other bets. Now we see a school where more complete, more apprenticeship places are created, and – fortunately – the latest figures also show less bullying. We know that patients have shorter waiting time for treatment than when the government took over. I felt the need to say some of these things, because I have heard many claims in the debate. One of the claims I heard just before I went to the pulpit was from the representative of Aasland, who wanted to describe – according to the economic report of Norwegian Industry – that it was a growth in Norwegian business, but it was weak, weak, and it was big and difficult prospects. No, what the report says is that growth is 6-8 p.m., that it is broad, that there are shadows because of what is happening abroad, that there are trade policy challenges, but also that we are about to reach an investment level that is not far from the top year 2008, because we had been through a four-year, difficult growth period, driven by the oil industry. I understand that there is a need to have political differences, the need to have political rhetoric, but I think we should build it on facts, and not on claims to draw our own images. I believe that there are many challenges in Norwegian society that we are still going to address. Many of them are taken up by the Granavolden platform. I think we in the crime scene have new challenges that we have to work with – what happens online, the abuses children experience, the challenges we see with more recriminalism. That's why, in the Granavolden platform, we've taken a clear grip and shown the direction: that these are areas we're going to work on more. We need to work more on the challenges – equality can also give more children growing up in poverty, but then we have to base the measures that work best, such as providing childcare services, ensuring that those with the lowest income get free childcare for the children, with free core time, as we have said we will extend to the SFO scheme, and ensure that we have the opportunity to have leisure activities. In practical policy, the Granavolden Platform is full of measures that will help those living today with a strenuous economy [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e3151	The time was up. It's clear for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e3156	I share the Prime Minister's ambition to build on facts. She said that it's been ten years since we've had equal leave. So it was in 2009. Then we got into a heavy financial crisis, and Norway has gradually come through. It took us longer to get employment up than for other countries. There's also another interesting number pair about ten years back in time. Figures from the SSB, and we should trust them, show that the 10 per cent lowest real wages in the private sector have fallen by 10 years, since 2008. So while other wages have gone up very carefully, there has been a decrease for this group. For example, this is a case in point. on cleaning, construction and service workers, and especially non-organised women. Then we have on the other side of the scale those that get big tax cuts, the ones that have the most, the ones that do better. When the representative Tajik took this up with the representative of Greece earlier today, he did not understand the issue. He said that everyone has gotten better, everyone has increased purchasing power. They don't have it. This is an expression that the differences are increasing. Does the Prime Minister see that it is a problem that those with the lowest wages are coming out worse and worse?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e3166	Firstly, I would like to say that in the broad picture of the distribution between those who own and those who work, the figures from the Technical Calculations Committee for Income Statements were quite elucidating last year – the distribution of growth has been roughly the same. Then Bergen's magazine commentator wrote that everything was successful for this government, and that the Workers' Party has no policy left. The Workers' Party can even assess whether they have, but that was the conclusion in terms of the big picture. So I actually agree that there are some challenges. Over time, there has been good income development, but we need to look after those groups that have the most competitive jobs – those that have the least connection to the world of work. That's one of the reasons why we have an inclusion rate to make sure that more people get into a regular job. That's why we have an integration promise to ensure that many of the immigrants in these working groups actually get better ties and have an opportunity to develop. That is why we provide for a reform of skills for those who need to change their knowledge because of the change in working life. These are the areas that we are aiming to secure. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e3173	Time's up. The President will invite both speakers to stay within the speaking time of one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e3178	In the big picture, the Prime Minister talks about everything is perfect and everything succeeds for this government. The point is that inside the big picture there are also very important things that this government doesn't see. I have pointed out several times that 1 million Norwegians do not have a pension from the first crown they earn when they work. These are also the most vulnerable groups, the same ones that we see here. In this large picture, there are also people who have contracts that are unworthy of Norwegian employment. People are affected by temporaryity and exposed. There's no degree of union 50 pst, there's it down to 10 pst, because the government doesn't do anything and takes hold of these relationships. That is why I would like to ask: when it comes to ensuring that we in Norway have a safe and decent working life, which really gives the security on which our welfare state is based, and where we see these alarming signs: what does the Prime Minister intend to do with it? Still, there's no grip on doing anything about organizing. Still, there is no effort to strengthen the role of the parties in the important tripartite cooperation we have. The Prime Minister continues to recognise unorganized work.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e3185	I am very pleased that Jonas Gahr Støre now affirmed that everything succeeds for this government. I'll remember. In many of these areas there are major changes. It's always been. In a changing working life, there will be jobs that get very competitive, there will be competition from outside, and these will gradually disappear out of our working life. This is why the measures I mentioned earlier, including, integration and raising skills, are very important. Then we go to the individuals and help them to improve their skills, so that they can get into other types of jobs and safer jobs. When it comes to the question of pension from the first heads, we've said we're going to figure it out. It is also a question of whether, by decision here in Stortinget, we should overcharge large costs on enterprises that have relatively marginal earnings, which may make jobs actually disappear. We need to know who it is that has to take the load – where costs are distributed when we make such decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e3194	The working party is concerned that technological and medical progress should benefit people, so that they can be cured for diseases and be helped in vulnerable situations. Now there is a stop to the development of the Biotechnology Act, despite the fact that there is a broad majority in the Storting to do a lot of things. One consequence of this is that more people now travel abroad to receive treatment available there and not here, or they buy it privately – egg donation, assisted fertilisation for the lone NIPT test. So we get an extensive biotech tourism. It's only for those who can afford and have the opportunity to do it. Norwegian professionals who ask for tools to help Norwegian women and men, and especially women in a vulnerable situation, do not get it. The biotech tourism that we now see clearly disturbs the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e3201	I believe that policy should not be governed by technology. Our ethical questions are not to be governed by technology. We actually have to make that whole and good judgements. When, for example: concerning the NIPT test, I believe what we have done today is right. The test would be used where other and more hazardous tests would be used on those groups that need to be investigated. You don't generally give it to anyone who doesn't really have a specific need. That's because we think there are ethical limits to what we're going to use and what we're going to look for. I think that must also be important. There are many things you can know by going abroad, which I think the public should not finance, even if it might be fun to know. For example, I can. Retest who I really am in the family with, and where my family and others come from. I don't think it's a public matter to fund or offer it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e3206	So it's not the Prime Minister's concern that we get this tourism, different offers, when responsible Norwegian professionals ask to be able to use technology that can help people. She doesn't worry. Finally, I would like to ask the Prime Minister a question for clarification. Today we have had a debate in the Chamber on taxation of benefits in kind, which is now being implemented, and there are some quite strange consequences of this. The Minister of Finance has stood on the platform today and said that this has been adopted, it is provided, it is implemented, and that is wise. Yes, it is wise that employers now report these relationships, I think we all agree on that. But now we've heard the head of the finance committee talk about this being something that needs to be corrected, that it's chaotic. The Left's representative in the Financial Committee says it is unwise and increases red tape and frustration in everyday life. Both of them want a new review. Then I ask the Prime Minister the question: Is there going to be a new review, or is there no reason to address this?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e3213	The Minister of Finance answered some of these questions in detail in his reply. Let me make one point, which I also heard after the change in line that the Workers' Party's fiscal policy spokesmen repeated, namely that we had introduced new tax rules for volunteers, for example. festivals and other. Those tax rules have been there for 25 years. So every time Jonas Gahr Støre has been a state councillor, he's been in governments that have managed exactly the same tax rules. These are not new tax rules. They have come up in the discussion now, but they have been there for 25 years. The other tax rules, I think, we're going to go through and look at some of the boundaries of these issues, because we're going to listen to the objections that come up about things becoming too bureaucratic. But some things are important. When you are taxed, you also get rights. Part of the groups that have these schemes are low income groups that will now receive pension income from exactly the schemes that they have previously received free of charge. I think we should all be happy that they get that. People with low income can get better pension schemes with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e3220	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e3225	Before Christmas, it was quite clear how those changes in practice could affect some groups. That's why we went against this in the Center Party – that's before Christmas – because we knew that it's unreasonable for the bus driver to get a big tax return because he can take a free ticket on his bus. This trifle and bureaucracy that the government puts up with here, we were fundamentally opposed before Christmas, so we voted against it, and we are also against it now. Another thing about the government that we have reacted very much to is: the government in 2016 said they were tired of low power prices. That was the opinion of the Government in 2016. At least the government has made a change. Because we now have a hugely high electricity price in Norway, which affects Norwegian industry, which affects Norwegian value creation, and which allows us to get a new industrial trip into our coast. Is Prime Minister Erna Solberg satisfied that the government has managed to achieve a higher electricity price? Does Prime Minister Erna Solberg think it is wise to build the NorthConnect cable, which will lead to even higher power prices in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e3232	For the bus driver who was on TV a few days ago and talked about this being part of the salary and not being taxed, I think it is a good idea that all wages are taxed. My father drove a bus, so I know these arrangements. I know that this is of course a pleasant thing to have, but then you don't get it into the pension basis, the maternity leave basis or their daily allowance basis. It's actually a neat part of it to get in. It may not matter at the moment you get it, but it means something at the moment when the changes happen around you and you need those welfare arrangements. So to the question of electricity. I'm not very happy at high power prices. I do not know who should have said that we had too low power prices, in 2016. It's probably taken out of context. We're concerned that we're going to have a power price that people can live with, we're busy producing electricity in Norway, and that we're going to have a well-functioning power market. Last year it was a year of drought. We have almost nothing, it's 0.01 TWh... [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e3240	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e3245	The government has consistently been rather petty towards ordinary workers. For example, those living in a wreckage have been taxed more. Seafarers who previously received a tax-free rent supplement are now taxed on the rent supplement. The commuters who have a long journey have been taxed more. Now the bus drivers are going to be grateful to Prime Minister Erna Solberg for paying taxes for their free card, as it sounds from her side. It's petty. It was Tord Lien, Erna Solberg's oil and energy minister, who said in 2016 he was tired of low electricity prices. He was very clear and said that enough was enough, we had to get values on Norwegian hydropower. So he wanted a higher power price, and that's what's going on right now. If the government says yes to deploying the NorthConnect cable, the power price will go up further, and at least Erna Solberg can take responsibility for it. What does the government think about additional foreignables? Is it wise when we know that Norwegian industry and Norwegian consumers will be hit with even higher electricity prices in the Norwegian market?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e3252	What I tried to say overtime was that in these weeks of this year there has been virtually no export of energy from Norway, so when one in the debate tries to say that it is because of cables and the exchange price is high, it is not. But the price is high, among other things. because it is a CO2 element, and now the allowance price is rising. And it's high because we have high web rentals – and the web rental in Norway is high because we've built up a lot of networks. I remember the red-green government when prices were much higher in Møre and Romesdal and in Trøndelag because we had not developed enough nets. They had their own zone. Now we're all paying because they've built up networks, so the trophies don't pay more than the rest of us. I hope Throne Teams are happy about that. The previous government did a lot of that work. They have to take responsibility for the fact that it appears on the web today, because it has become more expensive to implement large-scale grid expansions in recent years.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e3257	Erna Solberg's Right and Siv Jensen's Advance Party has had one way of withdrawing money from the Norwegian people, and it's by increasing the fees. In the case of current charges, they have increased by 36 pst. Since Erna Solberg became Prime Minister in 2013. So in addition to the fact that there is a high power charge, the current charges are now much higher than they have ever been. It affects Norwegian families who have little advice. It hits households all around the country. It affects that part of the industry that is not defined as a powerful industry and creates poor competitiveness for our business. Does Erna Solberg think it is wise that Norwegian households now have an increased electricity charge at the top of the increased electricity price in the market, and that many Norwegian households and many Norwegian families are thus getting a huge deal in the coming months?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e3264	This falls on its own unreasonableness. Norwegian consumers do not meet increased electricity prices due to increased charges this year. We lowered the electricity charge in the budget. From now on, the electricity charge is lower. Just because we knew it was a dry year, because we knew that there was a risk that we would get higher prices during this winter, we said that we would do a priority in the state budget, then we would return money to Norwegian families, so that the level of fees would not be so high. In sum, with our tax policy, an average family has had about one. NOK 11 000 in tax reliefs. We've given them that, and then they can decide how they spend that money. But this year we saw that power prices could get higher, and then we did a priority in our budget. That was a pretty big amount. We lowered the electricity charge by 1 cent, and in addition we reduced some of the increases that had been made in the sugar charge. So from last year to this year the fees have gone down with this government. It leaves the center part out of all of the operations that they have. They're cutting out the last state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e3271	Here, Prime Minister Erna Solberg is very selective with the facts. The point is that Erna Solberg has increased the electricity charge in Norway by 5 cents, and then she cuts the increase by 1 cent. First she takes a hundred bill from people, then she gives back 20 kroner, and then she says that one should be grateful for giving back 20 kroner of the one she first took. It's profoundly unreasonable. And that increase of 36 pst. Which we're talking about, in the fees for people, is after you gave back $20 of the 100. So the large increase in the electricity charge persists, but a small adjustment was made. Does Erna Solberg think that the adjustment was enough, or should you go further and come back to the red-green level when it comes to electricity charges? For today's government has a sky-high level, and it comes at the top of very high power prices for Norwegian industry, Norwegian business and Norwegian families.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e3278	Now it must be remembered that quite a large part of the Norwegian industry does not pay this electricity charge. Consumers pay it first and foremost. I just point out that the representative, Mr. Schlagsvold Vedum, has now revealed that he has made a selective explanation of history throughout this debate. For he ended with the budget before the year's in all his examples of fees. I don't think it's such a good fact-based thing. We can discuss how high the electricity charge will be, but we have reduced the level because we have seen that Norwegian families were going to get a load. In addition, we have reduced the level of taxation for a Norwegian average family of about 11 000 kroner during these years. Norwegian families have been given greater economic space through the changes we have made. Norwegian pensioners have been given increased financial space through the changes we have made in the tax system. The main emphasis of the tax relief we have given has been brought back to ordinary families and to pensioners, who have thus been given better financial space.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e3285	As we've already been up to it, it's called in our country. What is a serious situation is that people with poor advice also notice the need for extra power consumption to stay warm. Many are now in a situation of concern and uncertainty about how to pay the bills. There are very high prices, and there are huge fluctuations in prices. In 2011, we were in a similar situation. At the time, the red-green government proposed an additional payment for all those who received housing support, of NOK 2 500 per person and a little extra for other household members. It was a very important handshake for people with bad advice. Will the Prime Minister make similar this winter?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e3292	We need to assess the consequences of high power prices over a longer period of time. We haven't done that much, because the power price hasn't been high for a long time yet. It is quite right that in 2011 the Bondevik II government copied it when it had a high power price. But at that point, the actual power price was probably higher than it is today. It's also important to remember. And then the question is how long does it last, when it comes to how this turns out. Of course, we have to look at this, but we were the leader and lowered the electricity charge to ensure that families get a little better economic space this year. It will turn out in the payment for the whole year by that it's a little lower than it would if we hadn't done it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e3301	The difference between that and what we're proposing here is that it's now possible to give a targeted very significant handshake to those who are struggling the most. This should be done by copying what happened in 2011, but it must also be done by hand accounting to a number of other groups. For this government has tightened into the housing stand so that far fewer sheep. Therefore, such a scheme should also apply to a few more groups. I understand the Prime Minister so that she is willing to assess it. In the morning, SV is promoting a proposal for a representative, so that the Stortinge has the opportunity to enter into this assessment properly. The Prime Minister has said today that she wants to invite cooperation across the blocks, and then I would like the Prime Minister's confirmation that this proposal is something that will be seriously assessed. Maybe that's the first thing we'll do together after the government change: get a necessary lift for those who are now struggling with high power bills.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e3308	There are four parties in this Chamber who have total budgetary responsibilities and a budget we have. We're actually going to have four parties together this whole year, so taking individual pieces within a budget with other parties now, I don't think that's natural. But it's an important issue to look at, because we've been concerned about it, and we've done it before, also civil governments: just used the housing support scheme aimed at reaching groups. But then the price level relative to income has been slightly different, and the high prices have been longer than they have so far done. We have to make the assessments when we see what the price picture looks like in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e3314	Then the cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e3321	It is interesting to hear the representative Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum talk about power cables, all the time there was a government council from his own party, Ola Borten Moe, who wrote an agreement in 2011 on several foreign tables, in cooperation with, among others. British authorities. That's what you should be in that context. I want to get into the most important thing in my political function, namely Norwegian patients. I think the patients won the Granavolden. It is alarming that there is another debate in Stortinget, where the most important healthcare providers — i.e. patients — are not taken seriously. In the right we are concerned with patients, and we have introduced the patient's healthcare service. We are pleased that the majority government will continue to work on it. Cows and waiting time shall be reduced and quality and efficiency shall be brought up. The platform underlines important patient rights. We need to further develop the patient's healthcare, we need to take patients into account in all the decisions that concern them. They shall experience transparency and respect in response to healthcare. We'll take the relatives more seriously, and it's announced its own strategy to ensure it. Many relatives today have such a heavy burden that they get sick themselves. We can't have it like that. We want a diversity of healthcare providers. What's right for someone isn't right for everyone. We're not going to have an A4 community, where the inhabitants have to adapt to the system and not the other way around. Therefore, we will strengthen the system of free treatment choices. There is a great success in the care of drug users, and it needs to be improved. Ideal actors, such as: LHL, the Sanitation Association, the Red Cross and the Diaconian Home, are important contributors to creating the patient’s healthcare. They run many large Norwegian hospitals with high quality and good well-being. Often, the ideal actors feel that they are not considered equivalent providers in line with public authorities. The right recognises that the ideal actors are an important part of the welfare society and that they are an important alternative to both the public and the commercial offer. We agree to make demands for more use of non-profit institutions and limit the takeover of services by enterprises from there. User-controlled personal assistant was introduced by the civil parties in 2014. The system is good, but it's not perfect. That's why we're going to have to figure out how to improve it. We also want to introduce user-driven relief options, so that those who need help to get through everyday life get better. Quality and knowledge are a prerequisite for good treatment. To improve health services, we need to look for weaknesses in the system. That is why we are now putting in place stricter quality requirements for both the public, private and non-profit sectors. We are looking for new solutions – the existing one must be challenged. Those who need health care are the objectives of our policies. We both want to make sure that people stay healthy as far as possible, and that they get the best possible help when they need it. We all have different needs and different preferences. Our policy underpins this, as is evident from the consensus reached by the new majority government of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e3338	The country now has a clear right-wing government, with a clear right-wing policy. It means a clearer distinction in Norwegian policy and in this room. The right forces and the capital forces have been agreed. It means a policy of greater differences. It means a policy for smaller communities. It means a tax policy that favors the economic elite. The elite shall be enriched at the expense of ordinary workers and the community. The 1,000 richest will get millions in tax dollars. The bill has to be taken by ordinary workers. The government platform is ready. There will be Swedish states in the municipalities. It means privatisation, privatisation, privatisation. Experience in Sweden shows that quality is falling and costs are rising. This means that the wallet controls whether you get good or bad care and care. This breaks with the Norwegian model – that people should get the best welfare offer, no matter where they live, no matter how much they earn. In Stockholm, cities offer more than 100 different actors in care and care, and it is an enormously large and expensive control system. Well-being is not about shopping or who is the best person to market. Well-being is not about expanding bureaucracy – or is it? For the Right and the Capital Power, this is exactly what this is about. It's about lifting power and capital from the community to the top economic level. It also doesn't matter if the money goes abroad. A new large group now controls 25 pst. of private care in Norway. In Sweden, they've taken out 2 billion. kr in profit from the community and paid cheaply NOK 22000 in tax. Community money ends up in a tax haven. It's these actors' right-wing government right now. The Workers' Party is in favour of the community, those who do not underpay the employees with low wages and pensions, and the Norwegian people's money is in favour of the community and not in accounts in Luxembourg. We honor freedom of choice for all. We honor municipalities like my own, Oslo, who put the employees and the residents in the driver's seat, on those who dare and will take the offer back to the community and bet on the ideals. There is a clearer distinction in Norwegian policy than in the past — a right-wing government that represents capital power and privatisation, against the Labour Party and social democracy, which represents ordinary workers, communities and well-being for all.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e3353	Thursday January 17th was a historic day, when the four parties from the non-socialist side said yes to forming government together. The Granavolden platform is the document the government should manage, and on which the four parties have seen their footprints. As a member of the Transport Committee and busy with transport and infrastructure, I am pleased that this point has been taken care of in the new platform. It was a historically large national transport plan adopted by the Stortinget in June 2017, with investments of more than 1 000 billion. kr over a 12-year period, and I am pleased that the government statement bases the ambitions of the NTP for 2018-2029. Transport and well-developed infrastructure are important for all of us, for industry and for the development of local communities. Through transport measures, we build regions more closely together and provide a basis for growth, economic development and good urban areas. In addition to major expansions and road and rail investments, it is positive that the government sees the need for broadband expansion as an important measure to enable people to live and work in the districts. Technological developments are fast. On Monday this week, Telemarks-benken and Vestfold-benken were invited to IndustrieClusteret on Herøya in Porsgrund, where we were presented to an industry that has an ambition to become the world's first climate-positive industrial region and deliver innovative green technological solutions for the global market – ambitious goals that industrial companies themselves have seen. It makes me happy to see such optimism and trust in future technology as green and emission-free. We see the same thing in the transport sector, where every third-selling new car now is a zero-run car and almost half of all new cars are of climate-friendly cars. Emissions from the transport sector will fall, and it is also clear from the Government Declaration that this is a priority area of government. A lot of roads and paths are built in Norway. Since 2013, the transport budget has increased by 75 pst., and we are building all over the country. The need for reforms within both road and track has, among other things, led to the formation of the company Nye Vegar AS, the company that aims to build roads faster, cheaper and more holistically. So far, most of them will be in that this has been a successful move, and there are still suggestions from many that the company should include several sections in its portfolio. This is followed up in the government statement, which states that the government will increase New Vegar's portfolio in the upcoming NTP, when it applies to both the number of projects and funding, so that the road carrier is given increased responsibility for the development of NTP on the main European roads. With this extended government, I am overestimated that transport development and climate and environment are being viewed in a context of the best for the development of a resilient society.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e3370	Over the past few weeks, I have had the pleasure of visiting several large corner stone companies that will be important for the industrial transition we are going through in order to achieve our climate goals. These include: large wood processing plants in Østfold, Borregaard and Norske Skog Saugbrugs. In particular, the latter has been through a difficult period after extensive conversion, bankruptcy in the parent group, a falling paper market, poor road and rail infrastructure and the fact that the factory is starting 80 million. kr behind its competitors because it does not receive CO 2 compensation. Traditionally, Norwegian power-intensive industries, such as the aluminium industry, the fertiliser industry and the wood industry, have benefited from cheap Norwegian clean hydropower. Today, as has been said before, two new foreign tables are being built for Germany and the United Kingdom under the direction of Statnett. The signal we get from the powerful industry is that this is price driven and weakens the competitiveness of the Norwegian export industry. At the same time, the concession treatment of a new Norwegian private export cable to the rest of the world, the so-called NorthConnect, is ongoing. The builders of NorthConnect estimate that electricity prices will be negatively affected by 0.7 to 1.7 øre per kilowatt-hour. For Saugbruks, who already starts 80 million. kr behind its competitors, it represents another 10 million. kr straight into the bottom line. So we're about to break the industry that's going to be the future of the green shift, and that before we've really started. If we want Norwegian industry in Norwegian hands – in Norway – we need to have a completely different political focus in the future. We must, as everyone knows, ensure safe and predictable framework conditions based on an overall economic approach. Norwegian Forest Saugbruks is a very good example of the fact that there is not enough political focus on what is needed to succeed with Norwegian industry in the future, and that the burden of a single decision can become too much – and simply break the industry. Then I can promise that it will be difficult to return. The only right thing in the current situation is to put the concessional treatment of NorthConnect at rest. We know that the cables drive the electricity price up, and we know that a new cable will contribute further. The only logical thing then, if you don't deliberately keep Norwegian electricity consumers and not least the industry for fools, is to stop the concession treatment with immediate effect, until you've had experience with those you've already adopted. Only in this way can we ensure that Norwegian consumers are taken seriously, and that Norwegian industry gets the conditions of competition it deserves, and the predictability that must exist.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e3386	I am pleased that today, on this historic day, we can offer congratulations and greetings, because there is no doubt that this is historic. The four non-socialist parties have now come together in government after five years of good cooperation here at Stortinget. In a government platform where four batches are to agree on a basis of co-government, individual batches will be implemented so that individual cases are or will not be carried out. This is far from anything new, even though it seems that some parties in this hall mean it. Furthermore, I think it sounds strange to me when our friends in the Christian People's Party are going to get criticism for getting through to their things, because then – at the same time – get criticism for not getting through to the platform. That sounds nice. It's easy to criticize others, but pointing to how you would have done it yourself is harder. One of the biggest ideological divisions in this room is going between today's four government parties and the opposition, and that's the assumption that society is built from below and up and not the other way around. When the left-hand side talks about the community, you talk about the state and only it. I believe that there is much more and often more important community in this country than the state. I think it's more important that you have a family around you, that you have friends together, in a workplace, in a school class, in a leisure activity or in the countryside you live in. The fact that society is built from below and up means that all people are initially free and independent, that the power of society should be as close as possible to those who make the decisions best, and that it is how hard you work, which is to determine what opportunities you will get, not who you are, or where you come from. I'm glad we have a government that says in the introduction to the platform that a good society is built from below and up. Finally, this government is to ensure a sustainable welfare society for the future. Then we need more jobs that contribute to the state budget, and fewer jobs that take away from the state budget. Don't get us wrong: we need more teachers, nurses and policemen, but we need to have more growth in private than in the public sector in terms of innovative jobs. Because it is the workplaces in the private sector that help the government budget to go around. In the last year, 56 000 new jobs were created in this country, three out of four in the private sector. Unemployment is the lowest in more than ten years, growth is rising, and tax revenue is rising. Now we people elected here in the hall pay homage to those who create values in this country, and make sure to include more people in the world of work.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e3397	I want to begin by congratulating both the country and the government on the new government and the government statement. I would particularly like to congratulate the Christian People's Party, which is now part of the government. The first sentence of the Declaration states that the goal of the government is ‘that people can live free and independent lives’. In addition, they say: ‘The government has strong faith that people who are shown trust will also take responsibility.’ Since 2013, the four parties that are now in government together have reduced taxes and charges by about 25 billion. kr, to the delight of both the people and the business community in Norway. It's a political direction that I'm glad the platform says you're going to continue. It's good for value creation, it makes sense, and there's justice in letting ordinary people keep more of their own income. However, this is in stark contrast to the direction the opposition in the country wants to lead us. There was nothing less than a tax hunt into people's wallets we witnessed when the alternative budgets for the current year were presented by the opposition last autumn. One party was concerned with overcoming the other. The centre party would increase the taxes and charges by 4 billion. kr, Working party with a total of 10 billion. kr, SV's figure was 18 billion. kr, while Red's 28 brd. kr was measured against the Environmental Party of the Greens 34 billion. kr in increased taxes and taxes. It's a different direction than the government has set up. In order for us to get values, they must also be created. The values are created by neither the government, nor the government, nor by depositors. People and business out there are the ones that create the values, and it's our job as politicians to make arrangements and not put unnecessary obstacles in the way. The level of taxation — having a reasonable level of taxation for enterprises, but also for individuals and individuals — is therefore important for continued growth in the country. I would also like to highlight the commitment to infrastructure. In a reply earlier today, I mentioned that this year the record length of 104 km was opened with a quadruple highway. It's twice as much – combined – as in the last four years the red-green government crashed. There is a road construction and investment on infrastructure that means a lot, not least for rural areas. I am also very pleased that the government statement adds to a continued commitment to infrastructure, both public transport and road construction.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e3417	Knut Arild Hareide played in many ways up to today. It's kind of strange when you look back at it, but it started with the book that's called what matters, which left the basis for his advice to go to the left. And what really matters? Well, I'm thinking first and foremost of what kind of society we create for the smallest of us, and especially the most vulnerable children. What really matters is how we catch up, help and care for the children who don't get care from their parents, but who may be subjected to failure. What really matters is to make sure that those children don't meet with betrayal from us – we are going to help them and give protection. That is why the rebellion among the child-restraint workers that has now been launched is among the things that really matter. 80 pst. Children’s protection employees say they have too little time and too much to do to be able to follow up each child in a good enough way. It's profoundly serious. How should the child who has suffered a care failure receive the tailor-made assistance she needs and the assistance she is entitled to if the employee does not have time to follow her up properly? Some safe adults at work are the basis for a good child protection service, and child protection may be the most important job in our society. That is why it is so serious when employees in some child protection services are responsible for 30 to 40 children on average. And therefore, it is so serious that this government has canceled the state escalation for several child protection positions. The red-green government in its time earmarked more than a thousand new posts in the municipal child protection service. This government has delivered less than 150, and in the state budget for this year there are zero new posts. That's why we were many who had great expectations of the Christian People's Party and the new Minister of Children, but expectations have been shattered by this government statement. The manning of child protection is not mentioned in a word. What really matters should not be given priority – or was there perhaps something else that really meant something to that part of the party that went to the right? Instead of giving priority to vulnerable children, we are left with restricted rights to self-determined abortion and the same economic policy for the elite. Fortunately, however, child protection employees are now mobilizing for an alternative, and it is fully feasible to implement that option. It's just about choosing: are the big money going to them with already big wallets, or are the big money going to the little ones among us? I know at least what kind of choices I would make in that choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e3430	I want to start by passing on some greetings that I have caught up from the outside world to us here in Norway. According to the UN, we are the happiest country in the world – it was probably in 2017, because in 2018 we fell one place, then Finland was the happiest. The World Bank takes us to the richest country in the world, and The Economist takes us to the world's most democratic country. This is a little bit of the starting point for what we're discussing here today. It's an inheritance we all have a share in, but it's a future we have to manage further. We have a very good starting point. The debate here today sounds as if what matters is Swedish states, and that there is a great threat – our neighbouring country, which is built on many of the same traditions, which have not been so lucky to have oil and gas, but which transforms its energy sector and its greenhouse gas cuts, and which actually has higher electricity prices than we do in Norway. They also have much less purchasing power. So we're well off, and we have adventurous opportunities. Especially if we continue to cooperate with our neighboring countries, as we have done over many decades, and develop that cooperation, we can really continue to be the green and rich corner of the world. I heard the representative Dag Terje Andersen show that there are now three and a half parties in government. Well, the Labour Party clearly wanted a government with two and a half parties, in minority. I don't think it would have been so effective. We're going to be glad that we have a majority government that has ambitious climate targets, in fact the most ambitious Norway has ever had, and among the most ambitious in the world. We're going to cut the emissions and reduce them by 45 pst. by 2030. We're going to become a low-carbon society by 2050. We are the country in the world that is converting passenger transport fastest into electric transport. We're going to start with heavy transport. We're going to phase in the van transport. There's a lot to do. Soon we will also be presenting a strategy for green shipping. We are also the country in the world that has built most battery ferries and hybrid ferries. This is an industrial transition that is both fast and huge, but it also gives us competitiveness in the future. We have adventurous possibilities. We will also continue the cooperation we have had in the energy sector with the other Nordic countries. The debate on high electricity prices and the power cable we are not going to build becomes a bit funny when Poland and Denmark have now agreed to build a gas pipeline between Poland and Denmark, and it will be largely filled with Norwegian gas. If there are great opportunities, it is precisely here – to continue that transition and to help Europe with an energy-friendly transition.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e3443	The long-term bourgeois government of over 30 years is now replaced by a non-socialist majority government. With that, we will begin a new chapter in Norwegian political history. It is good for Norway, and it is good for the voters, who have voted for a civil majority. It will create greater stability in Norwegian policies and increase predictability of business and society elsewhere. Government policy aims at contributing to increased security and a sustainable welfare society. Generational perspective and administrative responsibility are important values. We want the children who are growing up today to experience a future where there is security for pensions and well-being. The oil and gas sector is our most important industry and will be the industry for many years to come, although it will not be the powerful engine of the Norwegian economy to which we have been accustomed. Where the Workers' Party is now creating uncertainty, we will provide our main industry with stable and predictable framework conditions. Controlled conversion is quite different from controlled winding-up. A sustainable welfare society must create values through more industries than today. Tens of thousands of new, green and smart jobs must be created if we are to succeed in filling the gap in profitability and ring-effects. Values must be created before they can be distributed. Here, perhaps, one of the most important lines of Norwegian policy. We need new, strong jobs that deliver revenue to the state budget, not jobs that live on the state budget. Therefore, we will continue to create a better basis for value creation across the country. We have to make it attractive to create jobs that are profitable, and those jobs have to be created in private enterprises. It's about framework conditions. The most important investments we make are in knowledge, competence, research and development, in better roads, rail and digital infrastructure, combined with an even stronger commitment to social security, preparedness and defence. The tax system must encourage work and investment. We must create more, not more treasure! We're going to keep simplifying and reducing the tax burden on jobs. It is worth working and paying to take the risk by starting yourself. And, above all, our goods and services still need to be guaranteed good access to markets outside the world. When the economy is going well, the public has to hold back. We need to ensure that the growth of public expenditure is no greater than the growth of the rest of the economy, and we need to continue to make it more efficient. 2019 appears to be the third year in which the growth of the economy is greater than the growth of public expenditure. That's good news. The policy platform responds to the migration challenges with actions that can be implemented over the next two years, while continuing a policy that gave the highest industrial growth of ten years in 2018 and a record-breaking municipal economy. It supports new work on migration and reforms that extend over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e3464	We live at a time when major challenges meet us quite hard. The geopolitical picture is more alarming. Protectionism is increasing. Climate change hits us harder and faster. International trade is facing new challenges. Dry and flood affect us in many ways, not least in terms of our own food production. If we are to help future generations live good lives here, we need to find solutions to the climate challenges now. The Norwegian model is based on the fact that all stakeholders are involved in finding good solutions and are committed to taking responsibility for the solutions agreed upon. The way of working is important in the workplace and in labour and business policies, but also in the context of climate challenges. With wise political choices here in the Chamber, we can help find many of the important solutions to save the world, while creating new values and new jobs. It's easy to talk about conversion, but it's hard to be part of it. For each individual it is about doing new jobs, using new tools in their job. For businesses, it's about taking greater risks, innovating more, maybe finding new markets and making more money. The changes may be difficult for the individual — no change can be much worse. Prime Minister Erna Solberg is now to lead Norwegian society through important changes – it is simply an important period of change in which we stand. The Labour Party is going to be impatient and make its own proposals that we believe are the solution to the challenges we face. Climate change will challenge us, both the way we live today, and the way we work in the future. Climate change will result in more severe environmental impacts than we have seen in the past. Climate challenges will require changes in all industries – no one escapes. The new climate objectives will require changing priorities for the State budget. Are we ready to make these changes? In that case, it's just giving green light to the changes. We in the Labour Party want a more ambitious industrial and climate policy, which can also build up under, among other things. the circular economy. We have incredible opportunities both to create new values and new jobs and to take care of the climate. A concrete example will be getting a CO 2 fund in place, which the NHO is very impatient after, and which they are unable to get to the negotiating table, along with today's government. This doesn't last. Here it has to be speeded up. We need to speed up carbon capture and -storage, and we need to make it clear that we are ready for investment decisions already in 2020. The green conversion figures should be replaced by action.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e3487	Defence policy has not been between the themes raised by the government party in today's debate. It's hard to understand when you look at the global threat picture, which also happens to Norway. In the foundation of government are many fine words, but little concrete. The status is that the proportion of GDP spent on defence is falling, not up to the 2 % target, which the government has committed itself to working towards. The chief of defense was very open in speech in Oslo Military Society on January 22. As the Center Party has pointed out for a long time, the Chief of Defense said in his speech that strengthening the defence structure is absolutely necessary. The defence is simply too small for Norway to be able to meet our national and international commitments over time. The ability to hold out and be present where necessary is not good enough. First of all, it's up to our maritime resources and our land authority, according to the head of defence. He could also have taken up with the Air Force in the outreach saying of challenges. The government is now moving most Bell helicopters to Back. The frigates don't have helicopters, the Coast Guard doesn't have helicopters, and soon the Army doesn't have helicopter support to count on. At the top of this is Norway's ability to monitor maritime seriously. The Minister of Defence now says that we need to look at hiring civilians to ensure adequate MPA capacity. It would strictly not have been necessary if we had kept Andeya airstation as the base for MPA operations. Interestingly, the government is drawing forward allied reception in the declaration. We have been waiting a long time for that message and cannot get the allier reception report quickly enough. If you follow Troms Right, there'll be an emergency gap in Troms when there's only three Bell helicopters left on Bardufoss. They shall arrange for new rescue helicopters to be located at the helicopter environment in Bardu. The central party believes that the event in Tamokdalen underlines this need. We hope that this isn't just a loose play for the gallery, and we're making the proposal in the hall today so that the government can get ready, and get this important work started as quickly as possible. No war is won without soldiers on the ground. The Norwegian army is made up of a brigade. With our vast and vast land area to defend, and in addition to our expected contribution to the alliance, this is far too little. The government has neglected the land power. The protection of homes has been reduced, nor has the government sewn for helicopters or upgraded modern tanks for the small army we have, but calm down the proposal of the Centre Party and doubt on the phase-in of tanks first in 2025. It is disappointing that the Minister of Defence is not on the list of speakers today. He should have commented on all of these points. But it probably shows how low the government prioritizes the defense.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e3502	Let me begin by welcoming the Christian People's Party on board. I understand, of course, that the joy naturally is not shared by everyone in this room. But it is nevertheless a great distance from the joy of doing black paint and scare propaganda, which many in the opposition choose to do. As a mess, of course, I was very pleased with the Jeløya platform, but I have no problem admitting that the result from Granavolden is even better. The government’s platform is 100 pages full of policies for a sustainable welfare society – a society that solves the major challenges for communities and for individuals, a society with space to create growth and more jobs, a society that promotes the green shift, and a society with opportunities for all. I don't think the opposition could have read the whole platform. Based on the debate in the last few days, it may seem that someone has used the energy to count some words, to see how many times they are left in the platform. It's probably an exciting exercise, but there won't be much politics out of it. What they have had to put on policy has largely been about three things: abortion, biotechnology and equality. In terms of women’s reproductive rights, the platform has equated the legislation in Norway with our neighbouring country. We remove the opening for abortion of one or more healthy multiples. The criticism of the Workers' Party is particularly hollow. In the years from 2010 to 2013, when the party had the Minister of Health, nothing was done to comply with the request of the professional authorities for clarification in this area. Then it was easiest to stick your head far down in the sand. Now they shoot at the government with cannons and try to present it as if the whole abortion law is at stake. That's obviously wrong. As far as the Biotechnology Act is concerned, criticism of us is not about making changes, but on the contrary that in a number of areas we are just keeping the law as it is today. The criticism of gender equality policy is also black paint without roots in reality. In the last five years, there have been positive developments in a number of areas, and Norway is today the world’s second-best countries on gender equality. Right wants a society with little differences. That's why we're just betting on work, education and targeted benefits for those who need it the most. For example, 50,000 children were given cheaper kindergartens in 2016, and in the new platform, we launch the leisure card for all children and young people between the ages of 6 and 18. The Granavolden platform has the good answers to the challenges that await us as a nation. Where many on the left are concerned with combating wealth and focusing at that end, government parties are committed to combating poverty.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e3519	When we criticize the government and the platform, it's because it doesn't answer the most serious and most important questions we have. Unfortunately, criticising the government's climate policy is not black paint. The goals may be good, but when the means of taking the cuts at home are not there, it's just talking. When you protect the transport sector and allow the oil sector to continue as it is – it is possible that the new Minister of Agriculture will take all the cuts in the agricultural sector that are hers, I hardly think so – it is simply not linked and it is not sustainable. The other applies to well-being and inequality. I hear more from the government parties talking about sustainability in welfare, and it is clear that those who are sickest and without work, and those who are poor and poor, have to experience cutbacks, while those who are healthy and have great wealth, will get sewn up under their arms so they can barely – to say it like that – use them. It is also clear that there should be more privatisation in welfare. But profit in welfare is not sustainable. This means that our tax money – money to go to services, child protection, kindergartens, care for the elderly, and good pay and working conditions for those who do the important job – is taken away from the well-being of the heroes. It is not sustainable that we should waste money that should have gone to child protection for profit. It is reassuring when we have a municipal minister who, through his intervention, showed that she obviously does not understand the difference between the store and child protection. That's pretty bad. In terms of inequality, we've taken up the housing stock. There are more tens of thousands now than before who get housing support, we spend less money on housing support in 2019 than we did in 2009. So in the meantime, the boutes have exploded, and the income of the low income groups has fallen. I have to repeat: the average income for those who receive housing support now is NOK 134 000 per year for the household – as stated in the State budget – and then the government will target the housing support. I wonder who's going to get it then, if this isn't targeted far beyond what's socially sound. People's house and home are EN busy, so we want to increase the housing support and rather let those who have large fortunes and many houses and cabins contribute a little more to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e3532	The leader of the Labour Party, the representative Gahr Støre, said in his article earlier today that the government platform contains a recognizable policy – and fortunately for it. The policies of the non-socialist parties work in practice. So it goes so far in District Norway, the municipal economy is good, unemployment is record low, business is flourishing, and roads and roads are being built that link the city and build well together. Seafood has increased exports by 50 pst. in four years, and coastal marine industry is experiencing a formidable development. In agriculture, there are also good results, and in 2017, forestry had the best year since 1989. Travel life has seen record four years in a row, and since the red-green ones, the number of foreign tourists has increased by more than two million. The maritime supplier industry is doing well, along the coast it is delivering innovative world-class product. Many new electric ferries and boats are in production or are in order, including from foreign buyers. We have to take steps to ask ourselves what is the obstacle to development in the districts, and then we have to be willing to pursue a policy of growth and development. Then the solution is also to build more roads and railways, just to reduce distances. After years of decline on the road and track, more than 1 000 billion will now be invested. kr to bind the city and land together. Road standard increases and maintenance suspension decreases. Local authorities have also been given new and larger tasks, which is why many of the reforms to the government are important and are continued in the new government declaration. Where the Labour Party and the Centre Party are concerned about seeing boundaries in District Norway, the government sees new possibilities, and it asks the platform to characterize them. The government has a district policy that helps to create new jobs and a solid local economy, which provides better welfare where people live. The number of ROBEK municipalities is now down to 17. In short, government has a municipal and district policy that works well. Districts need policy-makers who say yes to local self-government and who support the mineral industry, say yes to the EEA, yes to more water power, yes to farming and yes to new roads in the districts. If we say no to this, we also say no to jobs in the districts. More local self-government and less regulation and state detail management are fundamental to the Right's district policy. It also reflects the government platform. That's good. Fortunately, the opposition does not see so much new direction in the government platform, the policies of the non-socialist parties seem, after all, very, very good.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e3555	The new government platform provides a good basis for creating new businesses and continuing to exist. Towards a more climate-friendly society, it is essential that we be able to give entrepreneurs leeway and that small businesses develop further. The Government Declaration provides room for entrepreneurs and businesses and for better framework conditions. The entry of the Christian People's Party into the government has made the Left more and more effective in terms of our business policy. Self-employed people need to strengthen their social rights, and it is important for skilled entrepreneurs to take the opportunity to start their own business. The government shall work to reduce red tape and forms in order to facilitate the start-up, conversion, renewal and operation of small and medium-sized enterprises. If we are to cope with the transition that Norway is about to undergo, it is necessary to ensure a framework that contributes to growth and development. It is also good that the platform strengthens opportunities for financing business in Norway. The declaration provides for increased use of public finance and easier access to risk capital. Good public instruments are to be continued, but better provision is also made for private risk capital to be used to strengthen business in Norway. Scattered ownership is a central pillar of a well-functioning democracy and important to the Left. The platform facilitates self-ownership democracy by involving more people in the economy as owners of businesses. Scattered ownership is necessary to divide power and resources into several hands, create a social market economy and build society from below through growth and innovation. For the Left, emphasis is placed on industrial research and innovation. Button shooting is facilitated in existing enterprises through clean start-ups. This contributes to the strengthening of Norway’s position as an innovative country. The fact that Norwegian enterprises and institutions are also encouraged to participate more fully in the EU Framework Programme for Research and Innovation is central. As far as fisheries and agriculture are concerned, the entry of the Christian People's Party into the government has given important impetus to the Left. The annual agricultural situation is being continued and agricultural policy is to a large extent governed by the guidelines agreed by the Christian People's Party and the Left in the work of the Stortingen on the agricultural report last year. This I think is very important. I believe that the review of fisheries policy is now more consistent with our policy. I am very pleased that the plan to structure boats under 11 meters is put in the drawer. Such boats are important for the recruitment and industry, and they also ensure that in the future young people have the opportunity to enter the important industry. As far as aquaculture is concerned, I am pleased that the declaration states that the municipalities should be compensated for the use of premises for farming. This is a matter that we will certainly come back to. It is also good that the government statement specifically mentions tourism as an important part of business. Travel life is an important contributor to maintaining residence and local value creation. It is an industry that creates jobs across the country, with significant tax effects for municipalities, and integrates workers with different ethnic and social backgrounds. Travel life is important internationally and in order to have a sustainable international travel market. I am very pleased with this, and not least also that we have arranged to give the municipalities the power to give farm brewers a sale and a gift grant locally associated with the breweries. This is good.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e3578	The Granavolden platform did not contain many surprises. We knew that women's rights were to be tightened up. We knew that there would be a lot of Right and Advance Party policy – with the Left and Christian People's Party as tailhangings. We have received that, but it was still a surprise that we can read out of the blue that the Finnish Hospital has been transferred and subject to UNN, the University Hospital of North Norway. This government continues its overrun of Finnmark. The relocation of the Finnish Hospital has not been discussed with anyone – not with the employees, not with the leaders, not with the political authorities. Three former directors at UNN have written a chronicle showing how little thought this is. This extensive change, which will have major consequences for both the Finnish Hospital and UNN, has not even been investigated. UN has never asked for it, the Finnmark Hospital has not asked for it, but it seems that centralization is an ideology for the government. Health Minister Höie is moving out and saying that it is important to have dialogue with the employees about bringing together the hospitals. What to do with dialogue after introducing a dictatorship? This is skin democracy and nothing else. Bent Höie writes that in response to the massive criticism the government has received: ‘The aim of the reorganisation is, therefore, to strengthen the hospital provision of the Finnmark population.’ It is alarming that losing control of your own hospitals will strengthen the hospital offer in the county. We who are Finnmarks have experienced this before from the majority of the Storing and Government. We know that the bulk of the population has not listened to Finnmark when 87 pst. The citizens said no to be merged with Troms, but we thought that the government had a self-interest in the success of the forthcoming coercion merger, and that they would help at that time. The government continues to overrun Finnmark and is even willing to move the business boundary without any comments from any of its stakeholders. Talk about anti-democratic mentality. For me, it goes into the range of lack of interest for the northernmost county in Norway. We have a great sense of abstinence associated with the coercion of Troms and Finnmark, and the sense of abstinence is not diminished by this. For more than five years, the government has centralised Finnish law-enforcement workplaces. Here you can mention tax offices that are closed, fishing offices that have been closed, and that the Food Authority no longer has a regional office. The list can be filled out, and true my words: It's probably getting worse with this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e3598	It is quite incredible, but Siv Jensen and Minister of Transport Dale, both from the Progress Party, and I mean the same thing – about one thing: good infrastructure and transport are important for the country. But then the consensus is over. Siv Jensen spent most of his time, when the platform was presented, mentioning the private car – individual freedom – and drew out the condition of the poor private car driver. It is also these thoughts that have won to keep it on the government platform. They shall double the entry for toll support, provide tax exemptions for tolling costs for fossil cars, have larger budgets to build motorways, and, by sea, will open up 120 km/h – all at the expense of the environment and climate. At the same time, there is no reward for those who leave the car standing. There are no new concrete measures to increase the collective dimension and to stimulate cycling and walking — no new, just general formulations. They'll build the highways before the railway upgrade many places where it goes parallel, at best at the same time. In any case, the basis for the growth of passengers on the railway is weakened. Intercity deployment is delayed for at least two years in relation to NTP. Can any representatives find a single Progress Party trailer in any of the major environmental organisations? I wonder – in environments that are concerned with the future, the planet's climate and the loss of nature. How can the Left live with this? That's what I'm asking myself. We see that the Right-Fremskrit party-dominated government allows the imminent climate problems to be resolved in an incredibly clever way. They just set the ambitions up, some percent, and then they shift all responsibility until 2030. Then they're good. But there are several majorization periods. They do not take a strong grip on emissions cuts here and now, and they simply give up the 2020 targets. On the other hand, there is another field in the transport sector where there is no actuarial paralysis, and there is privatisation and deferral of tenders. There are the good ones. The railway reform, the fragmentation of responsibilities, the outsourcing of competition and the reputation of the English company Go-Ahead on Norwegian rails may be key to this. And they never mention the workforce in these conversions – never. That's what we have to put on the track every single time. At the same time as the motorways are being built, goods are being trampled on the track. The enormous growth in freight transport occurs on rubber tyres, not on rails. So no major, rapid action is being taken to ensure the profitability of the transporters on the railway. They vote against SV's proposal on this every time. But we're gonna go ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e3613	First, congratulations to the new government. In the debate here, the Labour Party is trying to create a picture that, with the Right in Government, it becomes a colder society. But I must say to the Workers' Party that it will not be even if the Workers' Party keeps repeating it. For it was with the Right in government that patients at the bottom of the health policy table were raised – patients with mental health and drug challenges. It is in this government that user involvement is set in the system – your voice should be heard in matters that affect you. With the Christian People's Party in government, there is a real footprint in child and family policy. I'm incredibly happy about that. The kids need to be heard. The government will therefore set up a youth panel to advise the government on relevant issues affecting them, in the fields of mental health, integration or school dropout. It is necessary to take the young voices seriously. The January report of the Health Authority reviewed 106 child - protection cases involving care transfers, and they found that children and young people were often overshadowed by their parents ’ problems. So in this government, we want to base the best of the child. We want to strengthen the child's involvement in public care. We want to strengthen child protection and continue the child protection reform. We will introduce competence requirements and authorisation in municipal child protection services. Local authorities should be given increased professional and financial responsibilities. Municipalities should be able to choose child protection measures and who should operate them – state or private – and we must not least ensure that siblings who need child protection grow up together. We're busy with that. We're going to give a closer follow-up at school to those in child protection. The number of persons employed in the protection of children has increased, and that is not what the representative of SV claimed in this room. By the end of 2017, there were more than 6000 annual works in the field of child protection. So there's been an increase of 1,150 employees since 2013. We will pursue a policy that raises children and young people out of poverty, and therefore also out of alienation. We want an integration dew. We will create more jobs. We will not least strengthen the social security network for children and strengthen the rights. And we want children to be able to participate in leisure activities. Therefore, the activity card for children comes from 6 to 18 years of age. It'll help.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e3626	I record that the Chief of Defense's speech in Oslo Military Society has been referred to a number of times today. That's why I took the speech. Because it's good. He opened with: ‘Dear all! Happy New Year! This spring, work starts with a new long-term defence plan. The government is planning to promote this for The Storing in the spring of 2020. Minister of Defence, Frank Bakke-Jensen, from this chair on 7 January, expressed a political will to step up the defence in the years to come, and that my professional-military council should also this time weigh heavily in the preparation of the plan. I am pleased about that." Then the head of defense continues: ‘The long-term plan adopted in 2016 is developing the Defence in the right direction. So we're not facing a major change of defense. Much good work has been done in recent years to make what we have work, to make the support structure more effective, and to lay the foundations for new investments.’ That's what's a bit of a point for this debate. Defence policy is therefore a long-term work. Having a long-term plan means planning in the long term. We're doing a very good job, and we're getting the increase and the results we want, in a large and complex system of changing security conditions around us, which was also obvious to the head of defense. There's a greater seriousness about our security environment. Then it's strange that you're going to talk down all the good work being done in the defense, and all the good changes we've made. We have increased the budgets by over 30 pst since 2013. The land power proposition addresses the challenges that are now coming if we are to have a greater land power in the future. The red-greens had a project on the table where they were to build 40-year-old tanks. We've said, it doesn't hold for the future, we're going to buy new tanks. We're changing the recruiting school by moving it out of the battalions. With a dedicated recruiting school, we get more operational in the battalions, better crew, more professionalism. We change the duty of protection in the areas we think it is necessary. We're going to have 16 months of protection, we're going to have to have good people in positions longer – to be better and more operational where we are. We are building a new mobilization system – the reservists must have a meaningful mission to do – simply to increase clarity. We have to be clear faster if we need it. We're changing the education and the personnel system so that we can have specialists in the forces. It makes it a more meaningful career. We get more competent heads in the defense, and we compete better for the most competent heads in the defense. So we are building the defence force for the future with the long-term plan we are now in, and with the long-term plan we are going to implement this year, in close cooperation with the head of defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e3656	As of the financial year 2015, the government introduced the red tape and efficiency reform, the so-called ABE reform, as a permanent part of budgetary work. After all, the right objective is to ‘restrict growth in the public sector’, which is so fine in the batch programme. I can tell you that the growth in the public sector has increased by 3.3 pst. of GDP of mainland Norway from 2013 until today. Not enough to miss your own goals – crushing criticism from, among other things. The police force of the near-police reform does not seem to mean anything at all. The reform of red tape and efficiency, as it is called fine, is carried on in all areas without any coordination. Services are becoming poorer and more centralised, and frustration arises in those affected. We now experience a failed municipal reform, regional reform, rail reform, police reform and reform of the university and higher education sectors. These are reforms that the government describes as a continuous history of sunshine. It's not like that in the real world. It is a coherent history of centralisation, where decisions are taken in closed control rooms and out in the Directorates. Now there is a road reform going on over the same reading. In the government platform, the government writes that it will continue its efforts to modernise the state road system, with objectives of greater space for action and more efficient service production. Do we recognise the wording and objectives of the other reforms? Modernization and efficiency are two words today's government likes to adorn itself with, but what does that mean in practice? In the investigation delivered by the State Road Administration on 15 January, it is proposed to close the current regional road office and replace it with a divisional structure. This is a model where power and authority are centralised away from today’s regional road office — and in clear text away from the areas where jobs are to be done. Knowledge of geography, weather and precaution — in one word: local knowledge — is very important in a diverse and long-term country such as Norway. Then we depend on having local presence from those who are going to build and maintain our roads. In parallel, an evaluation of the road traffic and vehicle area of the State Road Service is carried out. Here, too, there is a centralisation of services. Traffic offices are proposed to be closed, the services are moved further away from people. Time and money are charged to those who depend on the services. The centre party believes that these processes are characterised by a lack of holisticity. This leads to chaos and frustration. The most serious thing is that hundreds of employees don't know if they have a job or where to work in the near future. In Uppland and Hedmark we now see a struggle between cities that can lead to the disappearance of important public jobs far beyond what is transferred to the new county municipality. Proximity to the offerings people depend on, is very important, and it has never been a success to organize away from reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e3672	In this debate we have heard that the Minister of Local Affairs boasts that local politicians have been good at housekeeping, that government has finally confirmed that they also see the extraordinary income as one of the reasons for the supposedly very good local economy, and that there have been redundancies. It is an image that cannot be shared out there, including by local politicians from the Right – for 33 of the Right rapporteurs added more to property taxes in 2017 than in 2015. It is related to the fact that the option they see, and as they also express through the media, is that they need to cut welfare services. Then we're back to what was part of the line change, namely whether we have an income system created to ensure good and equivalent services throughout the country. We can see that we don't have that. We have a government that has previously chosen to use the income system to get through its wishes for larger municipalities. Yes, even the Prime Minister said in the statement yesterday that one must secure the center of the municipalities. It should be safe to be there – but nothing about it being safe in the rest of the country. This must be related to the desire to merge several municipalities. It is then interesting that the Stortinget has made a decision that says that during this period any municipal mergers will be based solely on voluntary activity. Nor should the income system be used to impose aggregations. It is interesting to note that the Minister of Local Affairs was not concerned with the means to be used to ensure equivalent services, while not using the income system to force through community mergers. These are issues of concern. It affects local democracy out there. It concerns the possibilities for self-government and the development of their services and tasks in the districts. That's something the Center Party thinks is important, and we're going to keep fighting for. There's also something about when economic models go from desk to desk, when the terrain doesn't fit with the map you've drawn, then this government is trying to explain away after explaining that it's going to be the municipal economy of the time, and that you've provided better services than before. But if that's how the municipalities provide more and more services, it's related to the local politicians having that room to make their own local adjustments and priorities, and so we see a government that's increasingly busy operating detailed governance. It is not going to promote local democracy, nor is it going to be able to develop good communities throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e3683	In a polarised debate, it is to be understood that an hour has to go to extremes to produce differences in policy. But when the extremes are presented as normal, I think an actual must stop and make some reflections. Over the past six months, where polarization has been great between flies in politics, it has been that I have had to read the headlines up to several times to really realize that yes, this is my Norway – a Norway where doomsday prophecy is loose, and black clouds are being measured across the horizon. Then it's good help to get out and meet people and businesses. Then there is good help in talking to business and individuals, organizations and the man in the street, who can tell that there is now work to be found where there were previously permits, who can tell that the school day has been easier, and that respect for people with professional letters has increased, who can tell that before the journey life saw an ever new record, and that the maritime supplier industry has gained a boost after new electric ferries and hybrid shipping have come into production, because we have a historic investment in the transport sector towards the green shift. And if we talk about seafood, they've increased their exports by 50 pst. in the last four years, and in 2017, forestry had the best year since 1989, which is due to investments in road infrastructure and forestry quays, investments that in themselves have ring-fenced other areas. The Norwegian farmer also experiences stronger production growth than for a long time, and fewer gardening is being laid down than when the Senterpartiet was put in government. People see that more roads and pathways are being built that connect our country, and we have dared to take on some structural changes that have necessarily been and will be demanding to implement, but the result of structural changes will eventually show that they were absolutely necessary to bring society forward. We are not implementing reforms to change the country, but because society has changed. Police encounter other forms of crime, and it requires other ways of working. Health services require more specialisation, and it requires a different collaboration with municipalities, which in turn get other tasks that they have to handle. The citizens experience that power is being shifted downwards in the system, and that digitalisation will give us easier access to information and facilitate work. This is the face we meet when we go out and talk to people. And the platforms we're invited to discuss, put in place a policy that is even more likely to make use of the whole country, which focuses on the broad district policy, which focuses on living communities and secure jobs, while at the same time providing for the green shift to be an important engine for a more differentiated business. That's the story that people know about.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e3702	I am glad that I provoked the Minister of Defense so that he signed up for 3 minutes. Unfortunately, there is no possibility of a replication, and once again, the government's priority is not on top when it comes to defence. The Minister of Defence outlines the main points of the long-term plan – increasing budget, increasing land power, new tanks, etc. But when the Minister of Defense first took the trouble of drawing to 3 minutes, he might also take the trouble of commenting on the points I took up in my post. It is always wise to listen and respond. The decision in the 2016 long-term plan was a minimum defence. It doesn't hide the head of defense either. It wasn't a robust defense. The government did not select the option that the defense manager recommended. It's wrong that the Center Party is talking everything down. We are e.g. positive to a higher priority for Home Affairs when it comes to both equipment and training. That's good. But we are critical there are also many in the Defense itself are critical. A new long-term plan cannot provide a minimum defence. In our alternate budget, we added 1.3 billion. kr more than the government made the defense, for now it has to be seized. You can't just continuously reorganize and move people. In the Army Brigade, there is a concern that he too will be split up. One moves things to Finnmark. It's insecure. People don't know what to do. It is time for a firmer governance and for a real growth for the Landpower, the Army and the Homeland Protection, which has also been cut in crews, even if equipment is affected. It's not like we're taking up the points I raised in my post to provoke the Minister of Defence. We take it up because there are important questions to discuss in this Chamber, when we now have a discussion about the future and the policy that will lead the country over the next few years. The government is incredibly pleased with your reorganizations. It was mentioned by a previous speaker that the state road system should be reorganized. In my county we have had a regional office for the State Road Administration, and it has worked very well. The government is now in the process of implementing a regional reform that will lead to a break-up of the state road system, resulting in a clear reorganization of the rest. It is very uncertain whether the decentralised organisation will continue, and whether Leikanger will retain its badly needed state jobs. They have been doing a great job developing the road system in the West for many years.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e3717	I don't think we in this room are going to characterize the government's priority of defence based on how many lines Life Signe Navarsette gets to take on me. There'll be a lot of possibilities. That's a good point the representative Navarsete picks up, when she says there's uncertainty, someone moves to Finnmark. It's a strange attitude that I sometimes meet in the Defense – that you think we have an army just for inner Troms. So we have a land authority to defend the country – the whole country. And when we say that there's a greater seriousness about the security environment, it's a greater seriousness over the nearby areas, it makes us have to take some action. Establishing a battalion in Finnmark, moving the country power back to Finnmark now, is a strategic approach the head of defense has chosen, simply because our unpredictable surroundings have made it necessary. It's also the case that we would like to have some soldiers in the Army that we could only get out if we had to establish something new somewhere, but that's how it was completely built down. We started the job of building up. That's why we're doing personnel conversions in Defense, which is why we come up with a new military order, and that's why we're building a new officer role. We're going to have personnel who can take the Defense into the new era. There's talk about people who are able to use digital technology, it's about people who are able to use new technology, which gives us new vulnerabilities that make the environment more unsafe. And as for the debate around it by helicopter: it's not like there's any district policy in it when we move Bell down to the special forces. The Chief of Defense makes his judgements in four scenarios: peace, crisis, uncertainty and war. In the crisis scenario, it's that the special forces have a counter-terrorism capacity, a very valued tool, simply because it can take part of the more elusive, uncertain threats that we see, when we see around us examples of hybrid warfare. Conversion is always problematic. It's very difficult to build something for something that's a little uncertain there, but history has taught us that the only mistake we can do is to do nothing – or stay where we are.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e3730	Of course, I have to start by commenting on the Minister of Defence's statements here at the end. He began to talk a lot about the Bell helicopters and why it was important to move them. I just wanted to say that I'm of course completely disagreed with, and there are quite a few who are, and that's why the noise has been so high. And if you're going to talk about the importance of having a helicopter for the Defense, maybe it's a good idea that the helicopters, for example. Train with the army, which is in the midst of Tromsh. But that's not what I took the floor for. In North Norway we have a lot of activity at sea, on land and not least in the mountains. There is also an increasing activity in an area where weather is hard, and with increased growth and activity the need for preparedness will also be higher. The beginning of the crib has moved from Lofoten to Senja. It produces great activity in the smallest fleet group in very demanding sea areas, in the darkest times and in the most demanding conditions. Based on experience, it is known that when the sharks fail, it requires very rapid help. Travel is also in strong growth, especially in the areas around Tromsø and Lyngen, which is a nice area to go on top tours. Unfortunately, it does not only have positive ring-effects. Troms is definitely the country's most remote state: 50 pst. unfortunately, of the many fatal accidents that result from the escape, have occurred in Troms. We cannot accept that there is a lower level of preparedness off the coast of Troms, which therefore has an increasing activity when it comes to shipping, fishing, tourism on land, in the mountains and at sea. The increase in cruise traffic is also great. Then it is unacceptable to have such a bad coverage when it comes to rescue helicopters. The closest helicopters are in Bodø today and in Banak. So we've talked many times about moving the Bell helicopters, which also have a bearing on preparedness. Rescue helicopters shall carry out important emergency missions for society. Combating fire at sea, accidents at land and at water and in the mountains, assisting police in the event of threats and terror, and also operating in emergency evacuation. For what do you do when the boat is in fire outside Tromsø and the rescue helicopter is all east of Finnmark? I would like to thank the Central Party, which has made an important proposal on rescue helicopters at Bardufoss. The Workers' Party supports the intention of the proposal. Whether the location should be Bardufoss or Tromsø, it may be discussed, but this matter is so important that we have to support it, and I expect that especially the Right, which has gone high on the track, also supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e3745	It is now one year since the Left joined the government on the basis of the Yeløya declaration. It was a political platform of which we were proud, with an important impact on the Left within our main initiatives schools, environment and workplaces, and there are particular issues such as the protection of the Lofoten, the Vestral and Senja, the ban on fur breeding, russ reform, the third division of parental leave and an increase in quota refugees showed that the entry of the Left made a clear difference, and that we made the government greener and brighter. Now the government has expanded with the participation of the Christian People's Party, and there is no doubt that a good platform has become even better. The left has had a significant impact on its main issues. We continue to invest in school, strengthen efforts to combat child poverty, increase ambitions in the environment and climate, and create new jobs across the country. The most important thing we can do to ensure sustainability, reduce inequality and give everyone equal opportunities is to bet on school. The support of the Left's school policy has been on the teachers for many years, and this has been done by these four government parties over several years, among others. by making teacher training more attractive, offering more teachers continuing training, creating new career paths at school and ensuring more teachers, especially the younger ones. In addition, a long-term commitment to basic skills has produced results. Norwegian ten-year-olds – both boys and girls – have among other things has had a clear progress in literacy in recent years. There are now several students at the highest skill levels. The proportion of weak readers is halved and the proportion of those who complete and pass higher education has increased. Norwegian school may never have been better. Yet, of course, it's an improvement potential. We need even more a school that adapts to the student, and not the other way around. We need a school where we use the nicest people on the students who need it the most, and where all the students are challenged at their level. That is why it was important for us in the new government platform to continue the strong commitment we have had to teach, and we are therefore pleased that the declaration is also clear that we need to get better special education, so that the kids get faster and better help, and that the professional competence benefits them. Other new measures that we are very pleased to have been included in the declaration are that students with weak secondary school outcomes are better adapted to transition to secondary education through an 11th school year and a more flexible school start, making it easier to postpone — or accelerate — school start-ups for children who need it. This is not to let go of adapting school life to those students who fall outside today, but because a ten-year-old ran from the year you turn 6, until you're 16, not necessarily the best for everyone. A main priority for the Left into this government has been to raise those who need it the most, and ensure all children equal opportunities despite the economy of their parents. The initiatives to be implemented now — in kindergarten, school, SFO and against child poverty — are crucial to success. I record that the opposition likes to call this a 'right-wing' to unsightly the pervasiveness of the Left and Christian People's Party. Of course, it is up to us to show our victory, but I can assure everyone in this Chamber that the Left – in addition to being proud of the achievements we have received – puts us fully behind the main lines of the policy and direction that this government takes for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e3764	The Granavolden Declaration is a good starting point for an offensive policy that focuses on children, rights for people with disabilities, climate action and international solidarity and assistance show a clear Christian People's Party image. However, an interesting feature in the press coverage of government negotiations has been the lack of attention around the negotiations on the kind of industrial policy to be pursued by the new majority government. Here, the Christian People's Party has gained some of its most important impact, especially in terms of framework conditions for primary industries. With regard to agriculture, the Christian People's Party has ensured clear formulations that the main lines of agricultural policy are being pursued. The Government will maintain the system of annual separate agricultural settlements and continue the responsibility of producer cooperatives for market balancing. The Government Platform also notes that no further liberalisation of soil and concession legislation will be implemented. The government will continue the obligation to live and work in order to ensure that the food soil is used for food production. Furthermore, the Government considers that a well-functioning and predictable import protection of agricultural products is a prerequisite for maintaining agriculture throughout the country and increasing food production. In bilateral and multilateral negotiations on trade agreements, the Government will therefore safeguard the interests of Norwegian agriculture and the proper functioning of import protection. And last but not least, the government will continue the channelling policy and aim to continue the emphasis on different structures and sizes of use in order to maintain a viable agriculture throughout the country. As far as fisheries policy is concerned, the Christian People's Party has also achieved an important impact. The main principles of the Participant Act, the Fish Sale Act and the Sea Resource Act shall be laid down. This means that ownership of fishing vessels with associated quotas shall continue to be held by working Norwegian fishermen, and fishermen shall continue to have the last words when fixing the price of the catch. Structures in a closed group of less than 11 metres shall not be opened. Structural allowances with a time limit shall be returned to the groups of vessels at the end of the time limit and no reallocation of resources shall be made between the groups of vessels. Then, in the Christian People's Party, we record that the opposition parties were quick to establish that the Christian People's Party has given up bread for crumbs, and that the fear that the Christian People's Party did not prioritize fisheries and agriculture and districts in the agricultural negotiations has unfortunately turned on, according to the head of the nutrition committee, Geir Pollestad. Such statements remain in a strange light when both the Farmers, Farmers and Small Farmers, the Forest Association, Norskog, the Fishlayer, the Coastal Fisheries Team, the Fish Boat and the Raw Fish Team express great satisfaction at the fact that the Christian People's Party has just gained a significant impact and put its clear impression in the chapters on the primary industries of the Granavolden Declaration. The Christian People's Party will, in months and years to come, work hard and purposefully to translate the words in the government statement into practical politics. Ensuring good framework conditions for primary industries is also good district policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e3781	The new Minister of Agriculture, Bollestad, was asked today whether it was something she wanted to change in agricultural policy. The answer was not quite clear, but it seems that Bollestad becomes the minister who prohibits the cultivation of ants, on a failing professional basis. Minister Bollestad thus becomes the one who on his guard deprives many farmers of the opportunity to produce more food on short-range grass and other rough fodder. The reason for this ban on ant cultivation is that the Right Party and the Advance Party are willing to sacrifice the future of individual peasants to sit in government. It's strange to read Prop. 39 L for 2018-2019, which the government has submitted, with substantive arguments to prohibit the re-cultivation of ants. Here it is claimed that ant farming has little to say about agriculture and food production, and that only a few municipalities and farms are affected. Should this be taken seriously, the conclusion should of course be that this ban is completely unnecessary. The reality is that a ban will mean the hook on the door for many single use. It will hit agriculture hard in some areas of the country that already do not have the best assumptions. All the weaknesses of the professional NIBIO report, with CO 2 emissions as a substitute motive, indicate that this proposition can be used for only one thing, namely to underpin the Right and the Advance Party's willingness to increase the area protection to be taken into account by its small partner. The report bases its conclusions on eye-catching assumptions. The cultivation methods used were already applied in the 1970s. Modern tillage is mainly carried out by excavating underlying mineral soils, excavating ants. It is done to prevent the problems it creates for farming that the organic ant disappears. According to the County of Nordland, ants make up 45.5 pst. of the arable resources in the county. In good agricultural regions such as Lofoten, Vesterålen and Outer Helgeland, myr is the only available reserve for new cultivation, so there are many farms that are not allowed to expand the land base. There will be more ‘tyres and diesel’. This warned the ban must of course be lifted as soon as this government thanks. Until that happens, Minister Bollestad has to be at the forefront to ensure a rough annual compensation for all farmers who receive unlawfully protected cultivated land.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e3797	I would like to begin by warmly welcoming the Christian People's Party to the government. It gives us a majority government that provides safe and good governance of the country. In particular, I would like to welcome my assistant on the southern bench for several years, Kjell Ingolf Ropstad, a solid politician with opinions against the storm. It says respect. It's going well in Norway. Despite tough times, the Solberg government has steered well and done the right priorities when necessary, and the results are clear. New jobs are created in private business, and the unemployment rate is falling. Employment rates are increasing, and fewer are out of work. School results are getting better, more are getting places to learn, and fewer are falling out of high school. The focus is on research and education, and by focusing on entrepreneurial activity, this field has been significantly raised. All of this and much more is crucial for the predictability and sustainability of the welfare society. Our country has a good starting point. We have world-class products and technologies and good export opportunities through the EEA Agreement. The fact that the centre party and environments in the LO will terminate the EEA Agreement is completely incomprehensible, which we also get clear feedback about from the business community. Termination will have dramatic consequences for thousands of jobs throughout the country. An example from my own county is the Cargo factory Chassix in Farsund, which exports everything they produce to Europe. For this company it would mean the hook on the door if something like that were to happen. Fortunately, we now have a government that understands the importance of this agreement. Over several years in the Business Committee – and a number of business visits – the feedback from business across the country is very clear: give us better infrastructure, a competitive tax and tax level, fill with competence and increased commitment to research and education, and we will invest and create jobs. All of these areas have the Solberg government focused on as long as it has existed. It has produced good results. Government parties have increased their transport budgets by 75 pst. and launched an ambitious NTP. They have created New Roads, which build roads faster and cheaper, and that the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party might want to put it back down again, is completely incomprehensible. This government has lowered corporate taxes, wealth taxes on working capital and phased out machine taxes, which is also greatly appreciated by industry, and which the opposition is not talking very loudly about in the face of business. I am proud of all this government has done, and I am optimistic on behalf of the new platform. It will secure our welfare society today and into the future. In the end, I would like to send a big thank you to all those who create jobs in private business. Our welfare society is totally dependent on you.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e3816	In my opinion, this debate has an historical dimension. That dimension relates to the fact that for the first time in the history of the entire Christian People's Party, the representatives of the Christian People's Party are now sitting silently here in the Great Britain and the representatives of the Christian People's Party in the government and accept a liberalist argument for the policy to be pursued. It's never happened before in that party's history. That is, of course, the price that the Christian People's Party must pay for having entered such a clear Right and Advance Party-dominated government. We heard earlier this evening the Mayor's argument, which was surprisingly clear. She equated the production of care and health with entrepreneurship and industrial production. It is, in my opinion, a very talking example of what the Christian People's Party must now accept as premise. My view of the Christian People's Party has always been that they have been a welfare party. It has been a party that has been willing to create well-being for the sake of the community. The most important difference and the historical dimension we are experiencing today is that it is now being abandoned. I don't hear any protests. That's why I think I have reason to say this. In the extension of this, the effects of the privatisation line, which has been illuminated by a lot of people, come. But there is one side to this I would regret. It is that the non-profit organisations, which have significantly contributed to health and care production in Norway for very many years, now have to give up. It's not just something I'm saying. They say it on their own. They're out of competition by the big companies. They have to get away from the business they've had. The part of ideal Norway, which has meant so much to so many, will gradually be phased out due to the liberalistic development. It must be heavy for the Christian People's Party. And since nothing is defended and nothing is said as an alternative to the premises that the right parties make for this part of the Norwegian social development, I believe I have the basis to say this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e3827	We've got a government statement with a lot of good politics. I am particularly proud of what the four non-socialist parties have done in the field of drug policy. I am very pleased that the work that these parties started together, namely the escalating plan for the drug field, has now been continued in the Granavolden platform. The escalation plan has provided a historic rise in the drug field through both early interventions, proper treatment and good follow-up. Last night, a new report from Fafo showed that the plan led municipalities to develop their services in line with their objectives. Among other things, we have has grown by nearly 2,000 years in municipal mental health and drug services. It's marked out in the municipalities. It had to be a non-socialist government to present the most progressive drug reform of the ages. As a result of the drug reform, there is also a great deal of change in our view of drug addicts. To meet someone with moral considerations is to meet them with condemnation. That's rarely a good starting point to help the person get a better life. The government shall implement a drug reform to ensure that addicts are met with the dignity they deserve. We shift responsibility from the justice sector to the health sector. The government will strengthen treatment and aftercare in the field of drug and mental health, develop a strategy against overdose deaths and introduce a package of treatment for drug use by 2020, where drug-using facilities immediately range from detoxification to treatment. There is little doubt that the policy of Norway and several countries with us has been wrong in the area of drugs. I am therefore very pleased that the government is now moving forward with this incredibly important work for a more dignified and humane drug policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e3841	The country has a new government based on the common values of the four bourgeois parties. The goal of the government is for people to live free and independent lives. We believe that good communities are built from below, and that people who are shown trust take responsibility. Norway is a society with small differences, trust between people and a high level of security. It's our job to take care of this social capital. The government will strengthen the important communities and build society from below by spreading power and giving individuals, families and communities the opportunity to govern their own lives, and to shape their own future. We have to cheer up those who create the jobs, and at the same time include more. There is a link between profitable enterprises and safe jobs. If enterprises are weakened, jobs are weakened and well-being in the long term. The inclusion period was started in 2018, and it is now continuing with full force. More and more actors are opening the doors and lowering the thresholds into the workplace. Everyone should get a seat. Recently, Emily got a job at Scandic in Stavanger, through the project HELT MED under the direction of the Foundation SOR. I was so lucky to be there when she signed the contract, and the joy of signing a contract of employment is well recognizable to most people – there is something about the feeling of mastering. The management at Scandic was brilliantly pleased with Emily. She had full control of the restaurant and served customers in a good mood. I asked her how she was going to celebrate the big day, and she answered in cash: I'll go for a walk and hear 'When I smile' for the full stew. That's the value of work. Everyone should get a seat. Linda Eye on the Jären has also found its place. Her vision is to create a way into society for those who are outside. She calls it normalizing madness. Linda was admitted to psychiatric care for nine years, and she was sentenced below and home by the health services. Today she has said of herself the disability and is now running the company from victim to warrior, and she has brought several warriors to the team. Common to all is that they have user competence, but it must be translated into experience competence. In cooperation with Nav Rogaland, she will, through the project Motor with meaning, help 20 young people with mental challenges back into work or activity. They're just going to have to be "mock on motorcycles," like we're saying on the Jären. The government honors social entrepreneurs like Linda, because they're an important part of inclusion. For everyone is going to have one place. The government is now working on solving the major challenges facing Norway. It has to be created more, so that there is more to share. The core of the Norwegian model is high employment, well-being for all and well-organised work. This government shall continue to take care of it. For everyone should have a place in our society, and everyone should be sure that society also stands up.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e3860	The fight against negative social control has many similarities with the struggles of the labour movement and the women's movement has fought and won. It is the struggle for freedom to choose who we are, to love whom we want, and to become what we want. The fight against social control is the story of Mona, who is forced to go with the veil. It's Jibril, who dreams of becoming an actor, but is forced to become an engineer. And it's Leyla, who can never tell about her girlfriend, Rita, in fear of losing the family. Negative social control creates difficult family relationships, creates insecure young people, creates poorer societies. If we're going to be able to create a society where everyone's free, we have to look at the reasons why someone's not free. Often it is the parents and families who exercise the negative social control, who shut the girls in the girls' room, who shut them out of the world. The Fafo report on social control shows that negative social control decreases the longer parents live in and the more they become part of Norway. In families where it was totally forbidden to talk about a girlfriend for a big sister, little sister now has a visit by her girlfriend Ole. We have to give people the opportunity to evolve and become part of the Norwegian community, give parents the tools they need, and clearly tell them what we as a society expect when it comes to raising children without negative social control. The most important thing we can do to combat negative social control is to strengthen integration in Norway. For us in the Workers' Party, the way to the Norwegian community is through getting to work. We have to use the tools we know to get people to work. We need to strengthen the use of wage subsidies. We need to use more education as labour market measures. Yes, we need to ensure and strengthen our skills both on the way to work and in work. The dream of free life in Norway cannot be stopped by not getting the opportunities you need from you and your family. When the family does not accept who you are, society will stand there as a community and accept you. The dream of free life in Norway is to facilitate society. Everyone who comes to Norway is going to be part of our big community. Then the question is: is this government going to deliver, or will it do as it did before – be backward and less offensive to help those who are subjected to negative social control?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e3883	The political platform from the government party shows a clear direction for privatisation and centralisation of our public health system. Last January, the Hjelmeng Selection came forward with its report on measures to provide a level playing field for public and private operators, and this has been closely followed up in the Granavolden Platform, which stands out as a pure privatisation plan for the welfare sector. A free user choice scheme shall apply to municipalities according to the model from Sweden. Free treatment options in hospitals should be expanded. Both parts mean a strong privatisation and weakening of our public health system. For the new government, there is clearly no difference between producing welfare services and producing other goods and services. Unfortunately, this competition policy is also a good recipe for dissuading the ideal providers. One reduces Norwegian municipalities to market participants to compete with private individuals to provide health and care services to the inhabitants, paid by the country. But are welfare services really a store? Do we want a health care system that treats diagnosis, or one that treats human beings? Norwegian public health services do not need any more competition policy and more privatisation. She needs a lead and a trust reform where a bet on the people in the first line service. This is the Central Party's option for the renewal and strengthening of the public sector. Norwegian patients do not ask for a choice between several private providers; they ask for good public services in the vicinity of where they live. They will be close to emergency services, ambulances and local hospitals, and they will require quality in this supply. It is quite possible to do so, but then the government has to move the focus from competition and privatisation to bet on public health. Norwegian health care is based on trust. The hospital strike in 2016 was a wake-up call. He exposed a crisis of confidence in the Norwegian health system. Therefore, the government should be concerned that Norwegian hospitals are today organised and rented in a way that does not take professionals seriously. However, the health model is protected in the government platform, although three out of four government parties are opposed to it. The Christian People's Party, the Left and the Advance Party should have made sure that the government provided a platform where hospitals were placed under public administration and popular government, where real urban rental was introduced in all hospitals, so that everyone could add to the who was their closest boss. It is that the public health service tolerates competition, but what they do not tolerate is a government that believes that healthcare is a store, and that has the ultimate goal of turning the public sector into a market. Such a competition policy affects those for whom health care is available, i.e. patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e3894	The new government platform states that integration policy should be pursued and that the integration strategy adopted before Christmas should continue to apply. That's good news, to succeed in the integration work is one of the most important societal tasks of our time. This field affects the daily lives of more than 750,000 people in our country: their prospects of learning Norwegian, qualifying for Norwegian work and finding a job, for the children to get good schooling, friends and participate in leisure activities – in short, for new citizens to find the way into Norwegian society as participants and build understanding and loyalty bonds to the values on which we build our society. Sometimes I'm a little surprised at how late in the discussions this perspective comes when we discuss poverty issues and working life. After listening to the Labour Party here today, for example. Jonas Gahr Støre's main posts, where integration was not mentioned, or his questions to the Prime Minister on low pay and working conditions, struck me that it might be convenient for the Workers' Party to look past the immigration perspective and integration policy when labour and poverty are brought up. In fact, lack of integration results is a major part of the explanation of many social policy issues and issues related to low pay and working conditions. If we are to find good policy solutions in several of these areas, we must therefore draw the integration perspective. If not, we'll just discuss half the picture. And we have to do something, because the statistics speak their clear language. Too few come to work — and too late, and the proportion of immigrants in social budgets is too high. Therefore, through the Government Platform and the Integration Strategy, the government initiates a strong uplift in order to outsource a different course. The main approach is to shorten the path from a refugee to a worker. Through work, we give our new citizens self-respect and ability to take care of themselves and their families. Here is the key – a first important prerequisite for success in the further integration work. If we are to achieve this, we need to strengthen Norwegian training and help immigrants to qualify for the Norwegian labour market. In integration policy too, the Right’s policy is based on seeing the individual. We want an integration policy that provides flexibility and opportunities for tailoring, in order to better build on the personal assumptions and backgrounds of individual immigrants in the approaches taken through the introduction programme or in other contexts. The integration strategy describes a fifty concrete proposal that the majority government can now put to work. It will be good for people who are going to root new lives in our country, and it will be good for Norway, who will get more contributors to a safer society with more power to build tomorrow's welfare.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e3909	For an amazing country we live in, with forward-looking inhabitants who for generations have laid stones and made sure that they all, most of us today, have a good and safe life. No matter what governments have been, we can conclude that Norway is a good country to live in. So maybe we could get back and think a little bit about the old days, about the local store on the corner, which maybe didn't have the largest selection, but it was now there, and it created a kind of mood and a nice atmosphere in the local environment – from nine to five – or at the Post office, because people sent both cards and letters to each other, and those who didn't send letters to each other, would like to get one from a public office, or maybe one from the Telewerk in response to the application for how many weeks or months they could expect it to go before they installed a fixed phone. But people were largely satisfied. People probably needed a little less before. And people might also take a little more responsibility for themselves and their family before. But then the world goes forward. People are probably demanding a little more today. New solutions have developed, and the future will provide both more opportunities and perhaps greater challenges. The alternative to development is standstill. If countries around us develop, if business elsewhere develops new solutions and new products while we stand still, we will quickly experience a decline. Just like that, there are political objectives. If we don't follow and take care to develop a policy for the future, provide a policy that allows people to invest time and resources and create new, innovative jobs, with a tax policy harmonised with countries around us, yes, then our children in 20-30 years will not experience the same security – or joy – at school, work or old age as we do today. That's why this government statement is so important, because we know that stamina leads to a decline, and decline is something today's government doesn't want. We heard today the Labour Party leader in his post trying to say that the government will create differences between people with several private providers in health and welfare services. But it is with the Labour Party's policies that we experience differences. The Progress Party wants a diversity where the state pays, where people can choose for themselves where and by whom they should have offers, regardless of whether it is a private provider or a public provider. But with the Labour Party's policy, it's the public thing to decide who's to be offered. So if you're not satisfied and you want to pick something else, you have to pay for it. It is therefore the Workers' Party which discriminates against us, not us. We want more people to offer their services, and the state to pay and let the population choose. That is what we call good welfare in the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e3920	In a world where many countries experience political instability, in Norway we have a multi-territorial government that stands together about the value of building society from below, about spreading power, about giving greater freedom to the individual and community. Our most important task is to take care of Norway as the world's best country to live in. The platform responds to these challenges. We have to change to keep going. In a time of conversion, we also have to take care of the glue in our society, that we have little differences, that we are future-optimists, and that we are a society with opportunities for everyone. We – the people who live here – are the greatest value for our country. We're going to solve things together,' said the representative Jonas Gahr Støre earlier today. He talked about the community, a word that should bear witness to cohesion, inclusion and security. But how does the red-green community become when they reaffirm the right to define who is cold, who is hot, who is allowed to be inside, and who must be outside? The left side makes the rhetoric mess up to solve the problem. A solid public sector requires high value creation in the private sector. Health is in itself a cross-sectoral activity. Ensuring good health and quality of life for all will include everything from poverty issues and inclusion to the prevention of lifestyle diseases, traffic accidents, drug abuse — just to name a few. Every 10 Norwegians work today in the defined health sector, most of them in the state, in the municipality or in public owned businesses. Here health differs greatly from many other industries by the fact that the public also makes up the majority of the market. Health and well-being is an increasing public expenditure item, but there are also market opportunities for Norwegian enterprises, if they are allowed to contribute. When ‘the private’ is used as a shell word in the debate on welfare, it is actually harmful. Founding and innovation is not just about technical solutions, it is also about service development. We need individuals and businessmen who have ideas about how the services can be even better.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e3935	We are many who are concerned about working life and how the framework conditions for the labour force will become part of this government. On the one hand, the government statement says that organised labour is important, on the other hand, a right to organised labour by not pointing to anything at all in order to contribute positively to the level of organisation. Government policies will thus weaken fundamental pillars such as tripartite cooperation and the strong position of workers in Norwegian working life. We're going to competition, out on offer. The government doesn't do anything to make it easier to organize. The truth is, it's going to be more expensive to be professionally organized. In addition, the government will continue the ABE reform. This is pure cheese needs, which will be implemented in the public sector and in reality turns out to be pure welfare. Workers must run faster and do more, with fewer people, without further leading to smart efficiency. What is good is that it says that the Labour Inspectorate should be strengthened. But they too must be guided by this ABE reform. It is not easy to believe that the Work Inspectorate will actually be strengthened. When one looks at the state budget for this year, for example, one sees that one gives with one hand – and takes with the other hand. And then one of the strengths, when the little strength that actually came, doesn't even make up for the long-term cuts of the ABE reform. The Labour Inspectorate consists largely of good workers, who check things very carefully, report and on behalf of the government try as hard as they can to ensure that we have a safe working life. To me, it is a mystery how the Labour Inspectorate can carry out more controls, get rid of a larger part of the unprofessional labour market and social dumping with fewer added and tighter budgets. In fact, it's not easy to believe anything other than that this government actually has no ambition to drop down on a larger part of the black money that's in circulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e3946	Good infrastructure makes it easier to live and create values. This sentence I believe all of the Storting agrees with. I also think we can agree that it's wise to use digital solutions to simplify people's everyday lives. It shines good with such statements. But what does it really mean when the Right Party government, with the Left Party and the Christian People's Party stuck in the backseat, uses such statements as shiny paint around the policy they're running forward? What do we see when there's a little scratch on the surface? We see that the state route requested by the Centre Party and a number of other actors has become a ‘assessment’ in the next NTP. The centre party proposed a county road program, because we know that a lot of the fish, milk, meat, timber and the power-intensive industry come from a place along a county road. And we can notice that the Granavolden platform is full of restrictive words, such as ‘assess’ and ‘ review’. It's words without obligations, words that are actually completely without vision and will. If the Right Party and the Advance Party really want to invest in the county roads, those representatives could only participate in the county road programme that we proposed, or they could have voted in favour of the Central Party's draft budget, which is set at over 9 billion. more than the government of district policy. We know that this would lead to better county roads, because county municipalities have a focus on ways of making value. The center party will continue to point to what the government is doing, not what it says. We will point to the centralization, which will continue, perhaps tried better hidden through bureaucracy, businesses and governments. When the Post is going to adapt to the changed demand, we see what that means. Non-resident drivers, unfamiliar with winter driving, shall drive their vehicles in Norway for 30 kroner per hour to the driver. People on the outskirts get their mailboxes moved far away from where they live. Governments take on hearing protection and later act as if the protests are about bills that do not arrive soon enough. The Prime Minister said yesterday that the government would facilitate access to the Internet for all citizens, but the government platform uses the word ‘dwelling areas’ for areas where coverage is to be provided. And there's nothing about everyone having access to high-capacity networks. The Prime Minister has to tell people how many people have to live in an area before it can be defined as a residential area. Do farmers get broadband in the middle of the valley with high capacity?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e3959	Today I thought it might be good to refer to Trygve Bratteli's words: We understood the time we lived in, and gave answers the people believed in. The Solberg government just understands the time we live in, and provides answers to the challenges and opportunities facing our society. Bratteli's words come to his right with us. The main objective of the government is to ensure a sustainable welfare society by transforming the Norwegian economy, creating growth and more jobs, building infrastructure throughout the country, promoting a green transition and ensuring our country's more legs. The working party calls for enthusiasm. Well, I can say that it's absolutely amazing to be part of a civil plural government, and to the Christian People's Party: warmly welcome them! In several areas, our country is in a break-up period, and there is a need for a policy that is offensive to the challenges. If we are to have the best welfare arrangements and be the happiest people in the world in future, we must take some strategic action. I'm very impressed by the fact that civil policy is giving visible results, that new road sections are being improved and secured, and that tunnels, bridges and road surfaces are being upgraded and maintained. I'm slipping over a business that's been throwing itself over the green shift and developing new technologies and new jobs that come to the benefit of community, country and world. I'm slipping over people who buy new electric cars because they see that there's a gain for themselves and for the climate. Farmers and fishermen clearly state that they want to participate and do their part for the climate and the environment, because they – perhaps most of all – clearly see the consequences of climate change and sea pollution. I'll cheer them up. The district industries are no environmental sinks, on the contrary, they go to the front. The opposition said that the government's policy is not appropriate for the districts. I can report that there is so much going on in District Norway, and the platform we are debating today provides ample room for further growth and development in Norway as a whole, not least through good district policy. It's the sum of all the good forces in Norway that make me optimistic for the future. Poor lay-up of parts of our country is completely unnecessary. The content of the government statement builds on sustainable welfare societies, a solid platform that sees challenges, but which may provide the right tools to create opportunities for individuals in the city and built throughout our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e3976	I would like to begin by welcoming the Christian People's Party to the government. Following eleven budgetary agreements and many joint decisions, the parties Right, Advance Party, Left and Christian People's Party have good experience in finding solutions together. In the election we were given renewed trust, and now it is our task to manage it for the best of the country. So now we're going to do it together in government. One of the most important bets for the non-socialist government is to do more for the climate. Even if the emissions go down, we're not going to give up there. We have to take care of the world and only have the time and the way to do it. That's why the government is tightening up climate targets, and that's why we're going to build a modern green industry in Norway and make our businesses more competitive. The government strengthens research, Innovation Norway and Enova, and it produces concrete results. For example, Hydro at Karmøy got 1.5 billion. kr in support and now produces the world's purest aluminium. Norcable, who makes power cables of aluminium from Karmøy, is now developing 15 pst. more energy-efficient cables. The era in Sauda is transforming excess heat from its melting plant into electricity and heat corresponding to 15,000 households. These are examples of enterprises that go from word to word and that lead in the green transition with good help from the government's climate action. In addition to good arrangements, the government has set up the Nysnø Climate Investment AS renewable fund in Stavanger, the energy capital. They shall invest in solutions that contribute to reducing climate change emissions. The government has announced in the platform that investment capital will be stepped up annually, and only in the government budget for next year will efforts be doubled. The largest opposition party used last week to create unpredictability for our largest and most important industry. That's not the way to go. Norwegian oil and gas will continue to contribute to safe jobs and well-being and will compete with dirty coal power. At the same time, we must – and we must – impose stricter climate requirements during production and requirements for the use of best available technologies. Together with the industry, we are going to develop carbon flow and storage technologies. It will be essential to reduce emissions in all Norwegian industries. Together, we're going to achieve the climate goals, but then we're going to have to create more green jobs, and with this government, we're going to be on a rough course there.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e3990	Our mission as elected representatives of the Norwegian economy is to take care of Norwegian interests; it is to stand up for Norwegian workers; it is to stand up for the interests of Norwegian companies; it is to ensure growth and value creation throughout Norway. Unfortunately, in meeting this, we have a government that contributes to the very opposite. One increases the tax on ordinary workers, commuters have been tightened in their terms in the round after the round. Those who live away from their family for longer periods of time, who live in a wreckage, have been taxed more, the seafarers have been taxed more, and now bus drivers are also going to be taxed more. And this comes at the top of the fact that very many of these workers work in practical professions where there is already strong pressure on pay and working conditions through free movement from other countries. One has a majority that increases the taxes on Norwegian jobs, in the food industry, in travel, and the taxi industry, which experienced a tax return through the budgetary procedure last year. And we have a majority and a government that sells Norway bit by bit. While this debate is in progress, there is an intense struggle about the ownership of Oslo Stock Exchange. A 200-year history of an independent national exchange, which has protected Norwegian business and Norwegian interests in a good and important way, may be over if a seller to a foreign stock exchange group, and unfortunately it is a completely passive government so far. One does not hear a word from the Prime Minister about the value of caring for Oslo Børs, one does not hear a word from the Minister of Finance, the government parties would not hold a debate. And that exchange – yes, we are not a major power in the world, but we have an exchange that is the largest in the world on sea food, which is also among the largest on energy, on shipping, and which has served Norwegian business throughout Norway in a very important way. What the government has as its responsibility under Norwegian law is to stop the kind of raid against the stock exchange that we have experienced only in recent weeks. But not only that: one should contribute to a strategy to strengthen strategic ownership on the stock exchange so that it can develop for the future, for example. by purchasing from the public funds or other strategic owners on the stock exchange. That's where the government can contribute. A strategy is needed for Norwegian interests, for Norwegian business and for Norwegian workers. That's what the Center Party will do.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e4005	First, I can begin by welcoming the Christian People's Party to the government. I look forward to good cooperation. And then I'm very happy that there are four female party leaders. You're a model for many women. The right went to the elections in 2013 to create equal opportunities for all, and the government platform in 2019 is much about this. Our parties have a common desire to create a better society. So Norway does not become a colder society under this government. I don't think half the Norwegian people want a bourgeois government because they want a colder Norway. I think – on the contrary – the voters see that health cows are getting shorter and that more and more people are coming out to work. They can also see that the number of homeless people is falling sharply, that the number of health care professionals in school is increasing, and that more people with drug problems and mental problems are getting faster help. With the Right in Government, users are given greater freedom and more control over their own everyday lives, and we have introduced free user choice, which means that over 10,000 people are given freedom of choice in the treatment offer – not Swedish states, but Norwegian patients’ rights. We have introduced user-driven personal assistance, and it is a welfare reform that the Workers' Party has not been able to implement when they have been in government for eight years, but which we spent only a year and a half to get in place. In the platform, we underline that this right to user-driven personal assistance is about equal opportunities to participate in society, and that justice is about including people in our society, and that it is a gender equality measure. Children shall also have equal opportunities to participate in leisure activities, and all children shall receive a leisure card which may be used to pay the quota for children’s and youth activities. I think that's very good, and it happens under a bourgeois government. I think everyone in this room has the heart in the right place, and that they have a desire to make life better for most people and want a positive development across the country, but the social debate doesn't reflect this at all. Policy is replaced by rhetoric, polarist rhetoric, which is divisive. All politicians have a responsibility to contribute to a good climate of debate, including here, so that we can help citizens to make informed choices. Then we have to have a fact-based debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e4018	It is a pleasure that in the Granavolden platform there is agreement on action for something as important as ensuring the safety and development of children. Proper development is achieved by ensuring that all children have the opportunity to learn Norwegian. It is therefore important to identify this as early as possible. Therefore, a mandatory language test is now provided for in the four-year check. Sexual mutilation, violence and abuse are still difficult to detect in children, and health and school health are central to their follow-up to mother, father and child from pregnancy and on into adulthood. Today, all health centres and school health services are calling for regular controls from the child to be 0 to 10 years old. I believe that society has a special responsibility to follow up the most vulnerable, and municipalities should have the obligation to follow up all families who choose to keep their children away from public health check. But today, families can use religion or culture as an excuse not to face health checks at school or health stations. Mandatory health check has been an important matter for the Progress Party for a long time, and it is a pleasure that there is now a common understanding and willingness to do so. In the smoking fresh platform, this is now a fact. It shall be mandatory to follow-up children who are absent from age-related health checks, irrespective of their cause. Children growing up in Norway must be safe and seen, but to be able to catch them, closer monitoring is required. Therefore, I hope that we all see the importance of following up on children who are not subject to age-related health controls – and not least that children who are at risk of alienation due to poor Norwegian knowledge are caught up at an early stage, as is established in this platform.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e4031	I want to start by congratulating all of us with a civil majority government. I look forward to using this room in the future to discuss and adopt important political issues that will ensure a safe and sustainable welfare society, that we will have a majority for a policy that will help create more jobs, which will allow more people to get work, and that more people will be included in society. For me as a politician, it is important to be in touch with those who create jobs and those who are affected by political decisions taken in this room. And I get a completely different picture from the one that the Central Party politicians in particular spread. Last morning, I heard Battle Violence Vedum on the NRK Nordland stubbornly claim that the construction of foreign tables is the result of an increase in electricity prices. NVE professionals claimed in the exact same interview that the foreign tables were important for Norwegian consumers and for Norwegian industry. It would have been okay if Battle Violence Vedum had taken into account that it was his own Vice-Chairman, then oil and energy minister Borten Moe, who signed the agreement on the construction of foreign tables. No, he continues his polarized level of debate. Furthermore, we hear from the Central Party representatives who travel around the country that the EEA Agreement, no, we can just scrape it. Last Friday, I visited Elkem and Celsa Nordic in Rana, the company that employs hundreds of people, and which is an important job in the region and for the country. Trustees also attended the meeting. Both from the management and from the trustees, the message was clear: the EEA Agreement is crucial to ensuring competitiveness and job security. Even doubt as to whether the agreement could threaten this industry, expressed both the director and the trustee. But once again, we hear that the Central Party representatives seem to know better and continue to spread their disagreements around the EEA Agreement and thereby contribute to creating uncertainty about important district jobs. For the Nordic resource group, which largely relies on exports to the EEA countries, I am pleased that the government platform determines that the EEA Agreement should be the support block for Norwegian jobs and value creation. Another important area is the fantastic transport effort that is also taking place in the north. The fact that the platform is so clearly showing that this will continue in the future is good. The government sees the relationship between trade and economic development, particularly in District Norway. This is important not only for business but also for people to be safe wherever it may be. In conclusion, I am very pleased that the cooperation agreement is also ready for Altin to be further developed as a platform, just to continue the efforts on business simplification.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e4046	At the beginning of this article and after having heard the statements from both the position and opposition in this regard, in connection with the treatment of the previous budget, in speeches of the throne and in connection with at least two government platforms, I am tempted to begin with a question to the President: « Same procedure as every year?» The President shall be allowed not to answer. That would not be in line with parliamentary labelling. «Self procedure as every year, James.» It's as surprising as this sentence comes every little Christmas, that today we're talking about the way we've done in the course of the day. From black paint to glossy pictures – well, well. Let me at least grab hold of a few things that are said here today, and as I feel it is right to correct. Firstly, it is said that we have become more dependent on the oil industry. That's not right. Whoever said it was the party leader of the Center Party, Battle Force Vedum. Every year he was in government with the other red-green comrades, the revenues from the oil industry in total were significantly higher in this country than they are now. We were more dependent on income at the time. In fact, the country's share of these revenues in the last year was about 50 pst. higher than today. What the representative, Mr. Schlagsvold Vedum, says is wrong. It's also part of the logic behind what's being said about power and power supplies. Let me at least take one thing: when you talk about the power bills rising a little bit, it seems like you've forgotten what you did in the previous government, considering the investments in the network, which have made the majority of my electricity bill today is rent and rent, not electricity. So when the power has increased 100 pst. on my account, my power bill has increased by 15 pst. That's the situation we've met. There is no catastrophic increase, but it can be heavy enough for the individual, and we have to take that into account, and we have to be prepared to do something about it, if it should develop further negatively. It was said by Terje Aasland that more effort was to be made on industry and the opportunities we have. Yeah, I guess so. We have seen from both the Labour Party's electoral campaign and their budget arrangements that in the last budget they took out more money than they put in for a new investment in business. So you took more from business than you put in. This means, for example: that in the case of a few of the aid schemes that were outlined there and which were to be increased, twice as much was included in the aid schemes, in order to require 50 pst. participation, as required by those arrangements. So that means that business would have to pay three times for the one time they got back. It's not industrial policy, and there had not been any more jobs since it had been 15 billion. kr higher tax level today either.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e4067	Last week the charge from the Workers' Party was that the Right had laid the ground for the Christian People's Party. Today the charge is that we conduct recognisable Right-wing policy. I just interpret it as that there are actually four parties that have got each of our footprints on a good statement. I think people are seeing through the Workers' Party today when they're drawing a strawman's government, because I've been to kindergartens with children who previously couldn't afford to attend, but now get free core time. I have met addicts who have not been able to stand one month extra in a treatment queue. I have met cancer patients who have experienced an unspeakable security through the course of cancer packages. Yesterday we got numbers that show that the bullying goes down. Yesterday we got numbers that show that the absence of high school stumps. This means something. When it comes to renewing special education, ensuring that all children can participate in a leisure activity, or reforming the introduction programme, it means something – especially for those of us who are slightly above average engaged in securing a welfare society with high trust and good community. This is called ‘social school policy’, and it is not necessarily about appropriations. It's usually about something as difficult and simple as student vision. The most unsocial thing we can do is have ambitions on behalf of certain children or use the students' background, behavior, sex or diagnosis to explain weak results and lack of mastery. It is never done with evil will in Norwegian school, but it is done too often. I am convinced that all children, including the restless boys on the back row or the children who have been given special education decisions, can learn, master and even can as well as Norwegian, math and English subjects if you provide adapted, varied and active education. The solution to some students struggling with basic skills is not, as the left-hand side too often makes sense, to downgrade our ambitions and let these students do anything but read, write and calculate. The solution is to give adapted follow-up and build a layer around the student. The Labour Party and I have one thing in common: like me, the Labour Party has become more and more near-sighted in recent years. I have solved the problem by buying new lenses; the Labour Party, on the other hand, is struggling today to look ahead and respond to the long-term challenges facing Norway, whether there are questions of value creation, new skills requirements or smarter public sector organisation. Criticizing individual cases without having an alternative direction for Norway may work if one is to top up a poll, but it does not work if one is to rule a country. Instead of standing outside and criticising, we now have four non-socialist parties that take responsibility and cooperate. The result is a statement that both shows a clear direction for Norway and responds to the challenges we face in five and ten years’ time. And believe it or not -- it makes me quite enthusiastic.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e4082	We from Finnmark are famous for speaking straight from Lera, and in these time of murmuring you might say cod. Our bourgeois, blue prime minister stood here in the hall yesterday drawing a picture of himself that resembled the emperor's new clothes most closely. The Prime Minister said: ‘The government’s political platform is based on values shared by the four government parties. In particular, it is expressed in the opinion that: a good society must be built from below good communities are created when decisions are taken close to those to which they relate’;» We in Finnmark are amazed. How can the Prime Minister, who by centralised coercion and in the best dictatorial style smoothly overrun the referendum there as many as 87 pst. of Finnmark's population said no to coercion with Troms, characterizing it as building society from below? The Prime Minister must have done saltomortal speech when these sentences came on paper. How the government’s dictatorship can be marketed with such ‘new talk’ can only be wondered about. We Finnmarkinger calls a spade a spade: the Prime Minister is not telling the truth. Closeness to decisions: it is completely incomprehensible that the government, by shutting down Finnmark as its own county, should give more proximity and democracy to the people of Finnmark. But the Prime Minister's imagination is not over. Here are a number of bottles that the people have been served: ‘A good district policy shall make it possible to live, work and operate an active business in both cities, agglomerations and districts. The government will facilitate living communities and growth throughout the country.’ In Coast-Finnmark we live on the fish. The government does not lift a finger to get to the youth in the fishing industry. On 25 January we heard about Einar in 25 years, which was allocated one in 10 recruitment allowances. He was assigned a future in the fishing industry. He quit the job and gave up the school to become a coastal fisherman. Then he lost the quota and now stands on the bar hill. The Central Party expects the Minister for Fisheries to take care of this and to take care of Einar. The centre party works for more fish for the coastal fleet. Einar needs to know that he has the support of the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e4106	The President will ask the representative Geir Adelsten Iversen to consider using words other than ‘flakes’, even if he wishes to speak ‘right from the left’.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e4111	The representative of Gruvan said in his statement earlier today: ‘Don’t look back, that’s not what you’re going to do.’ It’s a good and relevant quote today. It is a great milestone when we have now received a bourgeois, or non-socialist, majority government – a government that aims to make people live free, independent lives, a government with a strong belief that people who are trusted also take responsibility, a government that sees that we are dependent on good, functioning communities, with common values and institutions that guarantee legal certainty, privacy and freedom of expression, and that build trust between people. There are four different parties that have worked towards a common government platform, and I am proud of the willingness to cooperate and the willingness to find good solutions that our parties have demonstrated in this process. It is in stark contrast to the opposition parties, who have also demonstrated in this debate how fundamental their disagreements are in the major and important issues and which appear without clear government options. Even though the four parties are different, we have many common values that it's easy for us to agree on. Our parties are all the characteristics of that we base our values on a recognition that society is built from below. The Granavolden platform is well-founded in a human vision underpinning the unique intrinsic and inviolable self-esteem of individuals. We have a common belief that we all have the same human value, despite different starting points, assumptions and attributes. I'm glad that our four parties share the goal of a society with opportunities for everyone, where the freedom to live their own lives is guaranteed only through a fair and sustainable welfare society, where there are abilities and efforts rather than background and origin that count. ‘This political project is not new’, said the representative Gahr Støre in his statement this morning. No, it's just supposed to be missing, you ask me. After working together for five years in different ways, the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Advance Party and the Right are now building a sustainable welfare society in which we ensure that more people come to work, including everyone in society and ensure that we achieve the climate goals. It was just to be lacking that the platform should not be recognizable. For me, it's a quality sign and clearly shows that these four batches are both effective and manageable, as opposed to what the opposition now appears.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e4124	The yellow vests are the symbol of distrust in France. The yellow vests make the establishment shiver. Support in the population is about 70 pst. This is not surprising. The OECD report How is life in France from November 2017 says that only 10 pst. of the adult population feel that they have something to say about what they are doing. No authority has so little confidence in the entire OECD area. France is big and important. President Macron is running on turbo speed with his reforms. After many years with a government budget deficit well above the EU border of 3pst. the sovereign debt is formidable. The taxes of the richest are not to be increased. The party's sister party in France has been severely weakened. The Socialist Party, which is close to the Workers' Party politically, has about 5 pst. digestion. European trade union movement is very concerned about the forthcoming elections to the European Parliament in May, where, according to the polls, right-wing populist parties will be greatly increased. Social insecurity is causing social unrest, which is now gradually causing political unrest. In France, unemployment is twice the average in the OECD region. The free movement of workers, capital, goods and services across borders provides the basis for increasingly weaker popular governance of national parliaments. The EU institutions do not have the power or the common economy to replace this failure. The EU countries are characterised by greater uncertainty. The trade war between the United States and China reinforces this. Dispute resolution in the WTO is almost paralysed. Government debt is much higher than in the financial crisis of 2008, and in Norway the gross debt of private households is above 220 p.p. of the total income. This is more vulnerable than leaders dare to think about. It is in this situation that our new bourgeois government says in the opening chapter that ‘Norway should be a driver of freer trade’. The centre party is engaged in regulated trade between countries within the WTO. While the government is systematically working within the EEA Agreement to stimulate the freeest possible migration of labour, the EU institutions are now not talking about free but fair labour immigration. The international uncertainty situation is such that major rapid changes in the Norwegian economy will come from abroad. The majority of the population must therefore facilitate the fact that there is no loan-funded private consumption to ensure full employment. For the Centre Party, it is then essential to promote a long-term strategic enterprise policy with better profitability in long value chains based on our enormously important natural resources. Renewables are most important. Furthermore, we need to replace free labour immigration from the EEA area outside the Nordic region with regulated, controlled fair labour immigration. Market forces must be governed more stringently, and private personal property rights in countries must involve both rights and obligations. This gives most people security and freedom.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e4141	Police reform has never been a near-police reform. The reform has, from the start, been a centralisation reform or, as many police call it, a remote police reform. Recently, two researchers conducted a survey of police officers. 96 pst. state that the availability of the police has been poorer or is the same as before. Almost none of the respondents believe that the reform provides better resource use. These researchers had several recommendations for the politicians. The first bid was to stop calling the reform a near-police reform. Two professors at the Police College have also launched a book on the reform. The one who said: ‘The situation in Police Norway is now serious. We just have to hope that politicians wake up and do something before the situation gets even worse." The leader of the Police Union has said that the state budget gambles with the security and legal certainty of people, that it means fewer patrols where people live and behave, and fewer investigators to investigate serious crime and violence and abuse of children. Today, most police districts around the country are being cut short, something we see daily in the media – the latest in today's Sunnmørspost, where the courts and the police tell us about big cuts in the framework: ‘There are fewer cases from the police to the District Court. And when things first come, they're old. It is a pity that the judges have to lower the penalties because the treatment is slow, says Kirsti Höegh Björneset.’ There are many who have tried to say from, but nothing has been done. The government had the opportunity to create a new policy in this government platform, but they have chosen to ignore the critical situation in the police districts. When I hear representatives from the government parties continue to refer to the reform as a near-police reform, I wonder if they haven't got the news, or if they've deliberately let themselves be listened to. Criticism has been ear-catching, but then it's not the answer to keep your ears open and pinch your eye again. There will be no better policies and no better police.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e4161	It should not be such that students are given the municipality in which they live, which school they attend, which class they end up in. This is why the new bourgeois government continues to invest in knowledge and mastery at school. That is why we have focused on the competence of teachers. Each student must be seen and brought forward, regardless of background and starting point. The school must be a safe place to be. Students in a safe environment will learn more, give more of themselves and more easily share with others. The targeted investment in school and education in recent years shows that students are more present at school, learn more, finish more, grades are up, and bullying goes down somewhat. An environment where students can flourish, be themselves and enjoy going to school, is something I want for every student. So school and education must constantly evolve – and that's what this government is adding up to. We know that 5-6-year-old students have different starting points for starting school. The government wants all children to get the best possible start to school life and will therefore look at the possibilities to make school start more flexible. We know that physical activity is good – and that it can both stimulate and socialize. I have learned in the Defense that physical strength and mental health are interrelated. I therefore think it is exciting with the government's commitment to daily physical activity in the school where you connect education and physical activity. This kind of creative bet can help increase the learning capacity of many students and shake off the restlessness. The government is also taking an important step in high school by introducing English throughout the school cycle. By strengthening English, students will be better equipped to meet internationalisation both in the workplace and in higher education. Civil school policy works and will be further strengthened by this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e4178	On the day the government parties presented the government statement, I felt it almost as if my best friend had ended up in a really bad company. In school policy, SV and the Christian People's Party have had many common issues – teaching standards, guidance system for newly educated teachers, on the transition between kindergarten and school, on maintaining the self-esteem of childhood and taking care of the play place in school, on physical activity and on strengthening the standard of manning. And the Christian People's Party and the SV have been tumultuous in the separation of Norwegian teachers and, of course, the celebration of mathematics. So when the Christian People's Party chose to join the Solberg government, I had some clear expectations of what they were going to do. Unfortunately, I see a footprint in the statement of our friends in the Christian People's Party. We need to get more teachers in place to make sure that all children and young people have equal opportunities to learn, succeed and thrive. We need teachers with time and opportunity to adapt education so that children and young people with different assumptions and needs receive the instruction they need. The Government Platform does not take any new action to prevent the fact that the teaching shortage of the Right and Left State Councils in the Ministry of Knowledge has increased by 40 pst. 1.5 million hours of schooling are taught by a teacher without a qualification. Many of these come straight from high school. The new government is right to say that they will put in place some comprehensive recruitment measures. But this is little concrete and very little obligatory. And actions that today lead to teaching shortages continue with great strength and will undermine this vague goal of increasing recruitment. The Christian People's Party has been taken hostage in education policy and has not changed the unreasonable requirement of 4 in mathematics from higher education, which keeps the door shut for students with a high average character, keeps them from entering the teacher's education, nor does it recognise the competence of experienced teachers. I find it sad that the Christian People's Party has ended up in such a bad company, and I think it is sad that they have given up these demands to get more qualified teachers into Norwegian school.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e4203	There is little in this government statement on helicopter and standby in North Norway. The Central Party has fought and will continue to fight for the Defense Helicopter in the north. By removing six of the dedicated helicopters on Bardufoss, the Army is severely weakened. Helicopters are a support Army and North Norway has a great need. The Chief Army stated in January 2018 that the Army is fully dependent on helicopter support to be operationally relevant, not least by medical evacuation and tactical transport of personnel. Nevertheless, it seems that there has been a record in the matter of the government and the Minister of Defence – despite many warnings and concerns from the Defence, from the State and from the police director in Troms. This helps to put Defence in a very challenging and demanding situation. With the move the government makes up for now, Norway can be the only country in the world that has a modern army without helicopter capacity. In recent times, we have also seen that the Bell helicopters have had a significant impact on preparedness. Unfortunately, the tragic accident in Tamokdalen is a good example of the importance of the Defence helicopter in the north. We saw the importance of Bell just a few weeks ago, and we have seen the importance of preparedness in Northern Ireland in view of the challenging weather conditions that have been there. We are now seeing a government that is about to raid the entire North Norway for the helicopter, both in terms of defence, and not least in terms of preparedness. This rightly concerns a great many, and it should also concern us politicians. So we're now going to put the whole thing in the north on the side line. Today there is not a single rescue helicopter in Troms. There is no doubt that this creates a large emergency hole in North Norway. Therefore, the Centre Party is today promoting a proposal to establish permanent rescue helicopter preparedness in Troms based on Bardufoss. It's not a substitute for the Bell Helicopters. The struggle for the defence helicopter we don't intend to give in to, even though this government doesn't seem to care. I have also noticed that storage representatives from the Right in this room have been at Bardufoss for the past week and have just ordered emergency helicopters at Bardufoss. It would amaze me very much today if the Right chooses to vote against the proposal of the Central Party. Preparedness across the country is important – vital in many situations. My view and that of the Central Party is that this is one of the most important societal tasks that politicians should facilitate. It's actually about the safety and security of our citizens. Therefore, the Centre Party hopes to support that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e4218	I heard the representative of Sveinung Stensland, among others. bring forward a point in the Governmental Platform on BPA, user-controlled personal assistance. It'll be an investigation. In this case, at least the organisations of disabled people must be actively involved in the investigation group and not become statisticians. It's urgent action. Developments are not in line with Storting’s intentions with the law, and investigation must in no way become a resting place. The representative of Stensland also mentioned the point in the platform to develop and test user-driven personal relief, as in the municipality of Sola. Interestingly, during the 2019 budgetary procedure, the local government, in this exhibition window for right-wing and progressive party policy, unanimously decided to wind up the scheme. It became too expensive, and the municipal costs were the same as before. With its involvement in the government, the Christian People's Party ensures a majority for large-scale privatisation in the health and care sector, in the municipalities and in hospitals. On the Granavolden platform, the right-wing government says that they want to copy free user choice in the municipality by model from Sweden, adopted in 2008 under the Reinfeldt administration. The free choice of company is actually a more comprehensive term. More diversity, the representative of Stensland calls it. I call it increased commercialisation, increased bureaucracy and less municipal control of the services the municipality is responsible for. The scheme implies that, after a simple authorisation process, companies will be entitled to offer services such as: home services. Elders and others entitled to the service receive a number of glossy brochures from providers from whom they will then choose. Providers may withdraw at short notice, and their customers must find new suppliers, or the municipal service must take over. There is no distinction between commercial and non-profit actors, while I hear representatives from the Christian People's Party and the Right talk about increased use of ideals. Trustworthy? No, no, no. In the care service, over 80pst. of the costs of staff costs — people’s salaries and pensions. If a commercial owner is to make money, it means lower staffing, more use of unskilled, lower wages and lower pensions for employees. Research from Sweden also shows that the quality of services declines over time. It is absolutely unimaginable that the Christian People's Party has now made this the party's policy, and this is how the heads of capital forces are run. In hospitals, the government will extend the use of free treatment options. Commercial operators have been given the right to operate on behalf of the State, disconnected from official controls. The government platform says that more commercial actors should be involved in new areas of the specialist health service. The patients won the Granavolden, said Stensland. Yeah, he's about it. In any case, it has been a long time since hospitals have been budget winners unless one looks at the Workers' Party's alternative budgets in the last five years.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e4231	We have an expanded right-hand rule, but the content of the platform is not very new. We're still getting growing differences between people, between city and country, and more and more private solutions where your money book decides what freedom you have. The working party will have a stronger community, residence and equivalent services throughout the country. Now, transportation is going to be the big winner in this platform. The platform creates a zero vision for hard damage and killed in traffic – and that's very good. But then it is extremely disappointing that the platform no longer prioritizes our highways. Both the NHO, the NAF, the Landers’ Association, the County Council and the Road Traffic Information Council have all indicated that the situation is now very critical. The maturity is increasing by three billion every year. That's now 62 pst. greater chance of dying on a country road than on a national road. Half of our road network is county roads. In the same platform, the use of the most effective safety measure, i.e. route automatic traffic control, should be restricted. Both the police and the road safety authorities are wondering about such an attitude. A simple and accurate measure to reduce traffic speed and death rates therefore wants to reduce this platform. The state road service is to be modernised, and the platform says that it should ensure a decentralised offer through cooperation with private – i.e. further privatisation and district closure. In addition, the debate has broken down over the last few days on non-resident carriers. You can see that fear among those who have the way as a profession is increasing. There have been several ugly accidents, and unnecessary saves create obstacles. So we can't see that the platform in any way contributes to solving the most important challenges in transport. Unfortunately, we see more of increased labour-life crime and social dumping, less of goods on sea and track, longer planning time on transportation projects, more and more delays on passenger trains, more bureaucracy, fragmentation and fragmentation of responsibility. But still, transport is the big winner. Then one might well imagine how the other sectors feel now.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e4246	I'm very proud, most because the result of what's greater than the overall big thing, people who give their voice in a election, is actually now the majority government – with the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party. It's like in my circles, where I have friends and family as well as others who do well, and I don't always know the political point of view, I say congratulations. But with the black paint that has been today, I expect that congratulations do not come from the opposition. Although I think that futility had happened, because it's a good example for children and young people and everyone that you talk well about each other, and then we get to take the disagreement on the matter. But nothing less – we write history. History in spite of this: it gives us the opportunity for a stable governance for the country, at home as it is, not least for the individual, and it is at this golden moment that politics matters, that politics is actually up to the exam. Out in the districts, where I live, where the bus goes three times in the morning and three times in the afternoon, and where the NSB improves its route offer, there it goes, so it sucks, it goes very well. Think about it! Out in District Norway, unemployment is record low, business is flourishing, road and track are being built, and in the countryside as well. Think about it! The kids go more to school, they finish school more, it's better school results, and it's less bullying. Think about it! After five to six years with a civil government, we are now extending it to a majority government and it is getting even better. And believe it or not, but there are fewer municipalities now on the ROBEK list. Think about it! And it's especially in the countryside that it's gotten fewer. Where others are concerned about seeing restrictions out in District Norway, both the previous government and the current government – in the Granavolden Declaration, with the Right – now see the possibilities. Our district policy helps us to get just more jobs, it also builds up town and built together and provides better welfare in the face of the individual. District policy works, so it creates more jobs and better employment, which is the whole basis for us to have a welfare society. It's about making money before we spend it. And when I've heard the rhetoric here today, the greatest cohesion would be that the richest ones moved out of the country. But think about it – so the richest create jobs. You can like it or not, but it's in the scheme that welfare meets, and where we can create jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e4259	It was a great day when we got a majority government consisting of all the non-socialist parties, parties that build their policies on common, fundamental values, and that have faith that people who are shown trust also take responsibility. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party agree that society should be built from below, and that the family is an important foundation of society. Our new government consists of four different parties, and we're still going to be the parties we are, but we agree on a government platform where we're going to play each other good. And we have several common denominators: all four parties are occupied with those who struggle with their lives. We on the non-socialist side have hearts beating for the individual human being, and we have warm hearts. The left side does not have a monopoly on the heat of the heart in this country, even if they believe it. Norway is a country with small differences, and so we want it to remain. However, many families struggle with poor advice, and this is particularly difficult for the children of these families. But child poverty cannot be wiped out with a pen stroke, as one from the left expressed it so fun a few years ago. It's more complex and complex than that. The Government of Solberg addressed this challenge immediately after its accession in 2013 and a strategy plan with targeted use of different measures and support schemes has been developed to address children with the greatest needs. Free time in kindergarten for children in low-income families and the secondary school scholarship scheme are good examples of this. Now scholarships are given only to students who come from families where the total income of father and mother is low. A national scheme for the grant of child poverty is in place, which helps children and young people living in families with a weak economy to participate in at least one leisure activity, receive support for quota and equipment. The scheme also helps families to gain access to holiday experiences. The Government Platform agrees to introduce a leisure card for all children from 6 to 18 years of age who can be used to cover the participant’s fee for leisure activities. The scheme shall be non-bureaucratic and it shall be possible for the municipality to invest a local share. Freedom Norway applauds the action and would like to participate in the development of the scheme. I want to boast of my home municipality Asker, who has recently developed such an activity card, an app called A!A. In Asker, 1,300 children have downloaded the app, which provides a good overview of all leisure activities and provides cheaper prices for all children and young people who want to participate. The app is also used as a means of payment for visits to the swimming pool and bowling, for quotas, etc. Parents or Nav, the municipality, pay in on the app. Nobody stays outside, nobody gets stigmatized, and nobody knows where the money comes from on that app. I will end by saying that the government platform is a good foundation for a policy that will have a warm society, built on safe Norwegian values, where the individual will always be in the centre.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e4276	Per Away leads a civil coalition government. He used the term "taking a stake" as an image to keep the government gathering. Why did I bring this up today? Well, cracking staur is a good grip on today's government. They're not sure if the government's going in the right direction, nor what's actually on the platform. Some examples: the progress party boasts of road construction and that climate taxes should not change or affect people’s behaviour. Left shouts: No, we've had an impact when it comes to climate. Immigration: An intrusion, says the Progress Party. No, say Left and Christian People's Party. Change in abortion laws, which is indisputably a restriction of women's rights, says the Christian People's Party. What's certain is that Erna Solberg and Right set promises not to restrict women's rights aside as long as one can retain power. Then only the principle has to give way. We swallow this too, says the Left and the Advance Party. But everything now left has got cold feet, and is to have a rematch in 2021. The discussion of taxes on taxes in kind is a good picture of what we are waiting for. On questions from the Labour Party to arrange for unintended consequences, so that volunteers at cultural events were not subject to tax and reporting obligations, Siv Jensen replied that the rules were clear. On the question of bus drivers, whether the labour court had been assessed, the answer was that one is amazed that the Labour Party is asking about this, because the Labour Party is too fair a tax. Yes, the Labour Party is for fair tax, but against unintended consequences that strike the legs during voluntary efforts or give bus drivers tax notices. When the government pursues a tax policy that increases differences, it does not help to say that they are concerned about increasing differences. When the government is worried that trust in society is falling, precisely because the differences are increasing, not only does it help to say this, but it has to act. Words and actions must be linked. An overall opposition is clocky in which direction you want to go — more community, less differences, actions for those who need it the most, to name some common denominators. Then there must be a left turn of Norwegian policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e4293	Today, we know a lot about Norway as a good country to live in, among other things. because there are small economic differences between people. At least there have been small economic differences between people. And it has contributed to us being a country that has good health, public health is evenly above good. We trust each other. When people in Norway are asked if they trust the neighbor, most people say yes. There's an increasing excitement about exactly what we're doing here: our democracy, that we should be able to choose representatives who can do the best for the wider community. But now the differences between people in Norway are increasing. Just since 2008, many people today are worse off than they were ten years ago. The SSB figures show that on average the group that previously earned at least 10 pst applies. private sector workers with the lowest wages. There may be people who work with cleaning, building or serving, all of whom contribute in their own way to having good lives for others. The relationship and the figures documented by the SSB are in stark contrast to what Henrik Asheim, from the Right, said at the Political Quarter on Friday. He said, "Everybody's got a lot of growth in income and purchasing power." That's directly wrong. It's irresponsible to sit and say that kind of thing on the radio in Norway when we know that reality is the opposite. And if the reason for that misinformation is that the head of the finance committee has not got what reality is, or that he doesn't care about development -- it's anyway equally serious both. The most serious thing is that when the representative from the same party votes against the Workers' Party's proposal to ensure that more people get fixed jobs, make sure that one million Norwegians get better money by earning a pension from the first crown we earn, no matter what we work with. If you don't see the social problem, it might be easy to skip the crucial measures required. That's why we really need to take seriously the social development we see. We in Stortingen can now together support good proposals to get the differences smaller.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e4302	On the website of the Party Right, Prime Minister Solberg is quoted in an article that says: ‘It is important to avoid a trend towards ‘normal’ full-time jobs where it is not possible to live on pay.’ In the Granavolden platform: ‘The government will allow for increased use of the sharing economy in passenger transport within a regulatory framework and requirements for predictable operators.’;» In the view of the Labour Party, these two statements contradict each other, especially when we consider the policy to be pursued for the taxi industry in Norway. Several key politicians, with representatives Frölich and Nordby Lunde at the head, say that these changes to the Professional Transport Act, which has been sent to the hearing, open up to Uber’s welcome to Norway – Uber, which is illegal throughout the Nordic region. It is an undertaking without a permanent employee, without a verifiable income and with drivers who are proven to reduce income from taxation and only jobs at times when it is possible to pick up in major cities. There is a notified release on the taxi market that will lead to a taxi business with jobs that is not viable, and with opening for businesses that do not contribute either with tax credits or with the security of fixed employees. We had hoped that the new government platform had contained some formulations about taxis such as public transport. The representative Tage Pettersen accused us of counting words that went back on the platform, but there are two words that I've been looking for, and that's not on the platform, that's "taxi", and that's "droz". They've been left out this time, as opposed to the Jeleya platform. Unfortunately, it gives a bad signal to the expected legislative amendment that a majority government is now going to present to the Stortinget. The working party fears that it will be like in Denmark, from which the government has obviously taken inspiration. Drivers have now started an action against the low-wage trend in industry. The government now had an opportunity to formulate something about it, but has played out the chance. Now we can just cross our fingers and hope that the government makes sense, because this undermines a safe and strong community, as the Workers' Party wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e4322	I'm not going to claim to live in what's really district, but I can at least say as much as that if the bus had gone three times in the morning and three times in the afternoon, and the NSB got its train offer strengthened, as the representative Schou was inside, yes, then I would say that it goes so laughing in the districts. At least that's not the case for the districts where I come from. Yes, it is even a surprise sometimes if the bus goes once in the morning and once in the afternoon, but I record that we have a slightly different perspective. This is also indicative of the debate we are having here today. We have a municipal minister who says that safe communities throughout the country are a goal for this government, while the prime minister in the government statement, which the municipal minister obviously had not read himself, said: “It’s both about something as simple as being at the centre of the municipality is going to feel safe for everyone, and about having a credible defense of our country.” We agree that security is an important part of the welfare community, but that it should only be safe to travel at the centre of the municipality, is a little special. We all want to give local politicians out there the opportunity to develop the benefits they have. The problem is that they have both the tools and not least the economic muscles required — in each municipality, but also at the regionally elected level. It seems that the local authorities have become less effective. I don't think that's the case. At least I am sure that neither the health worker, the teacher, nor anyone working in the field service in any municipality's technical establishment believes that they have not become more effective lately. On the contrary, I am pretty sure that they feel that they are jumping more under this government, and in this way – at least according to economic theory – they should have become more effective. The fact that we have more efficiency in society can be a good thing if we know how to take it out wisely. This means that the individual must have the opportunity to live the good life of all communities, while at the same time providing more well-being through the public for each krona created by values out there. Then, as politicians in this room, we owe people the opportunity to live and work in the whole country, and not only in the centre or in some parts. Then we don't lay the groundwork for us to take advantage of all the amazing opportunities this country offers, or take advantage of all the wise heads that are out there.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e4340	It is true that twins have rarely been as far ahead in the political debate as they were in the run-up to the bourgeois multi-lingual government. In 2014 I got twins myself. At first there was a rather heavy message to digest. After a premature birth with another person, I was very uncertain whether we should take the chance of having more children at all. Now, number three and four. How's it going? Would they be born too early? Did we really have enough capacity to follow up twice as many children – and especially if we had extremely premature twins? Fortunately, we had a good enough economy to carry a lot of new equipment, minibus and a rebuilding of the corridor to get in with the twin cars at all. For a handful of women every year, these concerns, in which I know myself well, become too big for them to be able to carry out a twin pregnancy. About a thousand women carry twins each year. Eight women chose to remove one of the twins in 2018 – eight out of thousands. Let these women make this choice on their own. The representative Mr. Örmen Johnsen said earlier today that ‘your voice will be heard in matters that affect you’. I wish the government would help to save twins through early ultrasound rather than get rid of women's self-determination. Every year there are twins who die or are severely injured in their mother's stomach because they are affected by twin-twin transfusion syndrome, TTTS. When twins who share morcoma get TTTS, there's a blood transfusion from one to the other. Worst case, they can both die. To save these twins, we have to have early ultrasound. If this is detected by ordinary ultrasound, it's too late. The procedure ensuring the twins each part of the morgue must be carried out before week 18. This government must stop pushing twins into the question of abortion when they will not help to save twins through early ultrasound to all. State Council Skei Grande said in the line change that early ultrasound should not be prohibited. No, but those who can afford to make use of private offerings are reserved — another example of this multi-lingual government increasing the differences between people.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e4353	The Government Platform states that the government will facilitate living communities and growth throughout Norway, equivalent services throughout the country, and that there are many policies that together constitute a good rural policy. Yes, the whole intention of the district section of the platform could almost have been taken from the Center Party program. The problem is that in the last five years, policies have gone in a different direction and that there are no concrete promises in the platform about how to follow up these intentions in practice. On the contrary, we see that the reforms that centralise Norway bit by bit should continue. In order to achieve growth in District Norway, it is necessary to facilitate good communities, with housing and jobs, good municipal services and the security of the population. There shall be no uncertainty about living in the district due to the fact that services and preparedness are being moved far away from the inhabitants. Unfortunately, in the last five years we have reduced ambulance preparedness and police preparedness, and this creates insecurity. Examples of jobs that have been centralised are many, including: police, tax administration, district psychiatric centres, asylum recipients, Nav — just to name a few. Offers such as passport issuance – and now the petitions – are to be moved for miles, yes, hours away from the population, making it more difficult for people to use the services. Regional development funds, transport measures, mobile and broadband deployment — these are effective tools for developing industry in the district. I record that the Center Party has a much more ambitious policy than the government. Among the priorities of our alternative state budget were among others. 500 million. kr more to regional development funds, 400 million. kr for broadband and SEK 1 billion. kr annually to county roads. Investment in these areas is a necessary investment for business and housing throughout the country. The platform adds up to an increase in broadband. That's good, and I hope there's going to be a significant bet. I record that the government is hiding in several contexts behind the fact that it is the universities and health companies that have the authority to determine the structure. Here, there are governments that do not take responsibility for the centralisation that is taking place in these areas. The centre party wants a better distribution of state jobs. That is why we have proposed that 5,000 state jobs should be moved out over the next six years. The location must also be provided to small and medium-sized municipalities. We mean 50 pst. this relocation should take place in small and medium-sized municipalities. The creation of skilled workplaces has important ring-fences for local communities and the labour market as a whole. We have successful examples of such deployments, for example. to Leikanger and Brønnøsund.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e4366	Norway has received a Minister for Digitalisation. The Prime Minister expects cheers, but have we actually heard something today that makes us expect that it will now be different? For five years, the Right has steered the policy of digitisation in Norway, and it has been five years with a standstill and without ambitions. Was it just a government council we missed? The figures speak for themselves, and the sentence is brutal: the Digital Evolution Index sets Norway in the low rate of change group. We were busy – now we're hanging out. Norway is now being overlooked by the United Kingdom, Sweden and Denmark. The government meets with a frightening passivity. The impact on Norwegian industry is serious. 38 pst. by Norwegian ICT companies are not allowed to occupy published posts, and 70 pst. of the companies have said no to the assignment, which is among other things. leads to outsourcing and relocation of workplaces. The passivity of government prevents new growth, transformation and innovation in an important industry for the future. The consequences for people are serious. Norway has an increasing digital class distinction. Far more lonely and poor-economy families do not have access to broadband. The ones with the worst starting point are now hanging after, and if we don't grab, the differences just get bigger. We see the same thing in school. A recent Fafo report shows that there are considerable differences in the digital competence of teachers, the training of students in digital tools and the availability of digital resources. This affects the exam results of the students. The ones with the worst starting point are now hanging after. The challenges of equipping Norway for the digital revolution are enormous. It will require more study places, strategies, research and clear ambitions on what will become Norway’s niche. Therefore, it is alarming that the right-wing government is so silent about its actions. I heard only one thing in the government statement about what the government has prioritised in this area, and that is to create a new Council post. You ask me, maybe the million-dollar salary of the new state council and his new bureaucrats would have been better spent in several ICT colleges or a national strategy for artificial intelligence. Then we had at least gone a step further. The government's digital toolbox has a new government council, but unfortunately it is empty. The expectation is that it must be filled in more than empty words quickly, because we do not have time for Norway to slow down even further.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e4381	It's a precious platform government has snowcreed together. Much of what's going to get better, there'll be a broad consensus about what's good. But it will cost many billions. The problem is that they have to cut revenues at the same time. Taxes must be lowered, charges reduced. Municipalities will have their income opportunities reduced by lower taxes on property. At the same time, economic policy must be responsible and no more oil money should be used than the rule of action. So the question is, how is this going to go up? More and less inward, a spaga of the four parties has gone down to agree on a government platform. It will be difficult to get out of the spaghetti when the budgets are going up, and economic policy will satisfy the point ‘responsible and sustainable’. It's going to be a gap that economic growth won't close. Most from four parties were on the platform. There are major differences in the policies between the four parties, and compromises can quickly wipe out the profiles of the parties and turn politics into a gray, boring mass. The scheme has therefore been that all parties should have some so-called white wins. It also bears the stamp of the government platform. The problem is that in some cases one party’s blank wins are defeated by another party’s blank saying: in the climate policy, the CO2 charges must be raised, the Left, but those that are hit must be compensated, the Progress Party. In health and social policy, there are many good and sensible measures, but that cost a lot of money, the Christian People's Party, while the municipalities' ability to use the property tax to pay for this is to be strangled even more, the Progress Party. Where neither environmental taxes nor the oil fund are intended to cover costs, other plans must be made by the government. Will there be cuts in public services or higher trades? What we find is more privatisation. The right-wing administration will work so that ‘multiple private service providers can contribute more to the Community’s tasks’. But is it to be done without funding from the municipality, state and state? Nope. Here is another example of a gap between objectives and instruments: the four batches agree on ‘a zero vision for hard damage and death in traffic’, but shall limit the use of what works best, by route automatic traffic control, and allow for 120 km/h on motorways.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e4394	Energy policy is close to my heart and that of the Progress Party. We have a renewable hydropower production that means enormously for Norway's energy supply, and here the platform determines that production capacity should be further developed. We have an oil and gas sector of great importance for our country, and I am proud of what these industries do. The special oil and gas sector is an industry that we need to talk about, and we need to ensure recruitment to the industry. Now there are many who are surging with opinions about the tax ego of this industry. It's kind of gotten into being against – so-called political correctness – these days. Finally, the Workers' Party, with Espen Barth Eide, is inviting the future and asking the industry to adapt to a changing world. I don't fully understand what a person wants with this play, except to create uncertainty in Norway's main industry. For what does Barth Eide really want? Is it the climate and the consequences of emissions from the Norwegian petroleum industry that concern, or is it the increased economic risk involved in this industry? Does the Workers' Party and Barth Eide really believe that he and they are better at assessing the risks in the oil and gas sector projects than the industry itself is? The starting point is that the world's population is increasing. The world's population is actually increasing with a whole of Germany every year. At the same time, millions of people are being lifted out of poverty, where most have, or will have, access to energy. The world needs more energy and not less. 80 pst. of the world's energy mix is fossil today. If emissions are to decrease, it is a sector that needs to cut. Then we have to start with the emissions where the cuts give the most effect, and – with respect – the emissions that are not found on the Norwegian base. The government meets the future proactively and forward-lookingly, with a policy that contributes to a better climate, while the old industrial party, the Labour Party, with Barth Eide at its head, invites to a seminar in their own party to find out what they think about the lighter fusion system. I have long called for the consequence of phased out Norwegian petroleum industry. No one has managed to answer me yet. One thing is the loss of jobs and income to the country, but it is also to remove the possibility for Europe to replace European coal with Norwegian gas. So there are not only 170,000 workers in the oil industry – and their uncertainty – the working party is able to mess it up, one will have increased greenhouse gas emissions as well. No one can point to an improvement in world greenhouse gas emissions by reducing production on Norwegian soil, rather on the contrary.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e4411	The centralisation policy of the government really begins to be felt all over the country. In particular, this is a good thing outside the big cities and urban regions. It has been said very much from the members of the government party on how well things are going with the local economy around. In reality, the municipalities now note – after five years with a Right and Advance Party-led government – that several tasks are transferred to the municipalities, without being accompanied by means to cover up these tasks. Example: Local authorities experience that raising the entry point of resource-required users has been done in repeated rounds, and there are further cuts in the scheme, where local authorities have to cover the costs of sickness and follow-up training for those added – large expenditures that have been transferred to municipalities. The interaction reform also provides additional expenditure for municipalities. Sickhouses and healthcare professionals send patients to municipalities earlier, without funding. We have a nursery norm that hasn't been fully funded. There are many examples. The state is easing tasks to the municipalities, without it being followed by funds. This happens to municipalities every day. We are constantly seeing a centralisation – through the local reform, regional reform, police reform – and we are seeing a cutting-edge approach by using the directorates and agencies to centralise important services around. I would like to give some examples of this from my country: Health Møre and Romesdal must cut in important offers. They will reduce the food supply in Kristiansund, the rehabilitation centre in Aure and in Volda and DPS in Ørskog municipality, where Sylvi Listhaug comes from. This happens as the Minister of Health and Government sit and watch – and boast that there are robust services around. Another example is the reduction of traffic stations in the country. The government will cut into the ranks that provide services near people, while there will be increased bureaucracy around their own government. Centralisation of traffic stations in More and Romesdal will lead to an unsustainable everyday life for those required to take driving licences or to obtain the approval of heavy goods vehicles. In More and Romesdal we have fjords, we have mountains. It's a difficult situation. If there is to be only one station, it will be difficult for the youth in school to get a driver's card. Now we notice the robust centralization well out in the Kingdom of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e4426	The government allows the richest in the fishing industry to buy up all the cod quotas. The new generation of fishermen must stick to an open group. Open group is the group where people who haven't been allocated an allowance are. Usually, these are the youngest fishers that have to start. Since the volumes of allowances channelled to this small group are reduced, this last entry to the industry does not provide a safe and good food route. In 2019, where the international cod quota allocated to Norway is 6 pst. lower than in 2018, the government has cut the quota for an open group of 17 pst. All the fish that the large trawls sweep with them to send it unprocessed to China — fish originally taken from the coastal fleet to be delivered for production in Norway — provide zero jobs in Norway. What does the government do? Nothing. Is there a paralysis of action the government is able to describe as facilitating? This is an art piece. I quote from the government statement: «Norway shall continue to take an international lead in clean and productive seas.» The truth is that Norway is a slowdown in international terms. This is the opposite of having a leading role. Furthermore, the government is controlling the forces in the country that require farming to be carried out in closed plants — in an industry that dumps about 20 %. 430,000 tonnes of excrement in the clean seas of the people. This confirms the distorted image of the government itself. I quote from the government statement: ‘In recent decades millions of people have been working out poverty through international trade and the emergence of a market economy. Now global trade is under pressure and protectionism on the rise. This gives cause for concern.’» The market economy adored by the civil blue government has been practised in terms of the purchase and sale of fishing quotas in contravention of the explicit decision to enlarge. This has depleted a large number of small communities in my home country. See, for example: on Kvalsund, who has lost 77 pst. of its 10 year cod quotas, Loppa by 48 pst., Vardø by 45 pst. and my home municipality Hasvik with 31 pst. This sits with the government and looks at it without caring about a day's work.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e4449	Some parties try to create the impression that they have monopoly over a warm and inclusive society. This is not the case, for it is typically Norwegian to take good care of those who, for various reasons, are struggling or falling outside. The government platform will make Norway a warmer society for the disabled. In the Declaration of Government, the Prime Minister said: ‘The government will implement an equivalency reform to make it easier for families with children with special needs. We will ensure equal opportunities for personal development, participation and life for all." These are words for a warmer society. And she continued: ‘We shall improve the BPA scheme and increase the number of VTA sites to ensure that even more people are able to be included in the labour market and society at large.’ It's this government that rights-based user-controlled personal assistance, also called BPA. The rights fixation came in 2015, and with it it came with more than 500 million. kr in increased funds for municipalities. User-controlled personal assistance shall provide disabled persons with equal opportunities for participation in school, work and leisure activities. The assistant shall be the extended hands of the user or whatever the disabled person needs assistance so that the user is more and better able to control his or her own life situation. I am still receiving enquiries from disabled people who are frustrated that the municipality they live in does not provide satisfactory BPA services. It may also appear that some municipalities are unable to distinguish sick from disabled people. A disability is not ill. They should also not have home services, but user-driven personal assistants. In a letter from the Ministry of Local Government, it is stated that BPA should include ‘practical assistance for necessary cleaning and other necessary assistance for all practical tasks of daily life’. But not all municipalities practice this very carefully. A blind married couple recently contacted me. They are frustrated, because the municipality they live in refuses to assist them with the practical tasks of daily life. The couple must neatly cut the lawn and wash the windows themselves. Can the president imagine a blind couple cutting lawns and washing windows? Nope. I find it very regrettable that some municipalities do not follow up on the intention of BPA. This has led the government of the platform to say even more clearly that BPA is a gender equality tool and not a health system. Today, only disabled people under the age of 67 are entitled to personal assistants. The Government Platform states that this age limit should be removed. The government has promised that there will be a NOW in a short time. I look forward to it, because it is time to clarify the offer to disabled people. They deserve a better offer than many municipalities give them, because the BPA system is not a healthcare service, but a release tool. Strengthening BPA will help make Norway a warmer society, and it will prevent a vulnerable group from falling outside.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e4472	The regulatory time of the meeting shall be immediately running out of time. The President proposes that the Storting should continue the meeting until today's map has been completed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e4477	When the platform for the last expansion of Erna Solberg's right-wing government was presented at Granavolden, many commented on the striking lack of enthusiasm for the negotiators. The first impression has stood. Maybe it's not that much to enjoy? ‘Good Right-wing Policy in the Granavolden platform’ stands with bold types on the right.no. The Labour Party agrees, but we want a different course for Norway, with far more emphasis on community and cohesion of social differences than what we find in the statement of the Right-wing Government. A nearby question is, Where has it become of the disabled? Erna Solberg did not mention them in one word yesterday. The right has published 30 new ideas and good solutions from Granavolden on the right. A few examples of what the Right believes to be worth mentioning are 120 km/h and open pole sales until noon. 16 on Saturdays. However, the approximately 90,000 disabled who are involuntarily out of the labour market are not mentioned. Siv Jensen said in his speech today that the right-wing government's goal is a simpler everyday life for most people, that we should secure Norway for the future through the value of our work. Nor did she mention that disabled people with a simpler everyday life will and can contribute to future value creation. The new Minister for Gender Equality from the Left did not find room for the disabled in his post. Something is on the platform, but is not important enough to be lifted up and up in the government statement. The question is whether it will be better to hear Norway in the spring by the committee monitoring whether we are following up our commitments under the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. I wonder what they have to say about the right-wing government choosing to remove all the universal design deadlines. I wonder what they have to say that the car hire disappeared for all those who are outside both education and working life. Is there equality, or is there rather an example of discrimination, and if there is discrimination, will the right-wing government turn on such issues? The organisations of people with disabilities have good advice for us politicians: stop thinking about equivalency – it signals that there are differences between people – and start thinking about equality with rights and obligations, as we do when it comes to equality. They also have some basic requirements: to incorporate the Convention into the Human Rights Act in order to give the greater weight, including the legal right to self-determination, rather than the defence and representation of people with disabilities in all contexts of premise and decision-making. Unfortunately, the platform does not answer such questions, even though we are talking about our largest minority.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e4493	It is generally accepted that drug dependence and alcohol abuse are public health diseases that must be combated by active policies. One aspect of this is that they destroy families, the growth of children, and often lead to persistent alienation in society. Unlike other diseases, addiction to alcohol and alcohol is often accompanied by feelings of guilt and shame that one has failed to get out of misery. There has been a recent debate on the social issues of gambling, and that these are often underestimated by parents and those of us who have not grown up with the gambling culture with which our children grow up. At the same time, the Internet has made gambling available in a whole new way. Now, of course, neither computer games nor gambling itself — just as alcohol itself is not problematic — is problematic, but it is the addiction and destructive power that is in being guided by the need to play, which is problematic. I remember that many in my great-grandparent regeneration had a very strained relationship with card games, and it was about the danger of playing from farm and land. You should be careful with that. Today, the risk of playing from the farm and reason is just one key click away. When availability increases, there is also an increased risk of dependence. This is, of course, a premise that underlies our restrictive alcohol policy here to the country, but now it is high time that we politicians took seriously that gambling addiction is an increasing social and public health problem that must also be tackled with concrete policies. That is why one of the achievements of the Granavolden platform is something I am pleased about, and something I want to highlight here in this debate: the action plan against gambling addiction. I am also pleased that the government has committed itself to – and I quote now – ‘forming a policy based on the social responsibility and consideration of gambling addicts’. The Christian People's Party has a long tradition of promoting policies that take into account the vulnerable and vulnerable groups of society. That's why this action plan is right after the hearts of the Christian People's Party, and I look forward to it coming to Stortinget, because that action plan is going to make a difference for potential gambling addicts and their families and children.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e4510	I would like to make a few comments on the area that I am also working on in the committee in Stortinget, namely education policy. There is a lot about education policy in the Granavolden Declaration, but there is little new and little concrete policy. On the contrary, I think it is quite remarkable that such a large proportion of what is being debated has already been adopted. Otherwise, there are some rather non-binding wordings. Inflating the government statement in this way – I don't know exactly what kind of strategy it is, but it's possible it's a strategy to create an impression of a statement with a lot of new policies. The reality is that it obscures some of the real political situation when a number of points are also included that have already been adopted. It is not so surprising, to say the least, that a Right-led government will conduct Right-wing policy in the field of education, but all teachers, principals, parents and students should note that the declaration contains a clear continuation of Right-wing policy and is therefore a warning of more, not less, target management in the school. With the Christian People's Party on board, the government now has a majority to implement it. Let me take a few examples of that problem. One is the point of the declaration on the mapping of learning outcomes and the publication of results at school level. This means in clear terms that teachers should continue to spend disproportionately much time on tests, international tests, national tests, etc., etc. The argument that this testing leads to more learning is an argument that lacks professional evidence. On the contrary, research suggests that the pedagogical value of national samples is low, while the cost to students, among others, is low. in the form of increased stress and pressure at school, is quite suitable for concern. In a doctoral thesis that was taken in the fall, one of the conclusions is that the demands of the authorities collide with the understanding of what makes the school good. It says, among other things.\t\t You can change the ‘The quality work of the school is not linked to national tests, but to the knowledge of each individual student in the daily learning activity of teachers.’ However, this government seems to have a very strong belief in steering the school through revision of test results and competition between schools, and that is unfortunate in the opinion of the Center Party. There is one further point in the statement that is difficult to understand, just plainly, and it is that the government will ‘follow up the work of the lower limit of school quality and systematic follow-up of school owners with persistently weak results’. Is it a threat, there's a rice behind the mirror, and what's the government really going to use it for if they're going through schools that have bad results for different reasons?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e4528	I've grown up with a notion that if women gain power, women's self-determination and work on women's reproductive health, that women's reproductive health and self-determination will stop being a matter of the morals or the subject of political games, that women themselves will be allowed to decide what is right and wrong for them, and that they feel safe and cared for by ruling women with power. Unfortunately, this government has many opinions about what women should do with their own bodies. This applies to those who do not want children, or do not want more children; they must take a little more responsibility, according to the Prime Minister. For those who are involuntarily childless and want children, the government will not allow fertility treatment if one is alone. Nor will the government allow egg donation to help more people who want to have children. There has also been provision to restrict the right to self-determined abortion in terms of foetal reduction. I think women expect a completely different policy from a government made up of a female prime minister, a female finance minister and a female equality minister. Unfortunately, we also see a development in which birthing women have become a balancing post. We see that today's maternity services in many hospitals are not sufficient, while the provision in the municipalities is not built up to ensure that the community midwives take over maternity care. We see this development in Bergen, for example. Haukeland Hospital, in Kristiansund, in the planning of new hospitals in Oslo, to mention some examples – a development that professional environments strongly warn against. At the same time, we know that today 60,000 women are sharing about 400 midwives in the municipalities. Only half of the country's municipalities have employed a municipal landlady. According to the Earthmothers' Association, if we continue with today's escalation, it will take 30 years before we get a full plot of earth murder. We expect a completely different degree of commitment from the government, a concrete plan, that the government introduces a financing mechanism that makes it more attractive for municipalities to hire midwives, and we expect a plan that will not take 30 years before we get full land murder coverage in the municipalities. We're not going to give up. We will continue to fight for both women's self-determination and women's reproductive health and for safe and good maternity care.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e4543	The goal of the Christian People's Party is for all families to notice that there is now a party in government that really takes the children's needs seriously, and that listens to their parents' concerns and joys, a party that not only talks nicely about a safe childhood and good growth, but is also willing to prioritise the families when we sit around the negotiating table. That's exactly what our people did to Granavolden. One of the most important breakthroughs, of which we can be really proud, is our child reform. Childcare is the common investment of society in families with children. It's also one of the most important tools we have to combat child poverty. Child protection had been at rest since 1996, until last autumn, when the budget negotiations were being implemented to increase it by NOK 1000 per year. It was a good start. Now I'm extremely proud that the Christian People's Party on Granavolden was able to make a positive impact on child welfare with a total of NOK 7200 a year per child between 0 and 6 years of age. It's just in this period that most parents have the least to route with. At the same time, we have ensured an ingenious arrangement for the other children, those between the ages of 6 and 18, namely the leisure card – a card that the state and the municipality fill together, so that children are now given the opportunity to participate in leisure activities. It shall no longer be the size of the parents’ wallet that determines whether children are allowed to experience mastering, cohesion and experiences that contribute to a safe and healthy upbringing. When we know how much impact children and young people's exclusion can have on the rest of their lives and on society as a whole, we also know that this leisure card will be a good investment that helps secure our common future. The last breakthrough I want to raise, which will give a better start for many children of young parents, is that the one-time benefit is now being increased and linked to the basic amount. This aid is granted to parents who have not acquired the right to parental leave. One of the reasons for the falling birth rates is that more and more people are postponing to have children for so long that it becomes impractical to have more than one or two. Therefore, we believe that turning the one-off benefit into a continuous parental benefit related to the basic amount could make it easier for young couples to have children if they want it. In reality, this assumption means that the parental killers receive a minimum level of 1 G, i.e. NOK 96 883, which will be adjusted annually in line with the price and salary growth. That's an increase of the entire 177 pst. since 2014. The Christian People's Party, by fighting through these good insights, has really shown that we mean it when we say that we take the children and the families seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e4554	Now I'm going to nuance some of Prime Minister Erna Solberg's general statements that everyone can agree with. The country is built from below, and the decisions are best taken almost as far as they are concerned, says the Prime Minister. Nevertheless, the government's policy is to override local decisions and impose standards and competences without being able to meet today's demands throughout the country. The municipalities are the ones that build schools and employ teachers, but the government only cares about how they can drag all the municipalities into their molding requirements. Infrastructure throughout the country depends on local economy and predictability. It is the private kindergartens that are now struggling with the economy and have to go down because the government is charging them more expenses without their income being included – they probably don't remember in Solberg's statements. The results at school are going straight, says the Prime Minister. The Parliamentary Leader of the Right points out that master’s training of teachers gives good results in school before the first teachers with new education have finished studying. The fact is that several students receive ‘not assessed’ in secondary education. A new OECD report points out that gender differences in primary education are higher in Norway than in most other countries. This is obvious when 90 pst. Among the girls on specialisation in studies, secondary education consists of five years after they started, while 57 pst. the success of the boys in the professional field is immediate. Children and young people will grow up and develop and their abilities, continues Solberg. How are they gonna do that? Is it in the larger and more effective competitive kindergartens and schools? Is it when teachers and students are charged with longer schoolworkdays, more real education in secondary school and more English in secondary education? The center party has said that before, and we're saying it again: the students don't get less school tired and more motivated if we offer them more of what doesn't work. Students must have work practices, meet the everyday life of their education, and learn motivation for real science, linguistics and other subjects in the phenomena in which the subjects operate in practice. The Prime Minister’s promise of 10,000 new math teachers in the period 2013–2018 is also justified, as the sum of new employees in primary school with approved math skills is much smaller. The fact is, however, that the skill requirement, with retroactive effect, makes more teachers unskilled, puts more people in the queue for continuing training and makes fewer motivated to do the world's most important job: to be a good teacher.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e4567	I would also like to join in the long series of representatives who have congratulated Norway on the first civil majority government since 1985. It is an important milestone, which forms the basis for a safe and predictable governance of the country in the next few years. And that's especially important right now, all the time we have both ambitious plans to implement, and major challenges to solve. Contrary to what can be perceived when we hear the opposition in this debate, the arrows in Norway point in the right direction. What we hear from the Workers' Party today is a mixture of hollow criticism and idea drying. Well, they about it, we're more concerned with looking high and low to pursue a policy that creates concrete results. Therefore, this government has introduced an activity obligation for young beneficiaries of social assistance, and we now see that the number of young people in social care is falling. That is why I am very pleased that we have four bourgeois – or non-socialist – parties in the Granavolden Declaration together to expand the obligation of activity, because we know that making demands on individuals is to care. This is in stark contrast to the Workers' Party, which voted against this when it was introduced and which cut the money for the action in its alternative budget. So they're on the social security line of SV. The Labour Party says that people have to endure temporaryity in their working life. Yes, a precisely equal proportion of employees in Norway are temporarily employed now as when the Workers' Party sat in government offices. But this probably doesn't fit into the Workers' Party's story. The main policy project of the right is to build a sustainable welfare society, and a prerequisite for meeting all the challenges it poses is high labour participation, for all those who can contribute to it to be included in the labour market. That's why we're trying to qualify more people for a job, that it's always going to pay off to work, and to work with Nav. We implement an inclusion tool to include more people in the workplace, while targeting the benefits to those who need it the most. Several opposition representatives have pointed out in this debate that the new government platform contained recognisable Right-wing policy. I really thought that was nice and calm. Unpredictability is no one who likes, and the voters now have in two consecutive choices made clear that they really like Right Policy. So recognizable Right-Policy I think is a nice medal to sign with and a nice start to the expansion of the bourgeois government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e4580	The representative of Huitfeldt claimed in his statement that the share of the defence budget in gross domestic product is not increasing to 2 pst. That's wrong. When this government took over in 2013, the percentage was 1,2 pst. Today, it's probably 1.6 pst. But more important than this percentage is what you put in -- actually -- of dollars in the defence budget. The defence budget has actually increased by 16 billion. kr since 2013. Then Huitfeldt said something else that I reacted to: the working party was betting on the army and on tanks. Yeah, I wish! In the Workers' Party's alternative state budget, 70 million were added. kr – about enough to half a tank. When this government took over in 2013, Minister of Defence Ine M. Eriksen Soreide and the Chief of Defence launched a thorough review of the Defense. The conclusion was – after many years of fog talking and displacement – that the defence was under controlled liquidation. The government acted immediately and has started building up the Defense, step by step: First, it sets up the Defense we have, and then it practices more, and then it invests in new systems. The representative of Navarsete was concerned with the lack of maritime surveillance capacity. Yeah, that's the government, too. Therefore, five new aircraft are purchased, the world's most advanced surveillance aircraft. The centre party did not include new surveillance aeroplanes in its long-term alternative plan. The army's nature is the capacity for reorganization and mobility. The army is not a stationary fortification in the inner Troms. There's a reason parts of the Army are now moving to Finnmark; that's because the threat picture has changed. It is a demanding political task to replace most of the main defence systems when they expire approximately at the same time. New fighter aircraft, new submarines and new coastguards are purchased, and the main systems of the Army are renewed. Therefore, this government has only increased the budget by 4 billion in the State budget from 2018 to 2019. kr. In fact, the investment share in the defence budget is 27 p.m. - All 20 B.C.E. kr! That's why we're now well above the 20 pst NATO requirement. Conclusion: The government is well on repatriating the defense, but we're not in the target. We've turned around, and we're going to continue on the course we've gone out.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e4597	One of the themes of today’s debate is the new legislation and the practice of services in kind. The Labour Party is of course that workers are paid for their work so that they earn both pensions, holidays and other rights. But rarely have we experienced so much uncertainty, confusion and chaos with a code like what we've had lately. These include voluntary sector, festivals, sporting events, sponsorship, contractual arrangements, staff discounts – to name a few. It has not been given that the change will result in an increase in the salary of employees, but it may have adverse side effects. We therefore believe it is wise for the government to take a new round to look at unintended effects, as the Minister of Finance suggested earlier today. Last Monday I was on a company visit to the Dale of Norway. They have 90 employees. For 140 years they have been living in Vaksdal, a municipality at Bergensbanen between Bergen and Voss. They produce one of our strongest brands. It's a bit of a mess with the flow that Norway is able to compete globally in the knitted and crocheted industry. There have been rising and falling times, but now it's going very well, and in periods the three shifts have to take away demand. Since 1956 they have equipped our alpine stars with new design agents, and now they also equip the handball team. The employees are incredibly proud of the quality products they produce, and are some of the company's main ambassadors when they market new products, especially in social media. Dale of Norway also sponsors Skarverennet, and some of the employees get to participate in the race every year. The main issue raised by the Dale of Norway is precisely the new rules on staff discounts, which they fear – and they said it outright – will weaken the sale of Dale of Norway products. The management was clear that the new legislation would be so comprehensive as to manage it that they would choose to cut out all sponsorships and staff discounts. They fear that products will not come out in the same way as before, and they fear that there will also be consequences for jobs, future recruitment and not least corner stone farms like Dale of Norway. They are amazed that it is a Right and Advance Party government that is behind the new legislation, and it is primarily ordinary workers that are affected. They have learned that free parking spaces, which are largely for management, are not taxed. The new rules are perceived as petty and take away some of the glue that makes competitive corner stone companies like Dale of Norway live on. The current government is committed to continuing the work of the Stoltenberg II government to simplify and reduce, but it is perceived that this is the very opposite and will lead to increased bureaucracy. The Labour Party therefore encourages the government to take a new round and look at how the legislation on benefits in kind can be understood and practised much better.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e4612	The centre piece of black paints. Vedum is trying to trick people when he's talking about centralization. It's very good in Norway, especially in the districts, so it is. That's what government parties talk about a day, both in the media and in the hall here today. And then the wobbling bow jumps at the fact that even now the police are slaughtering the near-police reform, which has made Norway more unsafe, especially in the districts. And they keep their ears open when employees and the population desperately shout to save their hospitals, which are to be centralised away, or study lines and campers who suffer the same fate. Only the rapporteur's appeals and municipal delegations are being ignored, which are desperately trying to regain the right of self-determination over hydropower and tax revenues, so that they can manage to provide the citizens with what they require of services. Listen doesn't make the government parties. And they definitely don't take the criticism that many people now give them, because they lose services, offers and state jobs around them – because that is what the trade unions have decided to do, that is to say, the environments that the government parties are really happy to be able to take on the noise when this large-scale centralisation project is under way. Robust trade unions are drumming up the development of society and the use of the whole country – every two days with the Right and the Advance Party in power. There in the farm it doesn't mean much that not all districts and peoples get access to the same services, as long as business owners can be taxed. When there is no argument against the content of the Central Party's criticism of centralization, our form is being attacked. We are so populist – because we criticize the government for policies that people seem to agree with us are bad. Or even more so: they claim that the Central Party is simply fooling people, as the representative Løvaas from the Westfold Right went to his post earlier today. Well, there are many in the coming coercive region of Løvaas who believe the same thing as me and the Center Party, for example. The editor of TA, Telemark’s very largest newspaper, which this week concluded that the government is dismantling District Norway and Telemark. His examples are so many and so rough that it is totally incomprehensible to me that the government does not change course, blurs out the money that is going to be in the near-police reform, and ends with centralisation. But this does not happen, because as more and more people discover – without us in the Center Party having to tell them: Erna & co. It does not concern Norway as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e4625	One would think that a new government would give a lot of enthusiasm among those who are now ruling. But we haven't seen that. It's been small and few smiles, little glow – and most importantly, we haven't seen a common project for what you want with society. I think we got it very well illustrated already after the first article. In the lines to Jonas Gahr Støre was the first question from the Right parliamentary leader, who thought the Workers' Party created uncertainty about oil, while the next question came from the Left, who thought that the Workers' Party stopped all the debate on oil. We hear a government team cracking in every direction. When they agreed on a state budget in December, they ended up separating each other for two bottles of wine. When they finished the statement, there was no cheer to see – there was a dark crowd that met the press. But who can blame them? This is not a statement there is reason to be very enthusiastic about it. Erna Solberg has become a historical Right-Chairman and Prime Minister of Norway. She became historical when she put the abortion law on the table to attract the Christian People's Party. Norwegian women became a negotiation card for the Right. Now, for the first time in over 40 years since the law was passed, we've actually had some restraints in the abortion law. She also became historical as the Right-leader when she let the Advance Party carry on in free dressage with her right-wing populist play. Unfortunately, although we've been used to a lot, there was another point that came when the representative Per-Willy Amundsen suggested less child-responsiveness to immigrants on the grounds that he would maintain the ethnic Norwegian population. Amundsen is not a politician of any kind. It's only been a year since he sat at Solberg's table as her Minister of Justice. Now it would take a whole week before she said she disagreed with him. Out of this cooperation, we've had the worst in the various parties. We've got a Christian People's Party that prioritizes those sides that have the least uprising in the people. We've got a Progress Party that plays rough on its right-wing populism, and most of all we've got Right-wing economic policy. Norway has not become a completely different country with the right government, but we are going in the wrong direction. Step by step increases the differences between people. It's tax cuts for those who have the most, and it's cut for those who have the least. It's both unsolvable and unfair. The working party wants something else. We want to do the big problems together. We don't want to privatize our common well-being. We want to make sure everyone has safe, regular jobs. We want to invest in school and health, because it's so much more important that the kids have enough teachers, and that the students have a health sister to go to than that the richest get a little more money in the wallet. We will take greater care of our greatest task, namely the climate crisis. It requires politicians who think about climate in everything they do. And we want a Norway that includes everyone who has zero tolerance for racism and who celebrates Pride. Our men and women should know that their rights will never be turned into a negotiating card.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e4643	Earlier in this debate I heard that the Prime Minister referred to the Gini coefficient to prove that the differences do not increase in the country under her leadership. But I don't need a graph to see that the differences actually increase. I see it when the right-wing government puts down prisons with jobs in my county without sufficient means of conversion, so that people end up without a job and with an uncertain future. I know it far inside my heart when women's right to decide over their own bodies becomes a negotiating card to form a government. I hear it in conversations with desperate policemen who have to reject victims of crime at the door because the police reform is underfunded. And I understand that when ordinary people are in line in the courts while the robbers get a penalty discount. That's why I don't need any further evidence, and that's why I'm so happy that the Workers' Party instead is pursuing a policy that strengthens the community, where we stand for each other, and where we solve the biggest problems in common.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e4652	First of all, it's almost tempting to invite the Aukust representative to take a little tour and visit all these so-called kingdoms in More and Romesdal that he talked about – those who stand up early every morning and produce values that he can share in distributing here in this room. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have been united for the past five and a half years on a historic movement. The transport budget has increased by 75 pst. since we took over in 2013. We've put in place a very ambitious national transport plan, and we're going to spend more than 1000 billion. to build and maintain important infrastructure over the next 12 years. It is absolutely essential for us to have value creation and development across the country, for people to get safely to and from work, school and leisure activities, and for goods to come out quickly and efficiently to the markets. Action on transport is district policy in practice. When we travel around Norway, we find exciting businesses in all parts of the country, companies that are completely at the top of the world within their regions. Good infrastructure is a prerequisite for these enterprises to operate and create safe and profitable jobs. Through the transport effort, we build good everyday regions throughout the country. It is not enough to spend more money on transportation. We also have to spend the money smarter. That is why we are implementing important reforms. The establishment of New Roads has been a success. Major transport years are being expanded more coherently and at a lower cost than previously estimated. This means that we get more money back, and that other important transportation projects can be carried out faster. In the new government platform, we continue this initiative and extend the portfolio to New Roads. New parts of the country are to be expanded, while the transfers to the company are being increased. It's good news for everyone who's dedicated to building all of Norway, and a cross of thought for the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV, who have voted against all these reforms, and who was against the establishment of the Nye Veier. The transport sector must take a large part of greenhouse gas emissions in the non-quota sector. In contrast to the representative Nävra of SV, I have great faith that we must meet the ambitious goals of the government in the government platform. We're already in good shape. The railway is being developed at a pace we haven't seen before, and several travels collectively. The government has committed itself to follow-up on the bet and finances 50 pst. of large collective projects. The tax exemption for electric cars continues, and in 2018 we have seen that as much as one third of the new car sales are made up of zero-emission cars. Low and zero emission ferries are built at great speed. Within a few years, as much as 70 ferries will be low- and zero-emission ferries. In my home county of More and Romsdal, Hurtigruten, Havila and Color Line build large passenger ships with battery solutions that allow you to sail in Norwegian fjords and into the dock. The transport sector is changing considerably. This government platform is building up the big change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e4669	In a previous reply with the Labour Party parliamentary leader, Jonas Gahr Støre, the representative Sylvi Listhaug asserted that the Workers' Party took money out of people's wallets, referring to property taxes and municipalities. That's typical liberal economic argument, because what Sylvi Listhaug, the Progress Party and the right-hand side always claims is that tax relief is a free thing, it's not something that matters, and you can just do that. Of course, this is the way to think if you want to take away the services that finance these tax breaks. So that's the way to think about it. And maybe they're thinking that they're going to open the way for privatization. I suspect it. I hope the Christian People's Party is able to hold back on this very thing in the years they're going to sit with these people in government. I really hope they do, but I doubt they'll make it. The reality is that we get representatives from the right parties who come up here as a train and claim that the municipalities manage their money poorly, that they don't have to impose property taxes or have a high rate on it, they can just get a little bit neater out there. They travel a index finger, but to whom do they travel the index finger? To the rapporteurs of the Christian People's Party? To the rapporteurs of the Right? To the rapporteurs of the Progress Party? Or to all their municipal government representatives across the country who say it's not going to work? And then what do they do? It hides the right-wing representatives and Sylvi Listhaug. Then they solved it by increasing the municipal fees. But it's kind of not a tax. Of course it is. Once and for all, we must cut this understanding that tax relief is free. There is nothing called free lunch in any economic model, nor in the Norwegian. On top of this comes the following, which has not been said in this debate: this is possible for them because they spend the oil money. They lubricate their budgets with oil money and spend the next generation of capital to finance this liberal economic policy. Now the Left and Christian People's Party is on the train. I think it's incredibly sad.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e4680	I am pleased that the government will have an even stronger commitment to social security and preparedness and a stronger defence. It is important that the platform determines that Norway should move further towards the 2 % target. Without security and peace, no development. Some of the things that undoubtedly involve new opportunities for innovation and value creation, but that challenge us at the same time, are digitisation. It creates new dilemmas, new threats and spaces for new forms of crime in the cyberdomain. We're going to be better off grasping the opportunities that new technologies, digitisation, big data and robotization open up. At the same time, we need to recognise the vulnerability involved, and do more to reduce the risk of serious data attacks. Here we've been partly too naive, let's agree on that. Basic privacy, critical infrastructure and national security interests may be at stake. This is why the debate on the establishment of a digital border defence, which our neighbouring country has, becomes important. Do we have structures, cross-sectoral units that can capture new, diffuse, hybrid threats early enough and efficiently enough and put together the pieces of puzzles? We have to raise the debate on how to govern and control foreign purchases and investments. How are we going to protect ourselves from and strain out companies that can indirectly have connections to foreign government intelligence? Involvement and deployment, operation and investment in critical infrastructure are a matter of concern to national security interests and should be addressed accordingly. Therefore, we should note the PST's advice that companies from countries with which we do not have security policy cooperation must be limited from investing in and working with ecosystems and other critical infrastructure. The information works, wrote the NUPI manager recently. How are we going to increase resistance and wear and tear in Norwegian society? How are we going to make the population, and in particular the growing generation, less vulnerable to diminutive information and manipulation of opinions through social media? Here we need to rethink and draw experiences from other countries that have come further in this field than we do. There will be exciting debates in the future. They're going to be demanding. They will require strengthened civil protection and social security, the revitalisation of total defence and an even closer cooperation with our friends and allies internally in NATO and in the European Community.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e4697	National transport plan 2018–2029 was dealt with in Stortinget a little over a year and a half ago. The majority behind today's NTP is the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party. Now all these parties are in the same government and have to implement the policy. Majority governments are capable of action. This is pleasing to the Left. We were and are very pleased with today's NTP. There is a good distribution between road and rail and good priorities between city and district – this will now be implemented. The left is also concerned that the future transport system is electrical. The electric car benefits are continued, more and more ferries are being built and put into service. Not only are they without greenhouse gas emissions, they are also quiet, and the sea air can be enjoyed and swelled and waffles served. The green shift is going on, and not just that: there's going to be green growth of this. Businesses that are green will have good prospects. We have received a large biogas production at Forest and a robot-based battery factory, costing 100 million. kr, in Trondheim. Maybe we'll get hydrogen production in Glomfjord again. The left is technology optimists and will solve the challenges by using our brain capacity and exploiting our rich natural resources. The views are good. Not only does transport become greener, but greener production of goods and services is increasing. The Granavolden platform says that the CO2 emissions of the agricultural sector will be reduced. The use of fossil fuel by the plant sector shall be phased out within a few years. The worst thing about harmful emissions today is our speedboats. They are very important for getting good housing and work regions. Here, optimism has now been created for state climate change money and county government foresight, and Enova is strong in the belief in battery and hydrogen. In addition, Enova has a lot of money. They have been transferred through the state budgets of the four parties in the last five years. The enthusiasm of Norwegian boat builders is great, and we will soon see the results of research, purchasing requirements and good framework conditions. It can create amazing opportunities both nationally and internationally. It's going to be green growth of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e4712	What made me ask for the floor was the Prime Minister's contribution to the debate. It may have happened before governments have been satisfied with themselves, but the husband of self-confidence, like what we heard here today, has to read the American President's Twitter account to find the husband. In addition, the Prime Minister allows himself to teach us how to participate in the debate in Stortinget. I can promise the Prime Minister that we are not going to start using the strings that the spider doctors in the Right have said that all the Right representatives are going to use, and stand here and just pay tribute to the government. When we see that the differences in the country are increasing dramatically, when we see that the lowest wage earners are getting ever lower wages while the highest wage earners are rising and going away, we're not going to say as the Right, that all the arrows are pointing in the right direction. We want those arrows in a different direction. What really bothered me was the Prime Minister's debate technique when she said that now everything is going so much better for the government. Gahr Støre referred to that statement, and then she put it, in her reply, as that Gahr Støre has said that everything goes much better under this government. Twisting on what the opponent says, or making sure to misunderstand, is a little tidy debate technique. I say this because the Prime Minister encouraged us to build on facts. We have experience of this from the past. Just before Christmas we dealt with the object protection issue, where the obvious error in a government document for Stortinget was described as being unpresist. We revealed that the Prime Minister said a direct error in the hearing in the committee, and managed to use the new word "wrong experience" and said that the Storting had experienced what she said wrong. We have heard this today as well: when the electricity charge is increased by 5 cents and reduced by 1 cent, it is presented by the Prime Minister as the electricity charge has been reduced. And the claim of 5,500 fewer employees, as the Prime Minister came out of the pulpit today, is explicitly recovered, because when one subtracts that the Norwegian Church, Bane NOR, the Institute of Public Health and parts of the Coastal Agency are separated, the fact is that there are 889 more in the central government. Yes, we're going to discuss it based on facts, but we're not going to discuss it based on the Prime Minister's alternative truth.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e4727	It has been a long day and a rather black-and-white day, according to my concepts. It's been a strange experience for the working party leaders to hear the description of their own party from the outside. I wonder what it would have been like if the Christian People's Party had gone to the other side – whether we had become the Workers' Party then, or whether we had been allowed to be our own party. So I want to ask some questions, because there was an attack on non-profit actors and that they now had it trap: who has solved the historic pension schemes for the non-profit sector? Who has earmarked funds for those organisations that have not agreed with the specialist health service? Who has written in the platform that care services for those who do not want specialist health care, but want to be with the ideal actors for their care, are allowed to get the opportunity to do so? Who has got their own chapter on ideal actors in a government platform? And I'm asking, what has Work said about what's written about ideal actors in the platform? And who would support the work of the Salvation Army in Oslo, but for which the government had to support? I'm just asking, who?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e4734	I would like to start my speech by congratulating Minister Bollestad on the task. I'm actually glad that the Christian People's Party has taken on the job in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, and I want to close down to securing an agricultural sector throughout the country that is based more on Norwegian resources than before. We're going to go, and we're going to be critical, but I want Bollestad to close. A lot is used during transportation We actually follow up the previous NTP, at least almost. But when you see what's happening on county roads, at least in Hordaland and in Sogn and Fjordane, the Center Party will have its own initiative on county roads where it takes into account the different challenges in the different counties. As it is today, one cannot, however well a state prioritizes, keep the standard up and secure against race, while being forced to comply with the EU Tunnels Directive. In the case of the railway, at least in Hordaland, double tracks between Arna and Bergen on Bergensbanen are delayed. It's progress. There is a lot of focus on New Roads being a success. Yeah, it's just supposed to be missing. When a company is created and it gives a completely different framework to what the Road Service has ever had for road construction, it would only be lacking if they were unable to build a better road. It's good that one gets more money, but to say that it's a huge success because one gives a company a completely different framework than a given Vegvesen, is going to be something like setting up a 40 meter supplement. Maybe one would have started faster if one had created a separate department in Vegvesenet and let them have the same framework as New Roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e4745	I hear – and I have especially heard the Prime Minister talk about for many years – that we have to give them opportunities with holes in the CV. I and SV very much agree with that. But what do we see happening now? Just before Christmas, 600 people lost their social benefits, the redundancy money, because the time you're allowed to spend on it is tight, and you haven't equipped Nav with enough resources either to clarify them or to give them action. So many of them aren't clear at this time. I hear regret both from the government and from Nav. Yes, it is therefore not possible to pay the rent, the electricity bill or the necessary food, with regrets. These are people who are sick, who have not had time to help with the health care or qualification they are going to have, and they are now being sent to the social system. That's where they're expected to have a duty of activity. The duty of activity is now spoken of as a medicine that is good for everyone, and the more so. No, activity is just like other medicine. If you get the wrong medicine, you get worse. If you get too much medicine, you get worse. Studies from the Nordic University show that increased activity requirements have increased the distance from work and have been counterproductive for some of the young people who have a mental illness and were seriously ill. It doesn't look like the government or representatives of the government parties care about this, but they have to, because it's serious what happens now with those who have holes in the CV and have it difficult. What does SV suggest? SV suggests activity obligation for Nav. SV suggests that redundancy pay must last for so long as it is completed, that you have the right to remain in the job until you have acquired the necessary skills to get a job. SV suggests more resources to Nav, so that they have time to follow up on the individual and give them the right action – and not just touch them on a job vacancy, as Nav staff now say they have to. And we're proposing more money for action sites. This is a real line of work. What the government is doing is a poverty line, and we see that as a result now, because now social aid expenditure is increasing throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e4756	Norway’s drug policy over the past 20 years has been a continuous settlement with misguided analyses, action plans and a long way to combat crime without goals and meaning. The Russian reform that is now in its legal caste is the crown of the work of a policy and social development in which many parties have shares – from Minister of Justice Dørum’s clear message to the police not to run after minor drug abuses in Norwegian urban streets, via Thorvald Stoltenberg’s 2012 report, to the Højre National Meeting Decision in 2017, via the Jeleya platform and thus now the Granavolden platform, which is anchored in the Christian People’s Party. All this time, the Left has been committed to a consistent social liberal drug policy. When the Portuguese model is now translated into Norwegian in the form of a decriminalisation reform, a whole group of vulnerable people are transferred from a stigmatised existence under police and prosecution authority to a health service to meet them with somatic treatment and therapy. In the play of Granavolden, there were many who feared that the negotiations would help to change the course of the reform that has been adopted in the last two years by a solid majority in the Stortinget. When it did not happen, it is not only due to good political work by the birth aid of the reform, but also to the recognition of international developments which have increasingly shifted away from the ‘War on drugs’ of the Nixon administration in the early 1970s to a more knowledge-based approach. During the last year, we have adopted a new law on injection rooms, it is open to heroin-assisted treatment in Bergen and Oslo, and a review of Norwegian LAR treatment is underway. Nevertheless, 247 deaths from overdose occurred in Norway in 2017 — an excessive figure. My view of the value of drug policy has been created through many visits to treatment settings. I have experienced the stigma that characterizes these environments, the constant poverty, the malnutrition, the bad dental health, the open wounds, the scars of the needlesticks and the ingrained suspicion that characterizes their social intercourse. Contact with people at LAR has taught me a lot about the time of medical prosthesis in this field, about the uncertainty of the treatment system and the lack of tolerance and fear of listening and experiencing. I know that many people are living in constant fear of being reported by their colleagues after treating their rubrics across humane ways by offering them drugs that have the best effect and that provide the most dignity and the highest quality of life. It is with despair that I record that much inadequacy is also due to widespread moralism in the treatment apparatus and the police. Now we're going to do that. The decriminalisation reform is undoubtedly the most important health reform in this period. It's not just a feather in the hat for the Solberg government. As far as I have been able to register, no one in this debate has taken the floor to abolish it – and we should be able to conclude that Norway has taken a long step in the social liberal direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e4767	After sitting and listening to this debate throughout the day, a hearing of many fine words and speeches by the government parties, among others. in the case of green shifts, the urgent need for us to contribute with climate action and to have an offensive climate policy. But what one is measured on in climate policy to the seventh and last, is not the ability to formulate in fine words and phrases and call things green shifting. That's what's going on in practice and concrete. One of the grips that the Storting has repeatedly asked the government to come up with is a CO 2 fund for the transport of food. The commercial transport represents 20 pst. of emissions in Norway. It is a very important step. One has actors in the industry who both see the challenges, who want to take responsibility, and who even present concrete solutions. But the negotiations with the government are on the ground. Or as we got it two days ago: it was not only that the negotiations were on the ground resting, the negotiations had not even started, according to the head of the NHO, who, together with other business organisations, are in preliminary talks with the government. It has been over a year and a half since – in June 2017, in connection with the revision – that there was a clear order from Stortinget to the government: The government asks the government to start negotiations with relevant business organisations for a CO 2 fund. With a government that speaks in words and in terms of saying that one is busy doing something about the climate negotiations and the climate problems, after a year and a half, the negotiations have still not started. The head of the NHO says that if there's no progress now, and if you're not willing to meet the industry, you don't see any point of continuing in dialogue with the government. It's very serious. It is incredibly important that someone now takes responsibility, and that it is commented on by the government. Why can't one set up what's on the model of the NOx model that's already worked? One heard from representatives of the government, inter alia: State Secretary Rotevatn, that no, we have to think about whether there might be other models, because it is not certain that this is in line with government climate policy principles. What are these principles? Is it that one should not have measures that work, but should only increase the fees because it looks nice on the paper? If we are to solve climate problems, which are huge, we must have practical measures, and one must play with business. It is now expected that we will make progress with a CO 2 fund for industrial transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e4796	The government platform states: ‘The patient’s healthcare means that the quality of the treatment should be high, the waiting time as short as possible and that the patient should be consulted in all parts of the healthcare system.’;» Furthermore, it says: ‘In the context of an updated national health plan, the overall priorities for healthcare shall be given, while at the same time providing action spaces and flexibility for each hospital in order to optimise treatment. The government will work for a comprehensive and safe food supply in small and large hospitals.’ This sounds really nice. The problem is not what it says; the problem is that the situation out there, in the services, shows a completely different reality. For example, in More and Romesdal, the company is now working to dismantle the patient’s healthcare system. The daily treatment at Seaholt DPS should be reduced, the Kristiansund maternity ward should be laid down already until spring, and up to 30 rehabilitation beds should be removed. People are disappointed that the healthcare company is saving money to be able to invest in a new hospital, and that up to 200 years' worth of work is going away. Is this really the patient's health care? Patients now have torches in their hands in all cities of More and Romesdal and protest against the patient’s health care. And not only in More and Romesdal; in Valdres they also fight for their DPS and for the construction of the beds in psychiatry. On February 12th, the flares came to Karl Johan. Then there shall be torch against the closure of the largest emergency hospital in Norway, Ullevål. To put it mildly: it will be a demanding hospital for the new government parties. The centre party will ensure that the dismantling and centralisation of emergency services and mental health protection is a matter for the Storting, so that no one here can hide behind health professionals, but must stand up and take responsibility for what is happening out there. The central party is to blame in the debate for blackmailing and for fooling people. I say, if only that would be so. But we see another reality. We're on the verge of something new, for another policy. I will finish my post by borrowing the words of Kate Næss, from the poem On track: ‘We’re on track after a new and better reality which shall not be so far from here: It's hopefully located. in the vicinity of: the heart understands’»
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e4830	A Norwegian adventure in food culture started in Lyon in 1987. Then Arne Brimi was the first Norwegian chef to compete in Bocuse d’Or, the world championship in cooking. Norway has since been an important nation in the competition, and tonight Christian André Pettersen took the bronze medal. Sweden and Denmark were also on the pole – Scandinavia delivers. The commodity is a large part of the explanation behind the Scandinavian success," said Pettersen. Scandinavia has good raw materials and a great tradition for cooking. He used a lumber stick from the Iron and truffle pliers from Lofoten. It happened in France. We have both exotic and beautiful raw materials, we have cooks all over the world, and we are visible in the world. In fact, Norway took its eleventh medal tonight and is therefore the country that has received the most medals in this competition. It is in place to congratulate Christian André Pettersen and the entire Norwegian team, and all those who have gone before him since 1987. This means a great deal to Norwegian food culture and the recruitment of the cooker. I would also like to take this opportunity to welcome the Christian People's Party, and congratulate Mr Olaug V. Bollestad on his new role as Minister for Agriculture and Food. The minister had the fire baptism on the Jären this week, at one of the largest meetings in agriculture with over 700 participants. That's what I'd say she was able to do with shine. Harald Birkevold in Aftenbladet wrote today in a comment that Minister of Agriculture Olug V. Bollestad becomes a worthy opponent of the Centre Party. I must say, that's a good start. Agriculture is and has been important to the government, and Norwegian agriculture is fortunately doing well. The government will continue to maintain the uniqueness of Norwegian food production, such as low drug use, high animal welfare and a long value chain. We're going to be proud of the Norwegian farmer, and we have every reason for that. Norwegian farmers are forward-looking, changeable and spearheads for Norwegian food production. Only fantasy sets limits on which direction you can take. On the toe they shall now start the export of flat bread made on potatoes. These are going to Singapore. Norwegian salmon already have a high star in international context. On the Toten, one has taken advantage of this advantage. We don't get away from climate when we talk about agriculture. This is also an area where it does a lot. At Geno they have an ambition to reduce methane emissions from the NRF Cue by 20 pst. by employing new technologies in the breeding process. The whole country is working on exciting biogas projects, among other things, and agriculture should also be digitised and automated. We will have many good discussions about Norwegian food production in the future. Food is one of our most basic needs except sleep, but it is also culture, reputation, community, tourism and brand construction. We're going to be proud of Norwegian food culture, and we have every reason to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e4845	Norway is one of the most digitised countries in the world. The headlines on digitisation and technology development are behind profound changes in society and the public sector. This is what constitutes the real challenges our national ICT policies must address. In a welfare society like Norway, the demand for public services will continue to increase. These developments are driven by the inhabitants themselves, but not least by us politicians. In order for Norway to become an even smarter society, where citizens can take part in the benefits of digitisation, we need an offensive public sector, a good innovation driver with an administrative culture that allows digital development and participation by all the different actors. We also need empowerment, where everyone will be able to understand the changes and see the possibilities of digitisation and technology development. The government wants Norway to be the leader in applying new digital opportunities in all sectors. We have the very best intentions to close. I thought it was great that we now got a Minister of Digitalisation. The sectors are heavily chiseled in Norwegian policy, and sometimes it has been found demanding to create cross-sectoral involvement with understanding of the different sectors’ needs for digitisation. To keep these gains in mind, we are forced to think about public service production, and we are forced to change the fact that digitization can now be seen in a holistic perspective. We know that the municipal sector in several areas is the key to extracting the social benefit. Therefore, I look forward to following the work of our new minister.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e4860	As we may soon begin to see the end of this debate, I would like to say a few words about why, as an equality-political figure for the Left here on the Stortinget, I am among the most satisfied with this government platform. I'm happy because we've got a solid government platform that provides a good basis for pursuing a good, active and inclusive gender equality policy. I am particularly pleased that the Left has finally been given responsibility for this area in government, a responsibility that has been high on our wish list, and an area that has been very important to the party both now and historically. Equality has come a long way since the Left, as the first party, proposed voting rights for women, but many struggles remain. Left heaths on the modern diversity society with room for everyone, where everyone can be himself, have the same rights and have the same opportunities. Minorities shall be listened to and facilitated. Such an inclusive definition of equality also facilitates this platform. Of course, we should combat structural gender differences, but also gender equality challenges related to age, ethnicity, religion, disability, sexual orientation and not least gender identity. Equality policy is all about this, and there is an important difference between the responsibility of a party leader who is liberal. There are people who can't quite be said to share my enthusiasm for the platform's equality part, and that's the opposition, who was early about criticising and characterising the government's equality policy – yes, almost before you had pulled the platform. But the problem is that the opposition has apparently become so concerned with their own communication strategy that they have completely forgotten to check if it matches reality. Let me do some very specific numbers. In 2013 he worked 40 pst. of women part-time, in 2017 the number was 37 pst. On a full-time basis, the proportion has increased from 60 pst. to 63 pst. This is equal to 52,000 more women on a full-time basis. There are 29,000 more women leaders in 2017 than in 2013, both in the private and public sectors, and in the state sector there are 56 pst. by the leaders of women. The share of women in directors of state-owned companies was 45 pst. at the end of March 2018, against 36 p.m. in March 2014. I could still, because the list is much longer, but I have to finish now. I just want to say that there's a lot to do in gender equality policy, and I'm glad that this platform provides a solid basis for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e4873	I have been sitting in the hall and in the office and joined this debate, and I would say that for those who come along as long as now, and who have followed the streaming, it must appear as a bit of a strange and difficult debate. How should they distinguish between position and opposition? Well, they can find some common denominators, I think: the government parties are suspense-painting, the opposition is black-painting, maybe - or not? It might depend on what you focus on in society, and what you've done in that way. If you take the starting point of the Right and Advance Party speakers, I agree with that. We are talking about Norway going so far that business thrives, that growth is increasing, that people are happy – the happiest country in the world almost. Oil, gas and salmon are produced and exported as never before – this is true. Even the infrastructure is being built: more for transportation, and we can move more easily in this country. But if you were to have an ideology that puts justice in the center, both today and in the future, and if you want to focus on less differences and better environment, we'll ask a little other question: who benefits the growth? To whom is the tax liability to be granted? How is it produced? What kind of products are produced? What kind of growth are we going to have? What kind of transport are we going to have? There are such questions that separate these two blocks into large sections. There is no problem in agreeing that it is going to go down in this country, at least for the elite, yes, for the interlayer also perhaps – if you don't think of those who have the most difficulty, those who haven't entered the housing market, for example, or those who have had petty cuts, or if one blinks their eyes again for the future. That's what shows the differences: what kind of values we want, what we want to focus on -- whether we just want economic growth, just want to produce more, just get us faster by car, don't think so much about the benefits or to distribute the values, maybe? Then it's all great, then it's great. Then I agree with, for example. The representatives Trellevik and Schou from the Right. They rose-painted developments under the Right Party and Advance Party regime. But some of us are asking these questions about the future, about the threats to nature, climate and humanity, about the threat to social justice, solidarity and the Nordic model, for which we are concerned. With increasing competition, centralisation and privatisation, important changes are taking place, and this is happening very quickly. What worries me the most is not that the tax profile has changed, it can change with a government change, but the privatisation, part of the structural changes, worries me. We're going to try to change it in a couple of years.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e4888	The municipal self-government received little attention from the prime minister in her post, even though the government statement has a passport that it needs to be strengthened. But I wonder if this is only taken because it had to be included, because on the government platform otherwise there is a lot to suggest that we get more state and less municipality in the future. Several representatives from the government are talking about less power in this room and more to people at the grassroots. But it seems that the municipalities will have more freedom to do so, is build down cultivated and cultivated land, which also the Right and Advance Party showed by voting against the ground-based protection of soil yesterday. Destruction of food soils should be managed by municipalities, but how one should run the municipalities, who they should cooperate with, whether they should join forces, how one should run the care of the elderly, how one should organise parking, how one should organise, and whether one should take the nature and build wind power – the municipalities should not be controlled. There are major plans for wind power across large parts of Western Europe. A lot of people are worried about what it does to nature. Many are afraid that it can affect both those who live there and travel life negatively, and travel life is one of the most growing industries in the West. For me, it should of course be that in the municipalities that say no, it should not be expanded. This is a decision that can be made if the inhabitants are not satisfied with their municipality. They can convert it into options. The only thing that can't be undone is a submerged area. Today, there has been a lot of protest from the government party when it comes to police reform and most of it, and they talk about them being out talking to the people and just getting positive feedback. They cannot have read studies carried out on police reform. At least they haven't been in the communities that I've been in, where one has a completely different sense of reality. There are people hired to travel long distances to get the seasonal workers approved in fruit cultivation. They're tired of traveling far to get a passport, and they're afraid that they should also have to travel far to get a certificate or get an animal transport trailer approved. That's what's real for people out there.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e4899	The representative of Kolberg's economic lecture deserves to be supplemented. Any tax causes an efficiency loss to households or a private enterprise, the so-called tax wedge. A municipality is a monopoly, and what characterises monopolies, whether private or public, is that they run expensive and often have poor service. I do not mean to say that all municipalities have poor service, but there are some common features. Nor is there any basis for saying that all municipalities that have introduced property taxes provide better services than those that do not. You can also find examples of the opposite. The message is that before you run after the last tax option, you have to turn all the stones. Municipalities are monopolies, they don't have the competition that the left-hand side unfortunately doesn't like. So to the representative Navarsete: I noticed that in her two posts she said different things about Homeland. In her first, there was a reduction of Homeland Protection, in her second post she praised the government for strengthening Homeland Protection. Hold on to the last post, that's what's true. HV is strengthened by new vehicles and new small arms and exercises much more than under the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e4906	The representative, Willfred Nordlund, has spoken twice earlier and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e4911	The Prime Minister made a relatively brief statement yesterday, where she went through what I must assume is the main priorities of the government, based on the Granavolden Declaration. It is interesting to note that fish were not mentioned, but perhaps more specifically, what the government and the Stortinget have defined as Norway’s main foreign policy areas, namely the northern regions, was not mentioned in a single word. There's some eye-catching and real reason to ask if it's drawing a picture of what's going to be the entrance when the government says you're going to deliver a new north area message. The Arctic offers great opportunities, but also some limitations, as we have witnessed this winter. I therefore believe it would have been appropriate that the Prime Minister had taken up the future's north-eastern actions, but I record that they did not choose to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e4918	I notice that the president has a slightly lighter style than his colleague in the British House of Commons, but I think we can learn a lot from what the British have when they get temperature in the hall. Some complain about the temperature of this debate. I think it's been quite straightforward, we have to bear that that's how it is. I met the Vice-Chairman of the Right in a radio debate today early and heard – before I had drunk coffee – that I was cowardly and fluffy. It was a start that at least started the engagement. I'll draw myself another drawing to keep a final post, but I'm going to give an explanation of vote, because there's a lot of suggestions here that there's a reason to clarify. The Labour Party will vote in favour of all the SV and Red proposals and for the proposals No. 3, paragraph 5, paragraphs 7, point 8, paragraph 9, paragraph 12, paragraphs 13 and No 13 14 from the Center Party. As regards proposal No: 4, from the Center Party, it might be interesting to look at that proposal together with our conciliators in the predatory settlement, but we are not ready to deal with such a proposal without a properly prepared case. Proposal No. 8 from the Center Party, it's important. We need better rescue helicopter preparedness in Troms. I would point out that we support the intention of this proposal. A professional investigation may be necessary, and my colleague Cecilie Myrseth has been involved. Proposal No. 11, from the Centre Party: The Labour Party agrees that new state activities should generally be established outside Oslo, but the rest of the proposal cannot be supported, and that will in any case require much more thorough treatment than such a proposal on the table. We will therefore vote against it. Proposals Nos. 7 and No 12, from the Central Party, we will therefore vote in favour, because the debate in the Chamber today and the media performances from Asheim and Raja show there is a need to clear up the matter of taxation of benefits in kind. That is why we shall vote in favour of proposal No. 7, with the following clarification: The amount of the freedom to provide benefits in kind of NOK 10000 shall apply to hard work in commercial events carried out over a short, limited period of time. It will solve the challenge for a number of concert organisers who depend on hard work. Finally, proposal No. 12: During the day we have received many examples that new tax rules create problems for people. We can see that from the feedback. For example, bus drivers will no longer receive free bus tickets without taxing them, as they have previously received. Here, we believe that the government must take a step back and come up with a more elaborate scheme that does not fundamentally break what most people will perceive as reasonable. I would like to stress that we still believe that the general rule should be that benefits in kind should be taxed, because people should have wages for which taxes, employers' taxes and pensions are paid. At the same time, however, we must not create major problems and huge red tape of small things, so here we believe there must be another round.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e4930	I don't want to guarantee that I will draw again – or not – it depends a little on what is said in the next posts. I want to make some reflections at the end of the debate. There has been a long and quite comprehensive debate. Many pages have been affected. The centre party has today made a number of proposals. The proposals have the green line that they deal with many of the issues that our representatives have also been dealing with during the debate, namely the need to see the whole country and listen to the whole of Norway, the need to take up the debate on an unsocial charging policy that affects people in an unreasonable way, and also the discussion on the use and management of Norwegian natural resources and Norwegian value creation. Many of our proposals are linked to it. One of them acts, for example: on a CO 2 fund for heavy transport, which is far overdue, which should have come a long time ago, because it is one of the most important, most concrete and most effective climate action we can imagine. It helps so little to set new targets in climate policy if one does not soon also start to take action as real monks. This measure — if it had been effective — could probably cut three–four times as much as the ant of which the Left is very concerned, or many times as much as part of the other measures, among others. a fee on cupramp. It is incomprehensible that it is not possible to make greater progress in that work, and that is the background to the involvement of the Centre Party in that proposal. Today we've got a majority government. I am not going to be chairman, but I have to say, after the debate, that I wish one were a little cautious about being overconfident, because there are some cracks in the façade already on the day the government statement is debated. In the case of predatory game, the Progress Party has been out and told them to instruct the government. I don't know how they're going to do it. The representative who has been out in the media and said so is not in the main hall today either. But I understand that the Advancement Party, and probably also many in the Right, is dissatisfied. I think that's a good reason for that, especially because the Right parliamentary leader today said that it was allowed to be killed on four wolves. It's not. It is the predators who have recommended that it be common to four wolves. This government will not deal with the predators. So I shouldn't be surprised if that decision is filed with the Ministry of Climate Change, one shouldn't be much of a fortune-teller to predict it, and probably you get a blank no. But there is today the opportunity to vote in favour of the two proposals of the Central Party on predatory game, which can provide better and more sensible management of predatory game policy. Time goes so fast by three minutes. Then I will also come back and draw up a new post to say more about matters and debate related to tonight's meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e4948	There's been a long debate, but we're going to hold on a little bit more, because there's some things that might be worth resuming towards the end. Firstly, I thought it was very interesting that the parliamentary leader of the Right, Trond Helleland, went so far into the discussion on how to deal with the red-green government negotiations in 2021. Then I just want to say that we haven't gotten that far in planning it, because there's another time, but I'm glad that Greece has begun to think about it already and is set to do so. I thank you for that trust. There's one thing I notice when it comes to the Right, and that's that the Right now has begun to talk a lot about inequality. That's good, because it shows that the government is in the process of taking over the deep public unrest that exists over the fact that differences in power and wealth are increasing in Norway. But what this debate has revealed very clearly, and as we can also read out from the government statement, is the lack of political will to go into and do something about the greatest challenges in meeting the inequalities, for example.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t how we can turn the unsocial cuts that the bourgeois majority has made towards a number of the people who have the least in Norwegian society how we can judge the tax system so that it does not work for the benefit of the economic elite, but actually becomes more redistributive again how we can gain more control over a housing market that has run wild – no civil representatives have talked about it, they have only been concerned with telling how important it is that property should still not be taxed more than marginally in Norway What we're going to do with the situation we're in in work, where the 10 pst. the lowest paid barely has had real wage growth in the last decade We are constantly told from the Right that we will not go into the debate on immigration when we talk about inequality, and that is striking when we repeatedly see this reluctance from the Right to enter into a very central debate related to the inequalities, that is, the premise on how labour immigration is going to work in Norway. On top of that, we have the debate on the tax deduction for the union quota, which for me is a kind of symbol of this government's lack of understanding of the level of organisation and the importance of trade union movement in keeping the differences down. There are new promises of tax relief to people with stock assets. The only group that is promised in this government statement that they will not receive any tax relief are people who are part of a trade union.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e4974	I would like to thank the opposition party for the debate. I also want to take the largest opposition party and party leader Gahr Støre seriously when he closes his main post today with a promise to meet the government with factual, clear criticism, although unfortunately there was little in the post that corresponded to the conclusion. Instead, he chose an approach in which reasonably undocumented claims such as that the Christian People's Party and the Left secure multiples for increasing differences and more to those who have the most already dominated. The country's sovereign most resource-intensive party has clearly spent time and consulting capacity on breaking out a communication strategy where characterisation over contributions to a factual, informative debate is the rule, among other things. has the title of government as a right-wing government being a replay — a claim that has been made to fall on its own urism. On the contrary, the platform is the spectre of policies that have not only pushed policy towards the centre, but also has a heartwarming and caring for those who need it the most, to which several opposition parties had difficulty matching last time they put themselves in government, and to which the Left has contributed heavily. There is a large-scale effort to combat child poverty, for example. free core time in the nursery of low-income families is now also extended to the school leave scheme, and where for the first time in 10 years child benefit is increased monthly for those who need it most – families in the establishment phase of small children. There is a record of early school effort, the most important tool we have for social smoothing. These are better student support schemes. It is a comprehensive inclusion tool to lower the threshold in working life for those who, for various reasons, have difficulty getting a job. There is a great deal of effort to secure existing jobs and make it easier to create new ones. Russ reform is being implemented – drug addicts are going to get help, not punishment. Low-threshold services are being passed on – deciding to save lives and secure worthy lives. I could have maintained and demonstrated the footprints of the Left in climate, environment, green growth, higher education, research, technology development, transport, district policy, international solidarity and animal welfare. After a long debate and evening, however, I shall conclude by reminding the assembly that the Left Party celebrates its 135th anniversary this week. The left has so far in history divided into 22 different governments – pure Left Governments, fantastic, but we also have extensive experience in different constellations and really look forward to working closely with the Christian People's Party, Right and the Progress Party of the Years to Come.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e4983	It has been interesting to listen to the debate today, and I must say that I am sitting with a feeling that some of the posts have been written before reading the platform. Some characteristics of policy areas have been identified in the platform in which it is difficult to fully recognise. When increasing disparities have become one of the headlines together with increased privatisation and a colder society, one has been selective and deliberately choosing to skip much of the policy in the platform that will make a difference in people's everyday lives and contribute to a warmer society. Balancing, of course, is about the distribution of heads and ears, but it's not just about that. It is also about being able to receive important services such as free core time in kindergarten and SFO, offers that take individual students’ challenges seriously and provide help and support on the basis of individual assumptions. It is a matter of providing public services and services to parents with long-term illness, offering competent coordinators who can be with the family and who are the support that can ensure proper competence and timely assistance in very demanding phases of family life. However, it is also about improving the one-off benefit for young women who have children without having been in the job in advance — in a few years it is doubled. It is also about increasing the benefit of families with children through a historical increase in child-responsibilities – a targeted measure that well-being researchers can confirm to reduce child poverty. And through the leisure card, families with children aged 6 to 18 are given the opportunity to participate in leisure activities without the family’s economy becoming an obstacle – an important contribution for families with a weak economy, but also a contribution to voluntary Norway, which can recruit new members through the scheme. So it's interesting to notice what you haven't taken up by priority policy from the platform. I have not heard many critical comments either on agricultural policy or on fisheries policy, nor on the promise we make to the ideals of the platform, to mention some areas. What color should one then be able to say that this platform has got? In the Christian People's Party, we've been getting good at color codes for the last six months, especially the colors blue, yellow and red. And as one of those who have particularly good insight into what kind of policy is behind the yellow color, I feel as well qualified to claim that we have got a government in Norway that has been clearly drawn closer to the yellow color, closer to the center, than we had before. Now let's get the opportunity to put the policy into practice, and of course we should also take responsibility for the results. Then, too, we in the Christian People's Party, as the Prime Minister stressed in his statement yesterday, hope that it will be possible to make a broad deal with the opposition in some important areas where we can meet in a common policy. The Christian People's Party does not support any of the proposals that have been promoted in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e4998	It's not to be rude, but let me say that there's a lot of good things in this platform -- it's not to be cowardly or to bluff either, I mean it -- like it's in any budget in Norway. To the representative of Bollestad: Yes, the Christian People's Party has received many good things. I think they could get into any government platform in this room. She mentioned the ideals, and it says a lot about the ideals, and she asked some questions about who had gotten in one and the other, and I think the answer to the question was Christian People's Party. But I also want to remind you that the Christian People's Party was with the opposition in this room to attach a number to where the ideal position was to be in child protection to resist the commercial displacement of them. It was against the votes of the government parties. It says something about direction and what's the reality, so we'll wait and see. It's fine with an increased child's pension of 80 kroner a month, but if the children's playground increases by 120 kroner, something happens about the economy and the possibilities that families have. A number of questions have been asked about direction in the debate. In what direction does this budget take us? That is why there has not been so much discussion about fisheries and agricultural policy, which we have had in good professional debates since. But we believe that this platform is moving us towards increasing differences, for example. in the case of welfare in the municipalities. I have asked several questions: What is the Swedish model that will now be implemented in the municipalities, which will give greater freedom of choice? It has not given greater freedom of choice in Sweden. There have been bankruptcies in the care sector. There has been more bureaucracy, more control and a ‘fixed track’ for the commercial over the ideals. It is as the representative of Kolberg said: combined with tax cuts, it does not give freedom of choice to the many, but it increases differences in the long term. The representative of Trond Helleland was asked repeatedly about what he thought about the 10 pst. which is at the bottom of the income scale, had actually fallen in recent years. It is not that all boats are lifted when the sea rises. They've actually gotten worse. More people come to work, says the representative of Helleland. Yes, these people are at work, and they fall. It's because there's a mess in the world of work that it's not being cleaned up, and there's conditions that aren't being taken seriously. You're going in the wrong direction. Siv Jensen has said that the Progress Party is now satisfied because their proposal is no longer being changed and voted down in the Stortinget, but gets through in the government. Now we see the results, and I agree with the representative Gruvan that they are the ones on which it has to be measured. We're going to be a clear opposition, we're going to take responsibility, and we're going to show that there are alternatives that take Norway in the right direction. We're going to do it like the Workers' Party, and we're going to do it with other opposition parties -- mostly with our closest partners, the Center Party and the SV -- and show that there's an alternative to this government. And of course, we're going to take responsibility where it's natural and proper for the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e5015	I have to mention a few more issues that have been central to today's debate. One relates to the issue of introducing a tax on voluntary work related to maturing or cultural and sporting events, or the benefits of employment, which is now subject to taxation. The centre party really appreciates the fact that central people in the government parties, like Abid Q. Raja, say that this is unwise, and that the finance committee leader Henrik Asheim says right away that this is going to be seen as bureaucratic and petty. We think that's right; that's what it's going to be perceived as. That's what it's going to look at as. That is why we have today made proposals that a boat should reverse what is involved in taxes on benefits related to work, and that one should increase the limit on benefits in kind associated with events. Then I would like to stress that events are usually limited in time. An event is just that – an event for a short period of time. I appreciate that they were so clear about it, and I would like everyone to vote for the proposal of the Central Party tonight, but this is a debate that continues. There's another debate that's been interesting today, and that's been a little bit about electricity and electricity prices, but it's really about a lot more than that. Henrik Asheim, like, went to the overture. He said that we have been very wise in the way we have managed the natural resources, the oil, the gas and the hydropower, and we should be happy about that. Yeah, we're happy about that. One must almost say that we have managed them well despite the right parties – despite the Right Party and the Advance Party – when we think of the fall-back debates and privatisation debates related to oil and gas. But the balance sheet and the values we've created of those natural resources are extremely important. The electricity debate has a little connection with this, because in Norway we have always tried to balance the way in which one chooses to use the power for value creation. The power industry should be allowed to evolve, but not on its own. Industry must also be given its share of power as a competitive advantage for Norwegian industry, and we must also take account of consumers. That is the balance that the government is about to forget when they choose to ignore both the importance of increasing the electricity charge, the importance of establishing more and more cables to the continent, and the importance of the promise that one now has to make on the website, and that is going to be so costly that one cannot afford to charge the kind of fees that the electricity charge adds. I am concerned about how the Right Party, the Advance Party and the new government are going to manage that balance in the years to come. That's one of the reasons for concern, and that's also one of the reasons why the Central Party is promoting the proposals around the area that we're doing here tonight.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e5026	I would like to congratulate Mr Breivik on his presentation. The left was a very good game 135 years ago, so I think we can join, all of us – yes, not in the Right, maybe, but all of us! [[muttering in the hall]] But to this we have said 'high-ranking': it is a question of the direction of policy, and in what areas we see clearly in what was previously an open situation in the Grand Duchy, with the possibility that policies could take different directions, that there will now be a much greater chance of the long lines of the right. We see it, for example. in climate policy, where unfortunately the Left and the Christian People's Party have said away the possibility of more cross-block cooperation, which is needed more in climate policy than in any other matter, because the dividing lines simply do not follow the traditional block divisions. This government statement lacks the concrete measures needed to bring emissions down. It has many new objectives, ambitions and investigations – such as we have more than enough of them in Norwegian climate policy – but lacks concrete measures and lacks an invitation to a climate settlement that could enable many of us to find and work together with what is our greatest common challenge. It is disappointing, and then the government parties will also hear it in this debate. I am pleased, as the representative of Gruvan points out, that the ideals of the government statement are very fine, but it is not right that we from the opposition have not also pointed out problems with that. For what is not in the government statement, the absolutely necessary restrictions on the commercialisation of Norwegian welfare must be met if the objectives of an increased proportion of ideals in welfare are to be achieved. Then we can't have a development where there are more and more actors in child protection, in kindergartens, in care for the elderly and in the care of the russian population coming in to make money. Then we have to make sure that every penny of taxpayers' money goes to the well-being of the many and not to the fortunes of a few. Olaug Bollestad instead asked "who?" and thought, I believe, by saying that the bourgeois have done the most for the ideals. Well – who re-entered the child protection bids? Who is holding their hand over the commercial players? That's the right-hand side. So here too is the Christian People's Party in the wrong company.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e5035	It's been a bit of a tight birth for the new government. When the two junior partners in the government have a riot approaching the Reds, there are not very merry conditions on the civil side. So it's not exactly spraying them, it's too understandable. The government platform shows that this coalition is basically creating the worst of two worlds. On the one hand you get the Christian People's Party's somewhat conservative and retrospective value policy, and at the same time you get the Right Taxation Policy for the Economic Elite. If there is one group that really has reason to be extra satisfied today, there are the rich right uncles, who are now getting both the continuation and the reinforcement of tax cuts and have also made sure to have a clear majority in the Great Britain behind that policy. So for them this is a very good day, but for all of us it's probably not an equally pleasant day. We now see that in a situation where one quarter of private care in Norway is controlled by one company based in the tax haven of Luxembourg, owned by two men who are among the world's 200 richest – what the Left says is called female entrepreneurs – we have a government platform that has no measures at all to combat profit in welfare and ensure that the ideals are not displaced by the commercial ones, as we see in the industry by industry. So I have little hope that the Christian People's Party will make changes there, but I have hope that the government parties will remember what they themselves proposed and voted for in 2011, at the previous power shock period. So it was the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party that proposed to give support to those who receive state housing, to get through the winter and to have warmth in their apartments. I would appeal to the citizens to stand for the same policy that they had just a few years ago. Now they're in position. Now they can be involved in adopting this, which was unanimously adopted by the Stortinget in 2012, and ensure that those who really have bad advice in this country must not experience that they cannot afford to warm up their home. Here, then, is the chance to pursue a slightly less unsocial policy, and I hope that the Stortinget will take this evening.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e5046	I would like to thank you for a long and – I think – good debate. I'm glad that the government platform creates enthusiasm in its own ranks, and I may not be surprised that it doesn't create so much enthusiasm in the opposition. It's the opposition's job. The old nature photographer Arne Nävra summed it up quite well that it becomes a little black and white, and that where we think everything is brilliant, the opposition thinks that much is bad. Well, now the extended government has been sitting for a few days, and the Workers' Party's speechwriters obviously haven't read the platform well enough, because they call it the Right Government all the time. Right-wing government was Kåre Willoch who had from 1981 to 1983. This is a government with 22 members – criticised by some that there are many. There are nine right-wing members of this government. It is therefore a majority of the other three parties – the Progress Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party. There is no Right-Registration. It's called the Solberg government, or if it's hard to tell the Workers Party, they can say the government. Because that's the government we're talking about -- not the Right Government. Having said that, I appreciate estimates of the desire for constructive cooperation and of being able to take the Storting seriously. Our ambition, and my ambition as parliamentary leader in the Right – it is for the Right, and not for the Government – is to invite the Stortinge to be constructive, to have a cooperation on difficult matters. It's cold out, and then the power price becomes a theme – naturally. But we cannot solve everything through individual proposals in general debates. We need a little knowledge-based policy. We need to focus on what the government is actually promoting, but the big group – and the big groups in the four government parties – will listen to good proposals from the opposition. We're going to take the opposition seriously when it moves, whether it's in society out there or here in the house. I want us to have good cooperation in the future, that we actually listen to professional investigations from the government – the government of Solberg – and that at the same time we use Stortinget as an active arena. Therefore, as I said, the right will not vote for any of the proposals that have been promoted today, but we want a good debate in the time to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e5057	Let me start by saying that I agree with what my good colleague in the right government party said. I also think the summary and characteristics of the debate by the representative Arne Nävra were quite striking. I didn't agree with everything he said, but I think it was quite striking. There has been a long debate, and sometimes you can ask yourself the question: Has anything new come up? Is there any new element in the debate? There is at least something new, and there is a new government platform. We've got a majority government, and it gives us greater power of action and greater predictability. And then it has to be the law -- without painting it -- to enjoy good results. It's a reality that we're experiencing very low unemployment. We have an increasing proportion of people employed, and we have a record in the number of start-ups. It contributes to the creation of jobs throughout the country. And we're building a new path across the country, too. New Roads are a success. It wasn't much help to get from the opposition in the beginning when we established the new road company, but we can now build better, more holistic and cheaper – and that's good. The policy works and produces results. At the same time, there are also challenges. Many have been involved in the near-police reform. The structure is established, but is not fully implemented, because the quality part will only be implemented in 2020. This means that there are still some challenges and certainly the need to make adjustments. It is demanding to carry out major reforms. There's no reason to hide it, but it's not black and white. Government parties are accused by the opposition of wanting to carry out large-scale privatisation in Norway. Let me put it this way: for the Progress Party, it is not crucial whether the service provision in different sectors is public or private. It is essential that competition is implemented in order to ensure freedom of choice and better quality of services, because there are very, very few examples that public monopolies – or private ones for that matter – are the best way to deliver good quality at reasonable prices. Therefore, it is through competition and interaction between the public and private sectors that we ensure the proper use of Community resources. Then I finally think that there's reason to remind ourselves that we live in a country that gives individuals good opportunities to succeed – through both education and work. The differences and differences are small, and I think we should take care of that because it contributes to both diversity and social mobility. A small explanation of vote: the Party of Presidents will not support the opposition's proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e5072	I almost wanted to say hallelujah. That's right now, with the new government. The opposition was not so enthusiastic about the new government. No, it would be a little bit. But the striking thing is that the position is so little enthusiastic for the new government. From this platform was presented, there has actually been a staggering amount of enthusiasm to track, and we have heard that many of the promises contained in this platform only apply for two and a half years. It's a break, and then there's a rematch on the different things. That's what I think is alarming. I think it is nice that my good colleague Helleland is so modest, he should take it as a compliment. So it's not the right-hand government with big h. There is a right-wing government in politics – it is to take this government platform seriously. The biggest breakthrough is for the Right and the Advance Party. There are right-wing policies — known from other countries, now more strongly implemented in Norway. It's obvious. So the representative of Greece, in his – what to say – easily instructive way, says that we have to make a deal as long as it's based on knowledge. I think we can all connect to that is a good starting point, but then the experience is pretty clear. I fully agree with my colleague Lysbakken, who says that climate is a typical field we should gather about in conciliation. We spent eight years in majority management and submitted two of them. This government has a minority, a cooperation agreement, and, in majority, no. It says something about the willingness to try to mobilize an entire country by starting at the national Parliament. As far as the police are concerned, it's kind of strange: first we have structure, then we take quality. I think police around the country will find that strange. Today, the police department is not in the police, it is in the courts where there is a discount for criminals because they are not allowed to deal with their cases. As a settlement partner for this, I would say that it is the government that has broken the agreement. The way they have treated the settlement partners is not to keep the settlement partners informed, to take them with them, to explain what is happening along the way. No, that's not how it works. We have the attitude that comes up with the good proposal, we should be positive about it. But with a government that we with very good coverage can call the right hand government, I don't think there's going to be a lot of such proposals. When this government has a majority, it will come forward with its proposals. It shall then meet with clear alternatives. That's our responsibility, and we're going to do that with great enthusiasm.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e5088	I can promise that we will continue working with more good names of the government and launch them gradually, but since we have now entered well the fifteenth hour of the debate, I will not take any more of them now – it is nodded. But I have to make a brief explanation of vote, so do I. The SV Group will vote in favour of the proposals No. 5, 6, 8, 9, 10, 12, and 14 from the Center Party. In addition, we shall vote in favour of proposal No. 15 from Red. It should be said that here Red and SV have obviously worked in parallel with the same idea. That's not so strange, because many people are concerned about the situation that people with bad advice get in when the power price increases. But we have come to the conclusion that a representative proposal is a good idea, both because it may seem that the government parties also need a little more time to think about the matter, and because we think it is wise to have an opportunity to expand such a support scheme in addition to those who are receiving housing support, which has become fewer. But it would be nice to vote against Red's proposal when the intention is the same, so we also vote for it. In addition, surprisingly, we will vote in favour of our two own proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e5095	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e5107	Then Stortinget is ready to go to the vote on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e5116	A total of 15 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Audun Lighthouse on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, the proposals No 3-14, from Marit Arnstad on behalf of the Centre Party proposal No 15, from Bears Moxnes on behalf of Red Proposal No. 10, from the Central Party, is identical in the view of the President to a proposal submitted to the Stortinget on 15 November 2018 and is therefore not being considered, cf. Article 38, fifth paragraph, first sentence, of the Rules of Procedure of the Grand Duchy. There is a vote on proposal No. 15 from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a one-off payment of exceptional housing aid to remedy the situation of those most affected by the sharp increase in electricity prices this winter and return to Stortinget with proposals for additional appropriations if necessary.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left have announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e5147	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking, in the context of the draft State budget for 2020, for proposals for a phasing-out plan to increase the deduction of the trade union quota.’;» The Labour Party and Red have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e5164	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking to initiate a climate reconciliation between the parties in Stortinget, with a view to bringing together measures and instruments to reduce Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions in line with Norway’s reinforced greenhouse gas cut target by 2030.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e5181	There is a vote on proposal No. Three, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is requesting immediate follow-up of the decisions of the Government to grant a licence to the wolves of Manganese and Hobby so that the killing can take place during the current licensing period. The period of licensing shall be extended if necessary in such a way that those wolf flocks are removed.’;» The Labour Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e5198	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4 and 11, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to submit proposals for the legalisation of the Stortinget’s current stocking target for gaupe, yew, bear and wolf.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to submit a case on a plan for the allocation of State jobs across the country, in line with an ambition that 5,000 jobs will be taken out of Oslo during the period 2019-2025. The minimum half of the jobs shall be added to small and medium-sized municipalities. New state activities shall, as a general rule, be established outside Oslo, with the same distribution between small, medium-sized and large municipalities as for relocation.»
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e5221	It went a little fast here. I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e5226	The result is that 86 voted against and 12 voted in favour of the proposals of the Central Party – and therefore the proposals are not accepted. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5, 8, 9, 12, and 14 from the Center Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to conclude negotiations with the NHO on a binding environmental agreement on a CO 2 business fund so that the proposal can be dealt with in the context of the State budget for 2020 and the Fund can operate from 1 January 2020.’;» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government requests the permanent establishment of rescue helicopter preparedness in Troms based on Bardufoss.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government to instruct the Police Directorate to stop all decommissioning and cut off the resources of the officers’ offices until the consequences of the police reform have been evaluated.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asked to propose, in the context of the revised National Budget 2019, to reverse the recently introduced changes in the taxation of benefits in kind and, if appropriate, to the national budget in 2019. in the context of the State budget 2020, come back with more elaborate proposals that do not impose excessive burdens on individual groups and low-wage or increase the bureaucratic burden on businesses.» Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asked to come back with a review of the geographical and social consequences of the tax increases and cuts made between 2013 and 2019.’ The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e5271	There is a vote on proposal No. Six, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to suspend the processing of the NorthConnect concession application.’ The Socialist Left and Red have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e5288	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 7 and 13, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government requests proposals to be submitted by the government to ensure that, in the event of commercial events in the cultural and sporting sectors, participants can receive benefits in kind of up to NOK 10000 per year without triggering the obligation to pay taxes on the organiser’s voluntary or reporting obligations.’; Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the share of tolls does not increase further during this large-scale period.’ The Labour Party and Red have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e5312	The President will propose that the statement of the Government held at the meeting of the Grand Duchy on 29 January 2019 be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-30.ana.ud469e5325	There is no record. This means that the matter's map has been processed. Is anyone asking for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
