ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e71	Representatives Svein Harberg, Åshild Bruun-Gundersen, Himanshu Gulati, Abid Q. Raja, Per Olaf Lundteigen, Silje Heimdal, Mona Fagerås, Olemic Thommessen, Ingrid Heggø, Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen, Kirsti Leirtrø and Tage Pettersen, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. Two permit applications are available: from Mr Ketil Kjenseth on welfare leave from 12 February to 20 February from the Workers' Group on the Permit of the Representative of the Åsunn Lyngedal from 13 February to 15 February to attend the OECD Parliamentary Meeting in Paris On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For the county of Nordland: Kjell-Idar Juvik 13-14. February For Uppland County: Thon Hagaseth. 12–20. February
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e159	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Storting meeting today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Svein Harberg and Ingerd Schou. – Other proposals are not available, and Svein Harberg and Ingerd Schou are unanimously elected as chairpersons of today’s meeting. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e181	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e190	In Norway, we have been good at exploiting our natural resources, and not least we have been good at managing those in the sea. We've been fishing all those years, we've been using the seaway as an important trading year, and for 50 years we've been creating great values and revenues for the community through oil and gas extraction. Important competences have been built on sea-deep operations and on advanced water-borne ships. Norway is a proud port, and it is natural that we are now rigging to extract minerals on the continental shelf. The Mineral Act is an important step towards facilitating the extraction of minerals on the seabed. There is broad support for this law, but the Committee has pointed out that there should have been a NOO and that it would provide an even better basis for the law. Furthermore, we point out that the law has to be followed up quickly with a new case in which the tax incentives get their framework, because the industry needs predictable framework conditions, and we see this as the first step. Mineral activities on Norwegian continental shelf and in territorial waters have so far been limited to the extraction of gravel, sand and clay. This Act shall facilitate studies after extraction of mineral deposits on Norwegian continental shelf. This must be done in accordance with social objectives in order to safeguard the interests of value creation, security, other industrial activities, the environment and other interests. Exploitation of minerals on the seabed can become an important industry in the future, as we see it. So far, the extent of these results and resources has been limitedly monitored, and commercial extraction of mineral deposits will be well ahead of time. Exploitation will involve the development of new technologies, the development of all legislative requirements and environmental impact studies. In the Committee, we have stressed the importance of the interaction and cooperation of the different maritime industries in order to find good solutions for all industries. This law is like starting a new and exciting journey for a new industry, for new opportunities and for the nation of Norway. A large majority of the Committee supports the main line of using the model Norway established to extract oil and gas, with partnerships between the Norwegian state and private companies and stringent environmental requirements, because it has proved to be a success. In view of the challenges we have seen in the petroleum industry in terms of wages and working conditions for seafarers, we in the Workers' Party are particularly concerned that it will facilitate a safe and serious working life. Therefore, we will already signal that those who work for subcontractors related to exploration and extraction must be allowed to work under Norwegian working conditions. The need for metals and other mineral raw materials is increasing. Then more extraction is needed, but also more recycling and longer life on the products we produce. Norway should use our existing expertise on the base and build on it to become a leader in knowledge of mineral activities on the seabed. The Working Party proposes that consideration be given to the establishment of a dedicated mineral prospecting resource centre in Norway. Finally, I would like to point out that it is now decided that the King of the Council of State may decide to open a restricted area of Norwegian continental shelf to mineral activities. Furthermore, it is stated that an impact assessment will be carried out first and that it will be consulted via the OED, the Ministry of Oil and Energy. But I also want to show that there is a shared committee behind this. As the rapporteur, I present the proposals and thank the Committee for its work on a matter which is technically but incredibly important for the future extraction of minerals on the continental shelf, increased value creation and creation of new jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e213	The representative Else-May Botten has taken up the proposals of which the Workers' Party is part.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e218	We're writing a little bit of a story today. Prop. Manager 106 L for 2017-2018 may be the start of a new industry standard that we have only seen the title of. The contents, which can be a new story for Norway, are still being written. If we look at the projections for popular development, we'll be about two billion more in 2050 than we are today. In addition, we are all working to improve the standard of living for those who today have the least on earth. This will require us to find new solutions and new deposits of minerals and materials that underpin sustainable global growth. This comes in addition to the fact that we have to provide more and more services for the circular economy, which will be further worked in parallel from the government's side. In the Granavolden platform, we have seen Norway as a transitional country in the development of the circular economy, making better use of resources. But this isn't enough to cover the world's mineral needs. The sea is pointed out by this government as a bet area in the future, and there is a great potential in it. The Earth is covered by about 70 pst. sea, and we've explored only a small fraction of the resources that the sea and what's below the seabed provide. We have lived well for hundreds of years on what the sea has given us, first in the form of marine product and for the past 50 years also in the form of petroleum. We've managed to manage this in a resilient and good way. Now there are new opportunities for Norway and Norwegian business here, with mineral and metal resources picked up from the bottom of the sea. These resources will be necessary for the transition to the renewable society, including: in solar cells, wind turbines, battery packs for electric cars and battery hybrid ships. We see that this is currently an immature industry, and that a great deal of technology has to be developed before the occurrence becomes interesting and can be exploited for commercial operations. Nevertheless, we believe that technology development based on the knowledge we have acquired in the oil and gas sector will be a good starting point for Norwegian interests to take a position in this area. The legislative proposal is designed within the framework of modern sea law and is based on experience from other Norwegian enterprises on the continental shelf. The state's ownership of mineral deposits and exclusive rights to resource management are not guaranteed. Before permitting mineral activity in an area, an authority-controlled opening process shall be carried out, with its consistency, as we know from the petroleum industry. Since this is a new industry, there is still some work to be done in this field. This applies, for example, to special rules for the taxation of income from exploitation. They will become active if and when the long-term enterprise becomes profitable. At that time, the principle that income should benefit society is firm. Such taxation of income will be regulated by tax legislation. In the long run, it may also be necessary for a resource center to operate. We believe it is too early to decide on such a question now, and therefore we do not support the submission as it is now leading to. It is important to note that the legislative proposal states that mineral activities should be carried out in a defensive manner and take care of the security of personnel, the environment and economic values represented by devices and vessels. All reasonable measures shall be taken to avoid damage to the marine life of animals and plants, marine, marine, marine and terrestrial cultural memories. It will be of great importance for all of us that all activities on the seabed take the necessary environmental considerations. This has been fixed in the provisional owner(s). It says that the laws should facilitate the exploration and extraction of mineral deposits on the base, in line with social objectives, so as to ensure that the value, environment and safety of the operation are taken care of. Finally, I would like to thank the President-in-Office for a forward-looking interaction with the members of the Committee, which has done the work on the proposal constructively and well.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e243	This thing can be the beginning of something big. Norway has always lived by the sea, and a new and own law on sea-bed minerals can be the beginning of new opportunities for marine value creation – or the seabed will be more accurate here. Mineral activities on Norwegian continental shelf have been limited and it is important to establish a framework that provides sufficient basis to ensure a broad societal interest if the activity on the pedestal increases. Taking into account the law on the petroleum industry must be very positive, with cooperation between state and private businesses that have been very successful, and have given us great revenues to society, skills development and important jobs. The ocean floor can contain many minerals that the world needs, and it can provide us with a high-income industry. When we see the increase in demand for, among other things. batteries and electronics, it is difficult to see this diminishing with the first, and it is probably also a great advantage that we ensure that Norwegian industry has access to such minerals. Norway has many advantages with the knowledge and competence we have about the sea and the ocean surface. Oil industry, shipping, aquaculture, the maritime sector – we have every opportunity to apply this to new business development. We have research environments, and we have a supplier industry that will be part of this industry. We're going to use these advantages. Now we are early out with a good framework around the activity, which can help to strengthen these advantages for Norway. Cooperation between industries on development and cooperation with existing industries must be the starting point. Norway has previously achieved good cooperation between industries at sea, and we must continue to use this opportunity. This is a complex work that we've just seen the beginning of, and we probably don't know how this is going to evolve. But we know that the sea bed hides many minerals like the world's demand. Then we need to ensure a law and a framework that ensures the possibility of increased activity, value creation, existing industries and necessary environmental considerations.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e258	The world's oceans are under increasing pressure. They are strongly threatened by pollution, acidification and loss of biodiversity. Norway has committed itself to the UN Sustainable Development Goal, where development objective No. 14 is to preserve and use marine and marine resources in a way that promotes sustainable development and with a partial objective of preventing, and implementing a strong reduction of, all types of marine pollution by 2025. Therefore, we should be careful when we start new activities on the seabed as well. At least we should take the time to get proper investigations before we adopt a new law that opens up what can become a very comprehensive business in the long term. Prior to the legal proceedings we have today, there is no such public investigation of the environmental consequences, or a separate legislative body. The legislative process has taken place very quickly in view of the impact that the law can have on the marine environment. In comparison, the mineral law is based on a separate public investigation, which includes, inter alia, the environmental impact of mining operations was assessed. Mineral extraction on the seabed can cause serious and irreversible damage to nature, especially on vulnerable ecosystems around active hydrothermal valves. These are the areas where the government also points to as the most promising areas for mineral extraction. These are rich and unique ecosystems that can hold species we don't know or know the benefits of today. Mineral extraction in these areas could seriously damage the hydrothermal valves. Current knowledge of the minerals on and below the seabed is also limited. We therefore do not know so much about the consequences of a large-scale extraction. An overall committee therefore believes that there is a need for more knowledge-gathering, and we are pleased – more knowledge-gathering about which species may be affected on the seabed, how special they are, and how they function in the ecosystems they have around them. Furthermore, an overall committee points to the importance of looking at ecosystems around active hydrothermal valves. Since an overall committee believes there is a need for more knowledge, we find it strange that the same majority will not take better time and make sure that we get more knowledge before we get started. This is one of the reasons why SV is involved and promotes the proposal to send the case back to the government to ensure better investigations before we possibly deal with the matter. There is no doubt that the need for minerals in the world will rise in the years to come, among other things. due to the large-scale and absolutely necessary deployment of renewable energy. It is therefore important to ensure that the increased consumption of minerals causes the least serious consequences for humans and the environment. The most environmentally friendly thing we can do today is recycle minerals that are already in use. About half of all the metals that have already been extracted are no longer in use. In other words, there are huge amounts of minerals and metals already extracted that should be exploited. We believe that the government should first and foremost have prioritised this rather than have an emergency treatment of a mineral law which, in our view, is too poorly investigated. With that, I take up the proposals No. 5–7.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e277	The representative Lars Haltbrecken has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e282	It's far this country, most of it's sea. Norway is five times more seas than country. Today, government parties, with the support of the Workers' Party and the Center Party, decide to open up the seabed for mining, and we do not know the consequences of life in the sea. We've mapped 90 pst. of the surface of Mars, 95 pst. of Venus, but only 10 pst. of the seabed on the Norwegian base. So we know more about the surface of other planets than we know about the areas that are now to be opened up for mining. Mining on the seabed has enormous consequences for the marine environment. The law is too poorly investigated, there's no public investigation behind it, no law selection, and it doesn't give the sea good enough protection where the seabed is vulnerable. That is why, together with SV, we propose to reject the bill. So in the last 40 years, we've already lost half of all fish, seabirds, whales and other animals in the ocean. In recent weeks, the Energy and Environment Committee has learned about a new nature type: black chimneys. From the black chimneys on the seabed, hot water flows up. It creates the basis of life for thousands of unique species. Some scientists think it was here, by the black chimneys, life on earth arose 3.7 billion years ago. Around one black chimney there may be as much life as in a tropical rainforest. Every black chimney can contain life forms we can't find anywhere else. Let's remember that the tropical rain forests on land have given us medications for cancer, malaria, heart disease and tuberculosis. Maybe there are smarter and more sustainable ways of exploiting the black chimneys than digging them up and destroying them, but we may never get the answer, because it's just the black chimneys government, with the support of the Workers' Party and the Center Party, now points out as the most interesting for mining on the seabed. We are in the midst of a renewable revolution, wind turbines and electric cars will need a lot of metals. Where we're going to get those metals, the government has already responded to the Granavolden platform: Norway is going to be a leading country in the circular economy. But as we've seen from this government, there's not always any connection between goals and instruments. The mines of the future are not under water, they are in the cities. And listen here: in Sweden, a lot of research is done on so-called urban mining, which in short, means recovering metals from electronics and infrastructure rather than extracting new ones. Research has found that 20 pst. of the underground cable network in Sweden is no longer in use. These are metals that are today excavated from mines, with the environmental impact it gives. There are also copper and other metals worth billions of dollars under our cities just waiting to be reused. Every year, Norwegians buy 2 million mobile phones, one mobile phone usually contains 40 different metals. One tonne of mobile phones contain 30–60 times more gold than one tonne ore from a gold mine. Nevertheless, only one in ten mobile phones are recovered today. The point is, of course, that opening the seabed to mining before we know anything about the potential of urban mining is the diametrical opposite of the circular economy. There's nothing historical – I've heard the word used several times in the hall today – that people find a new, virgin resource and take care of it, they were driving it all over the 20th century. This is the industrial age mindset, it's not the circular economy, it's the economic thinking of the old-fashioned industrial age. That is why the Greens are proposing today rather to ask the government to identify the potential for, among other things. ‘urban mining’ in the notified circular economy strategy. It is a proposal I hope in any case – in isolation – that the whole hall can be included. Moreover, the circular economy also provides many more jobs as a re-user and finds new ways of using resources than just using them once and then landfilling them. Perhaps sustainable mining on the seabed is possible – perhaps – but we do not know that since the government has not done enough preliminary work. And the areas in which the government will dig are the most unique areas on the seabed. It is far this country, most of it is sea, and the sea is under pressure from all sides. It's a commitment. That is why the Greens are today going to vote against the adoption of the Marine Minerals Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e299	We have lived by the resources and opportunities of the sea in impenetrable times. In Norway, we also have a long tradition of using marine resources. We harvest what the sea has to offer, fish, seafood and oil and gas, and the sea is also a beloved transport year. And we're doing this at the same time making sure that the marine environment is taken care of. We also have a long tradition of sound management of our natural resources, and we have managed them in a way that has benefited the entire Norwegian community. Keywords have been predictable framework conditions, care for environmental concerns, high value creation, good jobs and returns to the community. The aim of this government is to continue to be the best at sea and to facilitate the use of marine resources. In order to succeed, we need to ensure that the existing marine industries continue to grow, by continuing and further developing an effective, predictable and knowledge-based regulation of marine industries. At the same time, we're going to make arrangements for new emerging industries, and that's what this government is doing. I am therefore very pleased that we are now opening a new chapter in our maritime history by the Stortinge today is dealing with the law of marine minerals. This can be a new and exciting marine nutrition for Norway. The legislative proposal is based largely on the principles and experience of other activities on Norwegian soil, and in particular this applies to the petroleum law. The basic point here is that the authorities are demanding how the business is to be carried out and that the companies are responsible for the value creation, within the limits set by the authorities. This is a management model that has served us well, and that is also going to do so in the future. What we know is that the world will demand more minerals in the future. For example, each windmill and solar panel being installed requires large amounts of metallic minerals. The same is true of electric cars, computers, mobile phones – things we take for granted in our everyday lives. Such minerals are also found in areas other than those where they are currently produced, including on the Norwegian seabed. The Oil Directorate has launched the monitoring of the potential for sea-bed minerals on Norwegian continental shelf. Studies so far have been promising and have shown that this is a resource potential. Norway has a long experience in managing our natural resources properly. We have a world-leading competence environment in the traditional marine industries, and we have resource potential. This should be the best starting point for Norway to open up the search for and extraction of sea-bed minerals on Norwegian continental shelf. The legal basis for this is laid down in the legislative proposal under consideration today. That's why it's an important day, a day that can mean too many.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e314	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e320	I think I agree with the Council of State, which says this is a special day. Now, what we're up to right now, we really don't know the consequences, except that we have great faith that there's a lot of opportunities there, and that we have an experience with oil and gas extraction that helps us to do this in a proper way. It is an important framework condition to put in place this law, but the second step is the economic framework conditions, because when one laid down the basis for oil and gas extraction, it was incredibly important to get all the framework conditions in place. So I have a question to the Council of State: when we can imagine that we get a case for the Storting that goes on the financial framework conditions, like tax incentives, etc.? Can the Council of State be clear when step two comes into this matter? Because it's connected. Although it is not the energy and environmental committee that is to deal with it, it is important for the Storting to clarify this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e327	As I said in my speech, this is a new industry, and in the case of commercial interest for mineral development on Norwegian continental shelf, the need for specific rules for the taxation of income from the exploitation of these resources must of course be assessed. On the basis of this, it is assessed that if the activity becomes economically viable, income should benefit the entire community. The taxation of the income of activities is not proposed by law but will be regulated by ordinary tax law.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e332	An overall committee points out that there is a good deal of lack of knowledge about the extraction of minerals on the seabed, both the minerals that exist there, and, not least, the environmental consequences. My question to the Council of State is: why is it so urgent that you could not take time for a proper investigation until you sent this bill to Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e337	In Norway, we have a long tradition of sound management of our natural resources. Keywords here are predictable framework conditions, preservation of environmental considerations, high value creation, good employment and community income. The legislative proposal has come after a thorough legislative process that has included a broad consultation round, including: The Board of Governors stated that the bill was sufficiently well established. The legislative proposal requires an opening process before permits are granted under the law. An opening process would involve an impact assessment which would highlight the different interests involved in the area concerned. This will be the basis for considering whether and, where appropriate, the nature of the conditions under which an area is opened for mineral activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e342	I feel that I didn't get a complete answer to my question, what is it that makes it so urgent that you don't take the time to assess the environmental consequences prior to the promotion of the bill. Very familiar is not a queue of stakeholders to start this right away, and then, as you do on land, in advance of new laws, you should also get a proper environmental analysis of it. So I want to repeat my question: what is it that makes it so urgent this time that you couldn't have had such an investigation that several of the hearing bodies have also asked for?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e347	That's exactly what this law is all about, that we can do this in a way where the environmental considerations are taken care of as they should and must. In an impact assessment, an assessment of the environmental and economic impacts will form part of the impact assessment process with a view to opening an area for mineral extraction on the seabed. So I believe that the law provides a good framework that we have good experience with, among other things. from the petroleum sector, which ensures that we are well aware of all the considerations, including environmental considerations, to be taken into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e352	The Greens have never proposed to reject a legislative proposal before. We're doing it this time, because we think it's deeply irresponsible when the only thing we know for sure about these black chimneys where it now opens up to mining is that there are unique natural environments, unique species that don't exist anywhere else on the globe. Therefore, I continue a little on the same track as the representative Haltbrecken. What I want a clear answer to is: if, in an impact assessment, if it is where the knowledge is to be collected – and when the nutritionists are already inside the picture – does mineral extraction here mean that we are destroying this environment for these unique species, does that mean that the environment and the diversity of species in the sea will be put ahead of the nutritional interests? Because it's unclear in the bill, as it is now, whether it actually opens up to the protection of the areas that we see are vulnerable.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e357	Then I refer you to the answer I gave to the representative Haltbrecken. An opening process would involve an impact assessment which would highlight the different interests involved in the area concerned. This will be the basis for considering whether to engage in mineral activities and, where appropriate, the nature of the conditions under which an area is to be occupied. What is important here is that an assessment of the environmental and economic impacts will be included as part of the impact assessment process for opening up. If extraction becomes relevant, a new impact assessment is required for each project. It is not that an impact assessment is automatically also the opening of an area.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e362	Then I'm going to give the council a little bit more time to answer what was really my question, because it was: in situations where we find that this is going out on the environment, because it can do an impact assessment, and it's going to do it in these cases, the Storting has now really given the government the opportunity, that mandate, to consider what should be put first: the hornet – excuse me, President – after giving new business interests new opportunities to take out virgin resources on our globe, or taking care of the unique environments on the seabed that we know too little about, and that we might be able to take advantage of new kinds of things in other ways than to take them out and destroy them. Will the Council of State be ready to put the environment first where it stands up to commercial interests?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e367	It's hard to get out of the pulpit in Stortinget. What I'm pointing out is that we get a law, a framework, that deals with this in a very good way, where the balances pointed out here by the representative of Bastholm must and will be legally implemented – that we have a good system to make the different balances when such applications arrive.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e372	A slightly different track, because in my post I also noted that the government also in the Granavolden platform says very clearly, black on white, that Norway is going to be a precursor country for circular economy. Then I think it's a paradox that just before you come up with that strategy, you open up a new kind of nutrition to extract new minerals in a situation where we know that we already have a lot of minerals deposited or lying under our cities, basically, for example. As in Sweden, in cables that are no longer in use – that we do not know the potential for their reuse until we open up new industries. So my question is why does the government open up to this new industry before you know if you actually need it, before you know the potential of a circular use of the minerals that we've already absorbed, that is, circular use of the resources that we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e380	What I can say is that this government is concerned with the circular economy, and the recycling of metals is important. In the Granavolden platform, we have set the goal of Norway as a priority country in the development of a green circular economy that makes better use of resources, and we are going to develop a national strategy for the circular economy, as the Stortinget has also requested. But this is the responsibility of the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment, so that question has to be addressed to him.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e385	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e403	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, five lines be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e412	I would like to begin by thanking the Committee for its good cooperation in this matter. We have had a hearing to get recordings from employers' and employees' organisations, and we are all a few that this is a matter where there are quite different points of view. The employer page is busy with flexibility and commenting on most employers are serious and want to align with the regulations. On the other hand, employee organisations have some relatively serious concerns about the development and practice of complex legislation. They think that the legislation is being circumvented today to save money, and that this kind of circumvention gives competitive advantage to particularly unprofessional companies in the form of large-scale staffing agencies and foreign employees. I also think it is necessary to remind the Storting about a case from Dagsrevyen on Sunday, where this will be seen in addition. In this case, the Joint Undertaking states that the practice of the legislation is particularly critical in several cases. They see a trend where employees now get contracts with 5 pst. the position and prohibition of working for others. One cannot live by 5 pst. position. In the same case, NHO Service and Trade are in a comment, and they claim that this is not a very big problem. In addition to this, I would like to speak from SV's point of view. We have to take seriously that the reality description is as different as it is, while we have to understand that it will always be about a balance of power in the world of work, a balance of power that needs to be balanced in favour of the employees' side, as it is today. When the LO Federation reports major concerns about work crime, which is again confirmed by the National Labour Inspectorate, it is necessary to clarify and regulate more rigorously. The National Association of Construction also confirms this. I have to say, I think it's strange how the Right and the rest of the position can take everything that comes from the NHO Service and Commerce, too good fish, right above the head of the Construction Industry National Association. It's like the most liberal part of working life, the manning industry, those who don't create values for society, who push the labour force and foam the flute, are talking more true in the right ear than what the National Association of Building Industries is doing, those who really are close to the value creation of the industry that is most exposed to the crime of working life. There is clearly a need to introduce some stricter rules in the labour market in order for competition to be equivalent and for unprofessional operators not to be able to weaken the Norwegian labour market model. Now it is that the legislation is somewhat complicated, and it could have been simplified for the better. The proposal by the minority, including SV, in this case, is not particularly radical. It is about giving the trade unions the legal trust that the work environment law initially has as an intention, and clarifying it. Proposal No. 2 is about closing the one door that opens today to a competitive advantage for employers who use a high degree of Eastern European labour force and who are thus involved in undermining Norwegian skilled workers. This is simply about how the manning industry should be chewed or not chewed at the expense of employees. I and more people with me believe that this industry can no longer take responsibility and stick to legislation and intention behind new legislation, so it is time to close the door for the whole industry. I record the suggestions SV is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e429	The representative Solfrid Lerbreck has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e434	The Labour Party wants a safe and fair working life for everyone. Unfortunately, this is not the case today. Differences are increasing — in wages and salaries and between those who have good contracts and serious employers, and those who do not. We don't want a society, or a working life, where the individual is alone. It obviously does the bourgeois majority. Why else are they cutting the union deduction year after year? Why else do they pay homage to unorganized work? And why else do they remove collective redress? One reason for increasing inequalities is that it is easy for employers to use cheap foreign labour instead of employing people permanently under Norwegian pay and employment conditions. That's what we saw in the rental business, which the government also ignored until the bulk of the population got pushed forward a clear tightening. We also see that when it comes to the averaging of working time. It is initially a good system, which ensures effective work and free periods for employees, but the scheme is abused by too many to save on salary and travel expenses. As a result, the conditions for workers are worse, and this also means that Norwegian companies that want to operate seriously, who want to hire their workers permanently, and who want to operate with Norwegian pay and working conditions, are completely uncompetitive. That was the reason why, among other things, The BNL, a member of the NHO family, asked the Stortinget to deal with the rental business. This is also why many employers today hope that the Stortinget will follow the proposals of the Workers' Party and SV. We also see that there is a great deal of sin against the right of repatriation for workers when an employer applies for exemptions from the provisions on repatriation and has justified the need for free periods of time with the needs of the employee – and not the needs of the employer. This has avoided the obligations imposed by the legislation on employers to pay for a reasonable number of return journeys. Now those rules have changed, but we are proposing that it be tightened up. If we are to save Norwegian working life, we need far more effective action to ensure Norwegian pay and working conditions. We have to have a working life with all the permanent jobs. We need to strengthen the level of organisation and reintroduce collective redress. We must ensure that several provisions and exceptions to the general rules of the Working Environment Act are reserved only for establishments bound by a national collective bargaining agreement with a trade union with a right to set-aside and that there is a requirement for agreements to be made with trustees at individual workplaces. All of this we have the full opportunity to implement within the EEA Agreement. It is not the EEA Agreement that stands in the way of a serious, tidy and fair Norwegian working life. It's the government and the civil majority standing in the way of the job we want to do. And this disregard from the government, along with aggressive employers, who, instead of following the Norwegian Supreme Court ruling, go to ESA to get pressure through their wishes for the way in which work is to look, is now creating so much frustration and curse in the trade movement that it threatens the whole process of the EEA Agreement. It's dramatic. And I would like to claim that, in this way, the right-wing government and the unprofessional actors on the employer's side today are the biggest threat to the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e449	When I heard the previous post, I almost wondered if it was the same issue we are debating, too much of the article was not mentioned in the proposal or in the vote. For the proposal that has been made, the Norwegian working life will be divided into two: one for the organised and one for the unorganised. The possibility of averaging working time provides the necessary flexibility for both employers and employees. It will now be reserved only for parts of the labour force. By limiting the possibility of averaging only to employees and employers who have membership of the largest trade unions, those with the right to vote, you deprive everyone else of a good, and there are many. So what is the situation in the labour market? As the proposers themselves describe the situation: the average calculation is used in many industries to ensure efficient operation within a secure framework, and it works well in most parts of the world of work that use it. It also recognises the rapporteurs. So it's obviously something other than correcting something that doesn't work, which is the goal. It is legitimate to wish for measures to increase the proportion of those organised. However, as I see it, it is not legitimate to limit good tools for efficient operation only to some with membership of the right organisations. There are 1.4 million workers in Norway who are not organised. Many of them state that they choose not to be organised because they feel that their interests are not being cared for by organisations. There are also many who say that they feel that several trade unions have too close links with individual political parties. It also has to be taken over by the Working Party. In other words, organisations must make themselves attractive to employees so that they want to organise themselves, not by asking the Workers' Party to make proposals to divide working life into twos in order to hope that more people want to join. Proposing proposals to deprive companies and their employees of the opportunity to find good solutions together solely because they are not members of the appropriate professional organisation, or are not members at all, is nothing less than unwise. The Progress Party believes that such an approach creates an A and a B team in working life, where the A team must have specific opportunities and rights at the expense of the others. We don't want to be in on that either. Any employee shall have the possibility of agreeing flexible working time arrangements adapted to his or her own working day, family situation and, for example, commuter distance. It is not to be determined by whether or not you are a member of the LO. For our job is to provide good rights and a good, decent working life for everyone, regardless of whether you choose to be organized or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e462	We want a working life with safety and flexibility for employees, serious employers and a well-functioning and effective tripartite cooperation. Therefore, it is strange to hear the representative Grande repeatedly say that we want to reduce the union deduction and have done it year after year, when the truth is that it has been silent since 2013. The representative of Wiborg has explained why there may be other measures that can be good. But what is safe in Norwegian working life is that it must be easy to combine work and privacy. The Working Environment Act must ensure this flexibility while at the same time being a protection law for workers. The average working time calculation is currently used by many industries and ensures efficient operation within a secure framework. The average calculation is usually agreed between the employee and the employer, and the scheme works mainly well, as the proposer also describes the situation. The current system takes account of the need for a balance between the interests of workers and employers. If access to contract individually and locally and the right to seek the agreement of the Labour Inspectorate are removed, the possibilities of applying for the average calculation will be limited in the sectors in which public service regulations apply. This will include many establishments, and the Right considers this unnecessary. Many small and medium-sized enterprises do not have the agreements required by the proposal, but they are nevertheless serious, with good dialogue within the company. The Workers' Party's proposal provides for a change involving risks of unintended and adverse effects, for averaging is a good tool to ensure that the Labour Environment Act can be adapted to the different and changing needs of the work. The scheme makes it possible to take into account both the health, safety and well-being of workers and the need for rational operation of establishments. The average calculation of working time allows you to work longer and shorter days and to have free time between them. It can also be attractive for those who live further away from work. If you work in addition to the hours you need, you have to pay overtime, and you don't comply, you break the law. However, it is also important to clarify that overtime work should be used for specific and time-limited needs and, for welfare reasons, an attempt should be made to limit this. That shouldn't be the rule. Right-wing opinion is that it is unfortunate and unwise to design legislation restricting universal arrangements and reserving to those businesses that have membership of the major trade unions. We are engaged in an organised working life and believe that it is a competitive advantage for Norway with an equal and inclusive working life with a high level of organisation. Nevertheless, we do not believe that one should use the type of instrument promoted by the Workers' Party through the proposal as ‘measures to increase the level of organisation in the exposed industries’, as it says in the vote. Recent reports on the topic have shown that one of the main reasons for small recruitment is not to ask people if they want to join a trade union. It's the right place to start, while respecting a work environment law that can apply to the entire working life, providing flexibility, while protecting. It ensures a sustainable welfare society based on a safe and flexible working life. The general rule in Norwegian working life is regular employment, and nine out of ten are happy at work. It doesn't sound like that when you hear some of the posts from here today. The right agrees that we should take those who break the law. But we're not going to design a code based on those who break the law, because then we're choking Norwegian, profitable jobs, and that's not good for a sustainable welfare society. Therefore, the Right will not vote in favour of the proposals submitted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e477	We in the Center Party cannot get enough emphasis on our main line, namely that a well-organized working life is a prerequisite for a safe family life. In this context, we need to systematically facilitate trade unions active in the field of professional policy, in order to demonstrate through their efforts to their trade union counterparts that it is beneficial to be professionally organised. This position must be strengthened in the Norwegian trade union movement. However, we are in a difficult situation because the free movement of workers across borders undermines a well-organised working life, and more and more professional groups are being affected. That is why the Central Party is systematically working to move from free movement to what is increasingly known as the fair movement of labour in EU countries, i.e. the regulation of the movement of labour across borders. The present case concerns the average calculation of working time under the Working Environment Act. It has worked well in the opinion of the Centre Party, and it has contributed to a certain degree of flexibility in the working time of the employee, which is beneficial to both parties, and has helped us to maintain regular employment rather than the use of temporary workers, tenants or subcontractors. It has also given the employee longer periods of free time. BNL, the National Association of Construction, which is an important national association, is of the same opinion as what I am now expressing. However, we have and have had problems with the average calculation of manning enterprises. We have now been defined in the law, but we already see that in the case of permanent employment in temporary employment agencies, which is a part-time job, one is trying to undermine what the Stortinge decided. That is probably some of the background to the proposal that has been put forward. In this respect, the Centre Party was encouraged, and it received support from the Workers' Party and SV, a proposal for a new section 14-12 of the Working Environment Act, in which we were specifically to clarify the possibilities of average calculation and the rules that would apply in a separate section. [[3]] [[1]] We know that it is § 14-12 and § 14-12 that provide the legal basis for the use of crew companies, and we proposed a new section 14-12 that specifically covered the possibility for crew companies to calculate the average working time. [[2]] [[3]] Some of the reasons why this case has arisen are those in the subject-matter of the Tariff, where the heading against the votes of the LO has changed the provision on travel, diet and lodging in the regulations on public service, so that this is only covered by travel in Norway. The tragedy here is that the government and the majority of the population have accepted ESA's interpretation, which overrides the Supreme Court in Norway. It is a major challenge for the Workers' Party to support the EEA Agreement at this important point. What is important to be aware of is what the Joint Confederation has said to us in a note of 19 November, where one goes through the approval of applications by the Labour Inspectorate in the period from 1 August to 1 October 2018. After all, the Labour Inspectorate may have a more extensive average calculation than the parties can, whether they are country-wide contracts or not. The consequences of what the Joint Undertaking has presented are that, as is currently the case, local establishments with so-called voluntary commuters may have a running time of 54 hours per week without additional costs. This gives rise to distorted competition and causes the normal working day to be confused. I would like to stress: this is a development that needs to be stopped and in which the Centre Party agrees with the Joint Alliance. However, the problem is that the proposals submitted are not sufficiently clear. The proposals will apply to the entire Norwegian working life, and this work life is very varied. We have examples, as we have said in the setting, in some industries, for example. asphalt work, which needs a lot of work to be done in the summer, and they have an average calculation that meets that need. When the Central Party votes against proposal No. 1 and 2, it's because it's not prepared enough to solve a problem that's not well defined, and we want one to go into it more closely. What is the starting point is the working periods for non-resident workers, and it's a big problem how we're going to solve it legally.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e494	Red supports the proposals to tighten access to average working time. The careful use of this access can bring some benefits to both employers and employees. What we are now seeing is that employers in more and more sectors use this calculation as a means of legal social dumping, and we need to put an end to that. Extensive use of the plan provides long working days and weeks of work for some periods and long periods of rest, meaning that employees never receive overtime payments. This is used in many sectors. This is done entirely on the employer's premises. They collect non-resident labour to work maximum when it suits them best, and send them home again when there is no work for them anymore. This is the new form of social dumping, which is not even mentioned in the government’s strategy against labour market crime, because there is a type of social dumping which the government unfortunately seems to accept. It gives rise to a dangerous development that leads to a division between foreign and Norwegian workers. Red wants a level playing field for those living in this country and for those who commute between a place of work here and a place of residence in another country. Then, through the publication of collective agreements, we have gained better control of wages in Norway than if we had been without, but employers have realized that they can save a lot on being creative with working time arrangements. Today, it is too easy to obtain approval of working hours that differ from the normal working environment law. You can, for example: to draw up a collective agreement with a so-called house association, i.e. a body of employees who are not required to take responsibility for their colleagues’ health, environment and safety. These decisions must be lifted up to those serious trade unions which have a long experience in assessing the impact of long working weeks on employees, not least in the longer term. In our view, the most aberrant working time arrangements are only to be agreed with Norwegian trade unions with so-called adjustment rights. In practice, this means the larger trade unions, which are also a very bearer in the Norwegian model. Given everything we hear from the government and the right side of the Norwegian model, we would think they would support such a proposal. But they don't. Instead, they say that it must be up to the employer and the employee locally to find out the good arrangements. In this respect, citizens ignore the fundamentals of the labour market, namely that the employer has far more power than the employee. In particular, we see where the abuse of averaging is most common. We know of cases where the employer has pressured employees to start fictional clubs in order to sign agreements on average calculation. These acts of law must be brought to an end – not least because the Tariff has recently taken a decision that foreign workers will no longer be covered by the journey to and from Norway. Then we have to meet this by tightening up the Working Environment Act. Therefore, Red supports the second proposal proposed in the case, which is only about accepting average estimates if employees actually commute according to the new understanding of the subject matter. Today, many long weeks of work are granted without overtime, while the employer is now not paying for the return journeys to Poland. This must be stopped. This change is not least important because we now see that the EU and the EEA override our tariff agreements. They even override Norwegian Supreme Court judgments. In this way, it paves the way for more social dumping and more use of cheap foreign labour rather than employing people with Norwegian wage and working conditions, and for using local labour and apprentices locally. It is then necessary that Stortinget tightens up, and does not reject the necessary proposals for tightening up.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e507	The Working Environment Act provides for the average calculation of working time. This means that it is possible to work more in some periods and less in other periods, i.e. a different and more flexible distribution of working time than the general rules laid down in the law. Averaging agreements can today be concluded individually with each employee, locally with trustees in the enterprise or centrally between the employer and the trade union with the right to vote. In addition, upon application, the Labour Inspectorate may authorise such working time arrangements. Today's average calculation rules apply throughout the working life. They are not limited to specific industries. Proposals want the Labour Environment Act to be amended in order to allow local agreements on average calculation to be concluded only in establishments bound by a national collective bargaining agreement with a trade union with a right of suspension. It is proposed that the law should require that applications for the average calculation to be made to the Labour Inspectorate, which is justified on the grounds that employees work outside their home and need free periods, should be subject to the condition that the employer has sent the employees on assignment. The average working time calculation is an important tool to make the wheels walk around much of the Norwegian working life and an important asset for many workers who need a flexible working time to get everyday life with, for example: shared care for children to function. It is the average calculation that makes it possible to set up effective shift and rotation schemes, where the need for labour varies throughout the day or week, and it is the average calculation that is the basis for the flexibility schemes many take as a matter of course today, for example. the country's arrangements or the hours of work of the teachers. So working longer days makes it possible to have longer continuous periods of free time, which many employees also want. As I understand it, the proposal that is being put forward in the committee position means a strong tightening of the right to conclude local agreements. The proposal means that enterprises where employees are not organised in a trade union with the right to set-aside can no longer conclude local agreements adapted to the individual enterprise. They will have to apply to the Labour Inspectorate if they want a system that cannot be agreed with the individual. The proposal also goes beyond the original proposal in Document 8:33 S in the sense that this tightening should cover the entire working life and not just generalised industries. The proposal will thus lead to a strong red tape of a system which, as the proposers are also involved, works well today. The proposal concerning the Labour Inspectorate, as I read it, means that only establishments that send their employees on mission will be able to obtain applications for average calculation, where this is requested because employees want longer continuous periods of free time at their place of residence. On this basis, I fully agree with the majority of the Committee that it is not appropriate to amend the Working Environment Act, as the proposers wish.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e530	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e536	Following the change in the tariff, ESA has closed the case of travel, diet and lodging. Nor have any new initiatives been put forward by the government to follow up the case or the weaknesses of the collective bargaining decision. Does that mean that the Council of State and the Government are satisfied with the outcome of this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e543	Now, as the representative of Grande is also aware, it is up to the parties to agree on pay and working conditions between themselves. Tariff heading is an independent body which interprets the collective agreements concluded. They have made a decision, and I see no basis for reviewing the collective bargaining decision. I also think it would stir up significant reactions if government or enlargement were to go in and review the assessments contained in Tariffs. In my opinion, it seems that the subject of tariffs has found a balanced solution. This was one of several elements discussed between the parties. The parties themselves solved another challenge, which was about the so-called out-of-port companies. The subject of tariffs solved this with travel, diet and lodging in a way that balanced the different considerations fairly well. I see no reason to overdo those assessments.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e550	I interpret it as being satisfied with the outcome of the case. I did not ask if the decision should be reviewed in the subject matter of the Tariff, but I asked if the Council of State was satisfied with the result and the outcome of the case. The answer suggests that the Council of State is. And then we're done. The working party strongly disagrees. We believe that the decision was both unnecessary and very unfortunate, and the underlying proposal is an attempt to mitigate some of the effects that the decision could have. On the other hand, how to strengthen an organised and safe working life for all workers is the degree of organisation. Now it is over a year since the Stortinget asked the government to make proposals to strengthen the level of organisation. There has not been a single proposal from the government. On the contrary, the trade-union deduction has been weakened in every budget. Why has the government not followed up on this proposal when it is claimed that there is too much organisation?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e559	What if I'm happy? Well, I take note of the collective bargaining decision. We live in a country where the parties are delegated a lot of responsibility. It is up to the parties to resolve conflicts and discussions between themselves on issues relating to them and they have now taken a decision. It will always be that there may be disagreement between the parties on how to solve matters, but when they find solutions, I take note of it. What I had to think about it personally is not always as relevant. The representative of Grande was instead very concerned that one party runs to ESA. Well, the parties give and take. Sometimes it goes one way, and sometimes it goes the other way. This is a conflict that has been going on for very many years. The government is concerned that we should have an organized working life. There are different reasons why you choose to organize or not. On the part of the government, we have been committed to facilitating good tripartite cooperation and involving the parties and giving them the opportunity to influence matters that are important to them. We got a public service pension ashore last year, and a new agreement on inclusive working life put us in place at the end of the year. Of course, I'm also going to involve the parties in future issues that are important to them.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e566	I hear what the council says. There will be no government initiatives to follow up what came under the heading of Tariffs. There are also no initiatives to strengthen the level of organisation, and today our proposal to ensure that access to average working hours is reserved to establishments bound by a country-wide tariff agreement with a trade union with the right to set off. This means that we probably have to wait until 2021 before new initiatives can be taken to clean up some jobs in Norway in a rather unworthy way. We have seen increasing discrimination in the labour market and increasing inequalities, and the government is holding hands in this way. If the government has settled down on the situation in the labour market, or if you consider, for example: to reintroduce collective redress, at least as an opportunity, so that workers who feel that they are being mistreated under today's legislation can have the opportunity to try their case?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e573	No, the government is not going to reintroduce collective redress. It was not used, it was very controversial, and it is also fundamentally suspicious to have it. The total disregard of the representative of Grande is the organisation's own responsibility for recruiting members. The representative Wiborg presented some of the arguments that employees use not to register, and I think there are signals from employees that the organisations actually have to take seriously. The government facilitates good tripartite cooperation by involving the parties in matters that are important to them and providing them with significant impact on matters that are important to them. I mentioned public service pension last year and renegotiation of a new IA agreement last year. We have just presented a new strategy against labour-related crime with the parties, where they have had the opportunity to influence an important area affecting their daily lives. The reason why my recommendation is to vote against the proposal today is that it is very bad.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e584	The joint association was in Dagsrevyen on Sunday and reported on how unprofessional actors no snuggle around the new legislation of the Working Environment Act. I am aware that the Minister would not have this new legislation, but she is in any case responsible for complying with the current legislation. Does the Council of State think that the new practice of five percentage points of employment in the agency is within, and if not, what does it intend to do to counteract this practice?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e589	Let me first say that we share the commitment and commitment to unlocking unprofessional actors from the Norwegian labour market. We agree that regular employment should be the general rule and that we should ensure a serious and good working life for all. When the representative Lerbreck says that the Council of State did not want a new legislation, there is a truth to certain modifications. It was strictly a proposition submitted by this Council of States to tighten up the legislation to reduce, inter alia, the scope of the legislation. zero-hour contracts, and so the Stortinget wanted to go further than the government did in its proposition. We wanted to balance the different considerations between the employer and the employee. The size wanted to go further than that. How the legislation will be practised is a little too early to say anything about it now. I have read one notice about one agency that has 5 percentage points. But we are following developments closely. We have our own research work to look at how this develops, and then we'll see if there's a need for other changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e598	So the line change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e605	First a response to Margret Hagerup, who here claimed that the trade union deduction has not been weakened during today's government, but that it has remained silent. Yes, it has remained silent with exactly the same amount of kroner until 2019 as it was in 2013. The Minister of Finance has confirmed that. Right-wing people don't have such a bad budgetary understanding that you don't realize it's a deterioration when you haven't compensated for the price and salary growth. Are they deliberately trying to trick people? Or do they not stand by their own policies? You have to wonder. Then, just to sum up the debate, we have received confirmation from the Council of State that there is no support from today's government to the Norwegian trade union movement to tighten up the provisions relating to the average calculation of working time – we knew that from the setting, but it is a straightforward clarification – in the same way that the government did not provide any help to the work to tighten up access to rental. There the government had to be dragged after her hair step by step and pressed through a humiliating defeat, as Erna Solberg himself said was the greatest defeat she had in the previous period of downgrading, before changes came into place. We have also been confirmed that there will be no new initiative by the government to follow up the weaknesses resulting from the decision in the subject matter of tariffs. There is also a useful clarification for Norwegian trade union movements and Norwegian workers that no improvement in the conditions can be expected until a new majority, if any, will take place in 2021. And they've confirmed that it's not up to the government to reintroduce collective law, which is, of course, when everything else is tried, maybe the last straw a worker has to stand alone, namely that you have a union in your back that has raised a case on your behalf. One thing is disagreement in this room and between the parties about how strict the work environment law should be, and what exceptions from the main provisions there. It's okay to have a debate about. But what I think is much worse is that the government with it sends a clear signal that each employee has to expect to be alone. One weakens the degree of organisation by making it more expensive to be a member of a trade union. You don't want to reintroduce collective redress. And e.g. in the case of rent, which we have for treatment in Stortinget now, on supervision, the task of supervising the legislation has not been done. In other words, there should be no supervision, there should be no vigilance around the workplace, and if the employee feels that he is being unfairly treated, he will be able to bring that case up to the employer on his own. Everyone realizes that's the path to a working life we don't want, a working life with enormous differences.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e616	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e632	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, five lines be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is Mr Wiborg, who is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e643	There have been changes in the composition of the committee and the rapporteur has changed the committee. That is why, as chairman of the Committee, I shall take the floor first. The representative proposal from Red briefly seeks to introduce what the proposers claim to prevent so-called union break-ups. They ask the government ‘to set up a legislative committee to monitor the circumvention of legislation aimed at ensuring the position of workers’.’ They also request that the second paragraph of Section 16-1 of the Working Environment Act be amended to give employees the same rights in the event of bankruptcy as they currently have in the event of a transfer of business. As the majority proposes to reject these proposals, I would assume that the proposers themselves, but also the Labour Party, the Socialist Left and the Centre, will present their proposals. The struggle for a fair, tidy and decent working life must continue. Fortunately, today we have a good working life, whether it be in Fredrikstad, in Sarpsborg, in Oslo, in Tromsø. Nine out of ten thrive at work, but that doesn't mean we're going to rest, we're going to continue the fight against the unprofessional actors. User-friendly actors, who do not comply with laws, rules, who do not pay taxes, taxes, etc., are at great harm to the serious labour market, which is being uncompetitive, as there are no equal conditions of competition. Society misses many billions of lost tax revenue. In particular, individual employees are affected. There's something I think we're in agreement about in this room. Where the consensus in this room stops, is when the Red Party and – in part surprising – the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre are trying to create the impression that there is only seriousity where you are trade-unioned and have a collective agreement. That's wrong. Around half of the country’s population – as we also heard in the previous case – has not chosen to be organised. Most of these jobs are in serious companies and have tidy and decent working conditions. Our job as politicians in this room is to provide a framework for everyone, regardless of whether you are a trade union or not. The second part of the proposal, which deals with bankruptcy rights, I would also warn against. In Norway, fortunately, employees have good rights in bankruptcy. Precautionary measures include: wages and salaries through the remuneration guarantee scheme. But at the same time, there's a reason for a company to go bankrupt. Often it is complex, but it is often a matter of having operated the company in a way where expenditure over time has been greater than income. To demand that one such as If buying up a bankruptcy dwelling, the company must operate in the same way as before going bankrupt, testifying to a lack of understanding of the functioning of society and, in particular, of industry. That is why I am pleased that a clear majority in this Chamber rejects this proposal. I am very surprised that the Workers' Party and the Centre in particular are jumping on such a revolutionary proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e658	Here comes the voice of the revolution. I would first like to start by thanking the representative Bears Moxnes for promoting a relevant and good proposal on how we can balance the imbalance of power in working life. Unfortunately, the right-hand side is voting against all the proposals in this case. Even with clear examples from Norwegian and Norse Production at Sotra, the right-wing government’s top-right representatives are unable to vote for measures that would give a fairer working life. The Red proposal specifically points to the large space of action we have as legislative power within the EEA Agreement. Therefore, parts of the proposal are music to my ears, and the proposal to give employees rights in the event of a business transfer following a bankruptcy is also very relevant to the region I live in and represent. In the Western world, we are proud of our seafood industry, and like other parts of the country, we have been fighting for decades to ensure that the ocean's renewable food resources also create good jobs on land. Before the directive was implemented in 2013, there was widespread discrimination between permanent employees and hired workers, typically from Eastern Europe, in several enterprises and industries – Sotra’s Sekking City was one of them. A fixed employee had almost twice as high an hour's pay as the hired workers. We're not going to have it like this in Norwegian working life. But, as we so often see, new laws and regulations in the workplace follow new forms of organisation and great creativity from some employers to avoid stricter rules. Subsidiaries were established, and the discrimination – or social dumping, if you wish – persist. With the new subsidiary, Norse Production, the tariff agreement also disappeared. In the autumn of 2017, employees won their strike, where a collective agreement was demanded. In my opinion, it is incredible that even today we are still seeing new cases where the workers have to go to the dramatic step of a strike, to get a collective agreement at all. In 2018, Norse Production went bankrupt. The slaughter of the fish continued in another company, but none of the trade unions were allowed to continue. The company picked up only those who had not organized themselves in a trade union. The long-term battle for the collective agreement was lost – the management won. If this is not a striking example of the fact that disproportionate power relationships in the labour market still apply, I don't know. I will admit that I myself was surprised to see that this manoeuvre of silling out the trade-unioned was done with the exceptions of the Work Environment Act in hand. This derogation in the Labour Environment Act confirms and increases the differences in working life at the expense of organised workers, all of whom claim that they want more. We can and should simply do something about it here today. The proposal we are debating also addresses employers' responsibilities and governance. Today's work environment law says that the employer is the person who has hired a person to do work for himself and that the employer should ensure that the law is complied with. So we've seen, among other things. in franchised enterprises, that the employer does not have the opportunity to ensure compliance with the laws and regulations, since they are subject to a strict, common regulatory framework of the group in which they are franchised. They simply lose the opportunity to be a real employer for their employees. This challenges a number of provisions in today's work environment law, including: employees’ rights to job protection, information, participation in business transfer, participation in HMS work, etc. This is fully possible within today's work environment law, as the Norwegian judgment clearly shows. What the judgment also clearly shows is that the responsibility lies with us in this room. We have to take this seriously. As a legislative assembly, we have adopted a labour-environment law that sets out clear requirements for employers' responsibilities, with corresponding rights for employees, but from which the same law allows for the organisation to be abolished. The Labour Party is promoting two proposals here today. The first is that we ask the government to propose changes to the Working Environment Act that clarify employers' responsibilities. The other will guarantee workers better rights in the event of a transfer of activities after bankruptcy. With that, I have mentioned the two proposals that the Workers' Party has together with the Centre Party and SV in this matter. Finally, the Labour Party will vote against proposal No. Three, on a law selection. We have, in this and in previous cases, had concrete proposals that would change exactly what is proposed for a legislative committee to look at. The problem is that the right-hand side is against our proposals. We do not need a new legislative selection – we need a new decision to make.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e689	The representative Eigil Knutsen has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e694	The representative of the Bears Moxnes has made a proposal that allegedly intends to prevent trade unionism. Fortunately, it is not entirely the case that whether the trade unions in Norway are intact or go into a thousand knots depends on a representative proposal from the Red Party. On the contrary, this government has as a fundamental foundation that we want a well-organised working life, with real tripartite cooperation that ensures the necessary balance between safe working conditions and a competitive business. Just this last one, a competitive Norwegian business, seems to be of less interest to Red. This proposal goes into a number of issues we've been dealing with this majority period, which would make our working life more rigid and less adaptable. Some flexibility in meeting different forms of organisation in the labour market is essential for Norwegian companies to be able to assert themselves in a tough international competitive situation, often with scarce margins. In addition, it is vital that we be able to maintain just safe private jobs in Norway based on the principles of Norwegian working life, rather than regulate them out of the country. In this way, this proposal seems to be a little poorly hidden — or, perhaps not hidden at all — attempt to make it more difficult for companies to adapt company structures to the market in which they operate. In this sense, this proposal may mean more to cause business stress than to prevent trade unionism, which is the real intention of the proposal. Furthermore, there is a lack of consistency between the intention and consistency of several of the proposals. It is taken, for example: the right to clarify the employer’s responsibilities by ensuring that the person with management rights also has responsibilities for employers. However, it is not certain that this will make the employer’s responsibilities clear at all – rather on the contrary. It may just as well powder the division of responsibilities by making it more unclear who it is that is in practice the employer in the individual workplace. With regard to the proposal to review bankruptcy law, it is, first of all, less relevant in relation to the issue on which the proposal for a representative is based, as this is primarily about the relationship between the debtor and the debtor’s creditors. But if one were to do as Red suggests, it is also very difficult to see that this would in some way strengthen the employee's position, but it would make it more difficult to take over insolvent enterprises and in many cases make further operations impossible, and it would thus put all the jobs in the business at risk. This may not be possible in the interests of neither creditors nor employees. So there's little reason to say that this proposal would do something about the alleged union break-up, but there's more reason to believe that it would create a tougher competitive situation for Norwegian business, and in many cases would also risk more jobs than is currently done in some of the situations to which this proposal refers. To sum up, it does not seem necessary to set up a legislative committee to address unnecessary extensions to terms already well defined in today's legislation. We also think it is outright unwise to propose legislative changes that would make the survival of businesses less likely and in some cases impossible, and that would put all the jobs at risk in a business where a reduction might be achieved today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e711	After hearing the last article, I have a very strong need to appeal to the Christian People's Party to come into the Chamber on issues relating to employment policy. The Christian People's Party, before entering the government, has had respect and understanding for the Norwegian model in a completely different way from what we now see becoming clearer and clearer from representatives from the Right. What Toning Riise said now, does not at all argue for the Norwegian model of equivalence between the parties, sharing profits and long-term performance. In proposal No 1, on which the Senterpartiet is a member, you are asked to: «Amendment to the Working Environment Act, which clarifies that the person who effectively has a dominant influence over employment, as well as that resulting from the second paragraph of Section 1-8 of the Working Environment Act, also has rights and obligations as an employer under the Working Environment Act.» Why do we need such a change? Well, because the international competitive situation as a result of the agreements we have is becoming increasingly harsh and brutal. There is increasing short-termity and increasing pay differentials, and the Norwegian model is exposed to confusion every day. When the Central Party agrees with this proposal, there is a poor attempt to stand up to this development. The provisions of the Employment Environment Act state that an employer is the ‘employee for the performance of his duties’ and that the employer ‘must ensure compliance with the provisions laid down in and in compliance with this Act’. It was quite right in the past where there were reasonably tidy conditions. Now we see that in more and more areas there are uncertainties. We've discussed the franchise system in the past. We've discussed the group, where employees are employed in their own legal units, so that they are deprived of the rights that they would have as employees of the parent company. Last time we had the dispute with Norwegian in the Supreme Court, where the Supreme Court says that the legislator has a special responsibility to see whether today's law should not be followed up. This is why the Centre Party is involved, because we see changes in what has previously been a contractual relationship and a practice that has created a fair balance between the interests of the employer and the employee. It's a line that the Center Party is going to be on the future. It becomes a more important and important line forward when we see the brutality both in competition and in Norwegian working life. As regards proposal No: 2, which we also support, it says: ‘The government is asked to submit a proposal to repeal Section 16-1, second paragraph of the Working Environment Act, so that Chapter 16 of the Working Environment Act, which confers rights on employees in the event of transfer of business, also applies in the event of transfer from the residence of bankruptcy.’ I can see arguments against such a proposal, but we must look at the following: Why has the proposal come? Well, because we have employers who are willing to, after a bankruptcy, just hire those who are not organized again. If this is not to result in a reaction from the Storting, a practice is legitimized that is another time epoch worthy. We can't have it like that. So we have to make a change at that point. It is quite strong to learn that in Norway we still have employers who act that way. It is a direct breach of the trust ratio necessary to obtain productivity, proper operations and proper performance in the enterprises. It's as short-sighted as it's likely to be. Finally, I would just like to say that the Central Party also places emphasis on the proposal made in the budget of the Labour and Social Committee in 2018 that we should receive publicly available information on the bankruptcy quarantine. It is an area in which the government has to return to the Stortinget as soon as possible, because it will help us to have clean competition rules, and that those who are in bankruptcy will no longer be involved in Norwegian working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e738	We're facing a working life where it's going to be harder to organize. It's going to be more expensive, and the government has no plans to change this. At the same time, we see serious cases of purely trade union hugging. An example of the market being seen as leading the human being is the so-called Sekkingstad-saka in Hordaland. They added at the fish processing plant on Sotra outside Bergen strike with a collective agreement. After 34 days they returned to work, after winning. But just after this, the employer went bankrupt – despite profitable operations. All those added lost the job. Shortly afterwards, without any stop in production, a new company was created where the organized workers did not receive a job. This is purely trade union hugging and is contrary to what the Norwegian labour market is supposed to be. The government and we at Stortinget have a responsibility when it comes to facilitating a safe working life. Just lead the Christmas lost pilots in Norwegian an important matter in the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court concluded that the Norwegian law, which he is today, allows the pilots to be attached to a company other than Norwegian, for which they actually work. Norwegian as an employer can organize itself away from employer responsibility. When employers no longer have the responsibility for their additions, some of it completely fundamental to a safe working life disappears. This is very serious. Employees' right of consultation and influence is weaker with such a model, and important dishes when they are staffed simply become something different from what they are for other employees. This is very serious and will weaken the position of employees in several industries. SV is concerned about such developments in the labour market. So should the government. I record that government councils often talk very much about the organized working life. Then the fundamentals must be in place. It may not be possible to evade the responsibility for a safe working life for employees at the expense of fast profits. We now see examples that the ban on so-called zero-hour contracts makes people get 5 pst. contracts. This is simply unworthy. We need a law that holds targets, where they add and their dishes are definite and leading. Professional union hugging is serious, and there's reason to believe that it happens more often than we hear in this room. The situation of power in the labour market must be balanced better than it is today. We're responsible for the rules in here. We don't need to sleep in the hour here, we need to make sure that we have the rights and opportunities of workers. With this in mind, I would like to make the proposal to SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e751	The representative of Solfrid Leirbreck has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e756	The right to join a trade union is a fundamental human right. Our proposal is about preventing people from being deprived of that human right, which is happening increasingly and increasingly in Norwegian working life. We saw it at the fish processing plant Norse Production at Sotra in Hordaland. The management who objected to a collective agreement. After four weeks of work and strike, they agreed to a collective agreement. Workers, many of them Poles, got much better working conditions and were treated in the same way as Norwegian workmates after the collective bargaining agreement was fulfilled. But then the owners directed a bankruptcy in the company. A new company arose three days later in the same premises, with the same supplier of raw materials and the same customer. The employees only those of the workers who had not been in a trade union. They handpicked those who had not fought for a collective agreement, and discriminated against the most serious of those who lost their rights and for a fundamental human right. According to the representative of the Right, this is alleged to be trade unionism. Note your word «indicated». You almost have to be a member of the Right Party in order not to realize that this is union sknusing. I would like to ask the Right to listen a little more to the workers and a little less to their rich sponsors who pay the Right election campaign and are employers. Then the Right will realize that what's happening in work now is gross, and that it deprives people of the opportunity to fight for better pay and to get their share of the value creation, which is done by the creation of the values of the workers, not the owners. We are now seeing large growth in companies that arrange operations so that the owners do not take responsibility for the employer. It undermines the whole intention of the 1977 Working Environment Act. The right-hand side says that this was up for assessment in 2005, so we don't have to re-examine the issue. The right parties then ignore what has happened in these 15 years: for the first enlargement of the EU to the east, which has given massive labour imports in a number of industries, where employers use the opportunity to pick up labour to work on worse terms than those with Norwegian pay and working conditions, and use rents, franchises and other creative business models. This alone makes it important and necessary to tighten up and tighten up the legislation. Secondly, the view of the Right and Advance Party in this matter involves support for unprofessional employers. That is the reality. Our proposal is to ensure equal treatment between the owners of Norwegian employment and not to promote owners as in Sekkingstad, who use bankruptcy to get rid of a trade union, while employers who respect the employees and accept the foundation of the Norwegian model, namely to have collective agreements, are given a competitive disadvantage when this is achieved. It is quite surprising and interesting that the Right Party and the Advance Party with the Left Party and the Christian People's Party in this way promote the unprofessional employers and give a competitive disadvantage to the serious employers. It is alarming that they will not turn down the obvious circumvention of the Working Environment Act. It is more important for the government to take account of the creditors in the event of bankruptcy than to ensure that employees who are part of a trade union are allowed to continue to participate and that the collective bargaining agreement is continued. There's a pattern that's clear here; government parties say it's important to defend the Norwegian model, but they don't do anything in practical policy. They do not lift one finger to strengthen the level of organisation and ensure that workers join trade unions and can fight for a clean working life. We will fight further, if we vote today, to ensure that this development does not continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e772	The Government wants to improve pay and working conditions and to facilitate an organised working life. This is important, and that is something we have constant attention to. I believe that the legislation we have today is, in principle, flexible and functional, in the sense that it ensures protection for those who need it, and captures circumventions. At the same time, we must have our eyes open to change in the labour market. Changes in technology, demography and globalisation create opportunities, but can also challenge the current framework. Choice of the form of organisation and employment may affect who has the rights, opportunities and obligations. There is also every reason to be aware of this. We do not want a working life with actors that become a little too creative in order to get away from employers' responsibilities. However, my impression is that most businesses are serious and take their responsibilities seriously, including those who need to streamline and reorganize themselves. And it's perfectly legitimate for business to use the space for action in the law to create the greatest possible growth. At the same time, the rules shall be followed and the rights of employees shall not be undermined. The research shows that developments in the use of atypical employment in Norway are mainly characterised by stability. At the same time, I know that, among other things, The Norwegian case has made a commitment. Such issues also provide a good opportunity to reflect on whether current mechanisms are forward-looking and adapted to developments in the labour market. As in all cases, there are several considerations to consider, and I have been in contact with both the employee and employer sides on this matter in concrete terms. In general, there is good reason to be aware of trends in the labour market. This applies both to the organisation of work and activities, to the relationship between the provider of work and the person carrying out work, and to the consequences of different organisation. In my opinion, it makes sense to see these questions in context, including: in the light of the research and not least in consultation with the parties themselves. Later today, I will also meet the social partners in the Employment and Pension Policy Council. There we will, among other things: discuss related issues. With regard to the proposal for a review of bankruptcy law, I cannot see that there is a relevant measure related to this issue in the draft representative. Bankruptcy legislation regulates, as several have already pointed out in the debate, primarily the relationship between the debtor and the creditors. The representative proposal also deals with the transfer of business in the event of bankruptcy. The exemption in the law is related to ensuring the further functioning of insolvent undertakings. The consideration of employees has been an important reason why these rules do not apply in bankruptcy, because further operations will increase the chances of maintaining jobs. So I don't think it's appropriate to make changes to the rules on business transfer at this point. In general, however, it is important to monitor developments in how enterprises organise and adapt to different legislation. Finally, I must say that I am responding to the claim made by this pulpit that the positioning parties do not respect the Norwegian model. There is also the impression that we have a disintegrating working life. That's not right. We have a safe and good working life with a high level of well-being, where most employers are serious. As I also explained in the previous case, together with the parties, we have jointly resolved important issues for the parties: a new public service pension, which we are going to present to the Stortinget, a new agreement on inclusive working life and a new strategy against working life crime. We've solved this together. There are issues that are important to the parties and where the parties are greatly influenced by the matters affecting them. Then it's the government's job to try to balance the different considerations between the parties. Later today, as I said, I am going to discuss other important issues, including forms of association, with the organisations. It's also important to remember that yes, we need to keep our eyes open so that there may be adjustments that are unfortunate. Yes, we need to keep our eyes open so that there may be a need for change. But I'm reacting to claims that almost give the impression that it's only the opposition that's concerned with a serious working life. That's not right. And that almost all employers are unprofessional is also not right. To the issue of labour migration: it has now fallen considerably; it has almost stopped compared to what it has been like in the past. So working life is no longer as immigration driven as the representative of Moxnes claims.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e795	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e800	In December, the Council of State was also concerned with organised working life, when she from the Norwegian Senate said that there was no point in changing an organisation that was flexible, but that at the same time it could be possible to organise itself in a way that could have unfortunate aspects, and that it had to be important to find the balance between a flexible work environment law and to be able to break out what is undesirable. But this was something she had to come back to later, she said. My question is whether the Council of State has moved forward in the matter, and if so, when the Storting can expect a matter from the Council of State that concerns this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e805	It is important that we balance different considerations. There are often contradictions of interest between the parties to be adequately addressed. Before Christmas I had a meeting with Parat in connection with the Norwegian case. After Christmas, I met with NHO Aviation and Norwegian on the Norwegian case. Today, I will address the question of relationships with the social partners in the Employment and Pension Policy Council to see if it is desirable and possible to go together and do a job there or not. Indeed, macro-level research shows good stability over time. There's very little change in the form of connections at the macro level. The question is whether there are changes and adjustments more at industry or activity level that we may need to go into more thoroughly, but I will deal with the parties later today. If it is necessary to get to Stortinget, of course I will. Essentially, I think we basically have a functional and good code, but I'm going to be open to see if there is a need for change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e810	I thank the Council of State for the answer. We also need to weigh different considerations when looking at the business transfer legislation, and whether to repeal Section 16-1 of the Working Environment Act, second paragraph, in order to ensure that employees are granted rights in the event of transfer of business even after bankruptcy. As several speakers from the Red-Green side have referred to from the pulpit, we are wondering a little bit about what to do with a case like this on Sotra where a company goes bankrupt and a couple of days later a new company opens up in the same premises with the same commodities and picks employees who do not require a collective agreement and are not organized. Is there a functional code that allows for the type of organisation and to pick employees who do not require collective bargaining?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e815	One of the challenges is to create a regulatory framework that is capable of unlocking items that are considered undesirable, without affecting a whole business life regardless of whether or not it is a challenge throughout the business world. The previous case is a good example of that. There may be unfortunate consequences in some businesses and in some industries in terms of averaging, but are we going to cut the whole business over one comb and make it difficult for everyone whether it's a problem or not, and whether or not the employees want to have it like this? It's a little bit equivalent to this, too. I do not know the details of the case referred to here, but one of the starting points for exceptions in these kinds of cases is the need for the company to survive, the consideration of employees’ ability to continue working – that is, to save a company. The alternative may be that the entire company goes bankrupt and everyone loses the job. That is why there is an exception today. It may not be optimal, but it may not be as easy to get an optimal code for all cases, and this will take care of it in a good enough way, as far as I can see.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e820	What is the view of the Center Party is that the Norwegian model is confused. It has not yet come to the point that it is in resolution. It's true, as the Council of State says, that most people are serious, but we have to act before the majority is unprofessional, one has to act to avoid a slippage. The Council of State says that all employers are not unprofessional. No, not all employers are unprofessional. Most of them are serious, but it now helps to create unfair competition. In the absence of a global body that can organise working life, it is the Biggest that must ensure a decent and well-organised working life. My question is: why can't the Council of State be on proposal No. 1, which is so careful that only one asks for the employment environment law to clarify the concept of an employer? It is a cautious proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e829	I disagree with the representative Lundtägen that the Norwegian model is confused, but I agree with him that it is important that we take care to maintain it. It is important to have a high level of organisation, and it is important that there is still good tripartite cooperation. But I don't agree that it's confusing. We see that the degree of organisation is stable on the employee side, and it has been increasing on the employer side. I agree that it should be high both on the employer’s side and on the employee’s side, so that the organisations are representative of their members. It's important, and it's also been important for the Norwegian community. It is clear today who is the employer. There is a definition of the concept of employers in the law today. We also see that as far as the forms of association are concerned, as I said, when you look at the research at the macro level, it has been almost alarmingly stable over very many years. But I want to discuss the issue with the parties today, among others. in the light of the Norwegian judgment. There is also another trial now, in the so-called Aleris case, which neither of us knows the outcome, but I will discuss it later today with the parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e838	We have a huge problem because the understanding of reality between opposition and position is so different in what is happening in Norwegian working life. The centre party is quite clear that the Norwegian working life model is confusing. The council says it's not happening -- it's in good shape, it's healthy, it's vital, it's developing positively. This is an important discussion that we have to take around in the whole country, and all the time must put a finger in the earth and see what is actually the reality out there. My next question is related to our second proposal, which concerns employees' rights in the event of bankruptcy. I understand that the Council of State does not want any change in the law. Then my question is very simple, linked to what has happened, by the fact that one has picked people who are unorganized: does the Council of State support such an act of bankruptcy, that the new employer picks out those who are unorganized by new employment?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e845	I do not know the specific matter in addition to what I have seen so far in the newspapers, and I do not know the background to what it has become like. But I can agree that as described, it obviously sounds a little special. But I do not know the matter, and there may be other reasons and considerations than what emerges. Yes, there is obviously a very different perception of the reality of Norwegian working life between position and opposition. But it is a reality that nine out of ten thrive on work, that there is a high level of trust between the employer and the employee side, that we have a Norwegian working life that is becoming more and more health-promoting, and that accident statistics are falling. That doesn't mean everything's perfect. But saying that the model of working life is confusing, that employers are exploiting their employees is not what is common. I agree that it is important that we unwind what is unprofessional, but in general, we have a good and decent working life. We have good tripartite cooperation. The government and the parties cooperate in, I think, 25 different arenas, and the parties get a great deal of influence on matters that are important to them. This government is to continue and further develop.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e854	We point out serious problems in construction, trade in goods and the fishing industry with trade unionism and make proposals for action. The government answers that in general it is good and rejects our proposals. It's kind of like going to the doctor, and the doctor says, "Yes, I see you have a cold fire in your foot, but otherwise you're fine and healthy, so go home and lie down on the bed and relax a little. We want measures that get done where there are really big problems, which we now saw with Norse Production, i.e. a purely trade union hug: to use bankruptcy as a method to get rid of employees who have joined a trade union. I wonder what the Government's solution to this new maneuver that employers are looking for, i.e. to bankrupt the company, arise two days later, and take only those who worked there, who were not part of a trade union. Then you get rid of the tariff agreement and get rid of the union club and move on with the same owners, in the same premises, with the same business. What will the Council of State do with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e864	To use the Moxnes cold fire anacdo: it's not like if you have a cold fire in your foot, you have to amputate both legs. That's where the opposition is in these cases, that one finds a problem perhaps in individual businesses or individual industries, then one has to try to make changes there, and then one has to put on a whole working life these changes, even where there are no problems. The previous averaging case is a good example of that. Businesses are hit on issues that may be very few. The suggestions here are a little bit the same. Either they don't meet what they want to meet, or they're not relevant to the issue. After all, I cannot recommend the Stortinget to adopt proposals that are not relevant to the issue, or that may even work against what is intended, namely to ensure more employees. When it comes to the specific matter that Moxnes refers to, I don't know the details of it, so I'm going to be careful to mean too much there. But I agree that we should not avoid commitments by cancelling those who are organized. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e873	Time's up. The queue change has now been completed. The called alternate of the Uppland County, Ingerd Thon Hagaseth, takes no seat. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e887	It has been mentioned several times that employer involvement was assessed in the pre-work of the Working Environment Act in 2004. It's been 15 years, and the world of work has changed a lot since then. It is absolutely necessary to continuously change the law, so that it is adapted to the new world of work and gives people the same protection as before. It is much easier to modernise legislation than to return all changes in working life to the way it was in the past, so that the law is correct. People should be winners in the new world of work, not losers. Technology, globalisation and new attitudes allow for many great progress, but also facilitates pulverisation and creative reorganisations, including: through the responsibility of employers. In the new directive on working conditions for which the EU decided last week, there has always been a definition of the concept of ‘payer’ in the process. Whether he is in the final analysis, I am uncertain, but the definition came from the European Commission and has been approved by the European Parliament. He sounds like this: An employer is one or more natural or legal persons who are directly or indirectly a party to an assignment relationship with a worker. This wording is closer to today's proposal than the current anti-variate wording of the Working Environment Act. The fact that the person signing an addition contract is an employer is not an unpleasant thing, but so are all the others, those who actually decide, those who have a real impact on employment, or who are an indirect party to the accession relationship, as the EU says. An employer has an obligation to provide information in accordance with law and agreement, but how should an employer be able to provide information if he himself does not know what to inform about? All that's in another company. How is it to be able to contribute to the design of the work situation if the employer has no mandate to make changes because the mandate is in another company? Under Norwegian rules, cancellations and lay-offs shall take place with a background on the company's long-termity if there is no valid reason to derogate. How can this be practised when the enterprise is split up into smaller units and the enterprise is added to the smaller units? The length of time they have to measure against others is in another company. Or when it comes to franchise models, where franchisors provide training programs and work regulations and warnings, everything between heaven and earth – how should a person be affected? I understand that the Right needs to show that they benefit from the batch support they get, and I know that employers don't like to be deprived of these possibilities. The site of sacking, which was mentioned by several people here in the debate, is one of the people who appreciate this by supporting the party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e900	The representative Sande opened up with something I very much agreed with, that ordinary people should be winners in the new world of work, and he ended up with something that I'm going to come back to. The debates in this committee are perhaps some of the most polarized I see in the Storting, and let me make it quite clear: I believe that this whole room, including the government parties, wants tidy and decent conditions in Norwegian working life. I see absolutely no reason to be interested in anything else. So I know that the opposition will then believe that our policy leads to an unyielding and brutalised working life, but after six years of a blue-blue government, nine out of ten employees respond that they thrive and have the right to codetermination. So the descriptions of reality are quite different – from the completely brutalized on the one hand, with trade unionism and totally unacceptable labour standards, to the State Institute for Safety and Health at Work stating that Norway is at the forefront, among other things. working environment standards. But is it possible that both of these descriptions might be correct? I think that, I think both descriptions might be right. Despite the fact that we have the world's best regulated labour market where the vast majority are satisfied, and we have serious employers who take social responsibility and workers who thrive on work, there are exceptions, and there are offences. Then there is not necessarily new legislation that we need, at least not new legislation that does not. And that's why the Right vote against today, as the representative Tonning Riise explained, and as the Council of State also said. So Red's representative, and also a little bit of the representative Sande, plays out that the Right is a party that now, by avoiding this kind of legislation, makes our donors happy. I really expect both representatives, but perhaps the most representative from Red, who has also signed up for me, to submit a police report as soon as possible, because then gross accusations of corruption from the pulpit should also be followed up from word to action. Is it really so that the Right and Right representatives follow the wishes of their donors to create an indecent, indecent and brutalised working life to get 1 million. Get into the account? And is it that Norwegian business leaders serve to have indecent and brutal relationships? Or most Norwegian business leaders are concerned with tidy and decent conditions in Norwegian business because, among other things, they are. do not wish to compete against social dumping and indecent employment of enterprises other than themselves? The representative from Red now gets the floor, and I expect a police report, and I expect it quite soon.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e913	There is nothing illegal in that Right on the Stortinget and in the Government defend the interests of those groups of society that are rich, sponsoring the Right election struggle, who want a Right Policy here in the country. On the contrary, it makes sense. We think it is quite right that we have a party in Norway that is so clearly on the owner's side and so clearly take a position against the employees, as the Right does on a case-by-case basis on Stortinget, and as we see in the Chamber here today. Bankruptcy brokers who use bankruptcy to get rid of employees with a collective agreement, then to get a new company in the same premises two to three days later, and where they only take those who were not part of the union to work separately, even if it is not to be settled by the Right of the Stortinget. I think Sekkingstad, who sponsored Højre's election campaign with NOK 100 000 in 2017, is well pleased that Right on the Stortinget does not raise a finger that this practice, which is nothing but direct union hugging, gets the blessing of Right-wing representatives in the committee and even by a government council that thinks it is a little bad, but that will not do anything to correct this practice. So no, there's no police report from Red's side. We don't have to report right to pursue right-wing policy. That would be very strange. It is quite natural that right-wing acts as they do in the main hall today. What is strange, however, is that the Right, like a self-declared serious party, does not see this line undermining the serious employers who want to have collective agreements with employees, want to have neat relationships, and do not want to speculate in social dumping as a strategy. What is happening now, without any intervention by the Stortinget, as we suggest, is a clear message to employers that they can use this Sekking City/Norse Production manoeuvre if they want to get rid of tariff agreements, get rid of tidy conditions, get rid of non-resident and Norwegian workers, as they had. It is strange that the Right does not understand what is best for the serious business community, which also sponsors the Right election campaign, but that on the contrary they pursue a policy in the Stortinget that facilitates that the unprofessional actors can continue to move forward as they have done on Sotra, without any action of any kind from the Right Party. It's weird, I think.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e922	The representative Heidi Nordby Lunde had an interesting observation, and it has not been said here in the Chamber, as far as I know, namely that we now have the most polarized debate in the Great Council on employment issues. I agree. I agree that it will be very polarized gradually. That's not so nice. When you travel in EU countries, you can see that there is even more polarized. The system in place, with the free movement of labour, also opens up in Norway with its consequences. So I agree that here in the matter of working life lies the biggest and most important political issue of security, security of income for people most, so that with the high Norwegian cost level you can pay your expenses. So the council repeatedly says that most of them are serious. Yes, the Center Party fully agrees that most people are serious. It was just supposed to be missing! If not most of them were serious, then I don't know what kind of insecurity we had. But what's happening is that it's going wrong. The Norwegian model is fading, there is growing uncertainty for more and more groups. There will be more uncertainty about labour income, which is the first prerequisite for equality between people. And this confusion also leads to more and more unfair competition between employers. Serious, long-term employers with their own permanent employees are losing more and more competition with those who are fishing. As a result, it weakens the productivity development of the Norwegian society, which is the whole prerequisite for the welfare society we have, because it provides a basis for overpayment of labour. We from the opposition are asking for clarification of the person who really has a controlling influence over employment. There is, of course, one of the best things in the Norwegian tradition, namely to address what are current challenges to further develop the Norwegian model so that what is positively linked to trust, related to high labour productivity, related to recruitment and education, is highly prominent. So it's very strong for us in the Center Party to find out that the government is accepting such proposals, which are one of the best for the Norwegian working life tradition.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e931	I don't think anyone should feel offended because I say that Right receives election support from rich children. I might as well say that the Labour Party gets from the trade movement, so these things cancel out. I think both are quite fine in Norwegian democracy. I want to say a little about the Nordic model that you're talking about, and the tripartite collaboration. The Nordic trade union movement is moderate, has a duty to peace and is cooperative, unlike the trade movement in the United States, Italy, the United Kingdom, France, where there is a trade union movement, which is not set up in the same way. Many have summarized that the Nordic model, the Nordic trade union movement, is a force for the Nordic region, and that is something we have in all Nordic countries. The reason why we have this is not that one is more good at recruiting in some countries than in others, but that society is facilitating it. In Sweden, Denmark, Finland and Iceland, they have an organisational percentage of up to 80 – in Norway we are 50 pst. And why are they so much higher than us in these countries? Well, they practice something called the Ghent model. This means that the trade union movement gets funds from the public to pay out unemployment benefits and create a-boxes tied up to the trade union movement. It helps to give a strong link to the trade movement. In Norway, we don't have that model, but we've done something else, and it's stimulating organization by giving a tax deduction. When the right side refuses to agree to develop it further, one is also involved in preventing the development of the Norwegian part of the Nordic model – we do not come further. One might say that the trade union movement should recruit better – it works with – but one cannot get into that percentage only with pure recruitment. We see that in the other Nordic countries – one must have some kind of goodwill in society to achieve this. Then the right-hand side accepts to LO, which organizes under 50 pst. by Norwegian trade unions, cooperate with the Labour Party because of the 60-70 pst. of the members voting on that party. Then one has the other well half, which is now the largest part. They're outside of LO, who don't have this. We don't say they won't get the corresponding stimulus, this is a whole thing. The employer page generally supports the Right side, and the employee page generally supports the left side. We must live with that, and that is what is the strength of the Nordic model.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e942	The debate here – and the previous one – clearly shows that there is a difference between who the political parties listen to and who you feel loyalty to. When we deal with these issues from a single left-hand side of the policy, it's because we've listened to the employees, and because we've been around the workplace and seen what's going on. That the right side chooses to look at statistics and employment from above and away from people, and refreshes the working life and says that there are no problems, gets to be their case. But we see what's going on, what's going on, and we want to contribute to getting neat, real relationships where we see today that they're being threatened. Then, of course, it's not that if these proposals are adopted, it'll destroy the working life or the business, as it's claimed from the Right. There are many examples of businesses in the retail trade operating in franchises that take on employers’ responsibility and do not impose the burden on franchisees as much as some do. There are also many who are serious about proper pay and working conditions and regular employment, and who make good money in the daily food industry. So it's not that if this proposal is adopted, then all of a sudden the opportunity for good competition in the business world is shattered. What we see in aviation is the same thing. There are many people who make good money to have proper pay and working conditions, but we know that if we don't stop what is about to happen through Norwegian being supported by the Supreme Court, the serious actors will also follow and run business the same way. We're looking at areas of work that we're looking at in a direction that we don't want. I feel that both in this debate and in what we have experienced in the debate on pensions from the first crown, we see a new arrogance from the bourgeois majority. You don't listen to the workers, you don't listen to those who wear the shoes, and you don't listen to those who are hit by the intrusions of today's government, which we're also going to debate in the next case. Left and Christian People's Party have not even seen in the Chamber today. We did not do that in the debate on pension from the first penny. The left is in itself fine that we do not have in the debate – they are in many areas worse than the Progress Party – but the Christian People's Party, which in the last period was involved in a significant tightening of access to rentals and for proper, tidy working conditions, is now failing in its role as the protection of family life, which protects the individual. That's what I think is sad, and it clearly shows that the field of work becomes a low priority for the Christian People's Party and the Left, and it's left to the right. This will lead to a lot of blows in this area in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e953	It has become a trend in these debates in the Labour and Social Committee that the opposition finds single examples of activities that use the legislative space today in a way that we all think might not be ideal, and then they are used to promote general changes in the laws that affect the whole of business. So when we say that we don't support the general changes, you accuse the position of believing that all of the single examples were completely within that. No, it's not like that, but it's not good politics. In this case, in order to give Sekkingstad and Norse Production a taste of the fingers, the proposal is made that would endanger all jobs in all bankruptcy transfers, only to draw attention to a single enterprise that is thought to have done something wrong. There is a good reason why we have an exception to the rule on the continuation of pay and working conditions and protection against dismissal in the event of the transfer of bankruptcy accommodation, and that is justified by the interests of employees, because further operations increase the risk of preserving jobs. This form of incentive policy is not suitable for the conduct of responsible governance policies. When we in the position vote against the proposals in this case today, it is not because we believe that all the single examples that have come up – it is really just two – are quite the way it should be. No, it's because voting for the proposals here today would be a greater violation of workers' interests across the country than the single examples that the opposition has brought forward in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e960	The representative Bears Moxnes has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e965	To the previous speaker: there is no breach of law — as we do — based on the fact that entire industries are now exposed to circumvention, exception, renting, franchise. The entire service industry has a dramatically low degree of union organisation. We see the same problems in construction, in hotels and restaurants – in industry by industry, they win unprofessionally at the expense of the serious. The consequence of our proposal is that you have to keep moving, but without being able to get rid of the organized workers. It is based on a principle that enterprises that are unable to offer decent conditions do not have the right to life either. That's how we get a productive business in Norway: that we open up those who can't bear the tariff agreement, and get those who can.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e973	In contrast to the Red on the Stortinget, Right-wing legislation that takes place – not as Red does here, obviously also with the support of both the Workers' Party and the SV, with laws that do not meet and that could endanger more jobs. Who, then, is the friend of the employees, and who is unfamiliar? Yeah, it's open for discussion. Norwegian working life seems to be under attack from two sides, on the one hand from unprofessional employers, who undermine Norwegian working life, on which we all want to fend. On the other hand, it is under attack from the left, which introduces laws and regulations that can ultimately jeopardize Norwegian jobs. It doesn't support the Right. The representative Arild Grande consistently puts words in the mouth of other representatives, even though I stood here and pointed to both reality descriptions – both that the main features of Norwegian working life are good, and that there may be inappropriate working conditions in an otherwise well-regulated working life. However, the answer to this is not necessarily restrictive and prohibitions that harm Norwegian jobs — and eventually Norwegian workers. After this government joined, it has been established, among other things. seven labour-resistance centres, laws and regulations have been activated, the penal framework has been increased where occupational crime has been seen, and a number of measures have been put in place together with the social partners. Then I also hear that the representative Grande says that we should not rely on statistics, the overall picture that we have a tidy and decent Norwegian working life – because we are not participating or outside meeting neither employees nor employers. So let's do that. We have 45 representatives who are on a weekly basis and meet – and have dialogue with – both employees and employers. But neither can we rely on single examples when we are going to create new legislation that will meet precisely the people we meet every week and where we hear about their employment. Right-wing support for legislation that will regulate or re-regulate Norwegian working life, a law that both supports the flexibility needed by business to ensure Norwegian jobs and also supports the needs of workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e986	We have heard many explanations from the representatives of the right on why they cannot vote in favour of any of the proposals we are promoting and that they have better thoughts about how we should strengthen the seriousness of working life. Yeah, give it to me! We have invited the government to discuss with Stortinget how we can strengthen efforts to combat labour-life crime – no interest. We have asked the government to follow up proposals on how we can make it easier for serious businesses to win out in competition against unprofessional – no action. We have also asked, through majority decisions in the United Kingdom over a year ago, that more action be taken to strengthen the level of organisation. But there's nothing coming, rather the true opposite. We hear many fine words from the government that you want a decent, clean work life. That's good. But from words to practice, it is clearly a very long way for this government and for today's majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e993	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e1011	The starting point for this interpellation is actually a little bit back in time, but it's unfortunately just as topical. Two years ago – on 19 January 2017 – I asked a written question to the Council of State based on messages posted on the Facebook group “Action against AAP proposals”. The Facebook group has over 2,300 members. Many of them are recipients or former recipients of redundancy benefits. In the second half of 2016 there were messages from this Facebook group that more and more people had been informed by their supervisors in Nav that the rules on work clearance had been tightened up, so that users could not expect to be extended according to the rules on exemption from the four-year limit for the AAP, even if they had not been completed either for work or for social security. On 17 November 2016, Stortinget reported. St. 33 for 2015–2016, NAV for a new period – for work and activity approved by the Council of State on 20 May 2016. In the message, the government announced that it was reviewing what the so-called ‘central aspects of income insurance schemes, with the emphasis on redundancy payments, with a view to stimulating work rather than social security to a greater extent.’ The experience we have with how this right-wing government practices the line of work is that stimulating work is only a fine rewriting of the realities, which means that it should be cut into social benefits. The logic seems to be that those who have a lot are motivated by getting more, while those who have little are motivated by getting less. We have a lot of examples of this, but I'm going to stick to the redundancy money right now. It was further stated in the Nav message that the consultation note on restrictions on the right to work clearance should be sent out before the summer of 2016. This happened on 8 July 2016, with a deadline of 1 November of the same year. A case was also notified to Stortinget in the 2016-2017 session, on the evaluation and need for adjustments to the work-clearance system. When I asked my written question on 19 January 2017, the government had not yet proposed changes to the law for Stortinget. By law data.no, it did not seem that there had been any regulatory changes at that time that would indicate that it would be tightened up. I therefore asked the Council of State what kind of intrusions into the rules on redundancy payments had been notified to users by their supervisors, and with what basis. The reason for the question was that many felt insecure and troubled, because social assistance for some could then be the only alternative. Such unrest is not hard to understand. The Government’s response was initially denouncing — there had not been any tightening of the rules on redundancy payments, either at legal or regulatory level, during 2016. There had also been no change in the circular of the labour and welfare movement. Nor was there any internal information sent out in Nav that the practice of the regulation should be intensified, and that was strange. It was hard to believe that the users had only invented this by themselves. However, the Council's response warned that tightening was underway, as stated in the Nav message. In July 2016, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs had sent proposals for changes to the rules on redundancy payments. The changes were intended to give a so-called higher threshold to enter the plan and a lower threshold to lose rights in the plan. At the same time, she indicated that she would make a proposal with proposals for changes to the redundancy allowance scheme during the spring of 2017. So did it. The majority dealt with the issue of tightening up the rules on redundancy on 8 June 2017. The threshold for the granting of redundancy payments was higher, the duration was cut by one year, from four to three, it became more difficult to have the period of redundancy payments extended, and the quarantine of 52 weeks was introduced in order to receive redundancy payments for a new period. The intrusions were adopted by the Right, the Advance Party and the Left, against the votes of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, SV, the Christian People's Party and the Environmental Party of the Greens. Red was not present at that time. A proposal from the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV for a reform to ensure young people receiving redundancy benefits with residual working capacity, an offer of activity, education or work, was supported only by the Green Party and was voted down. All of this happened in the previous period. For those who rely on redundancy money, it was really a pity that the government was prepared to submit the cut-off proposal to the Stortinget before the 2017 elections. In the last growing period, it was enough for the Right and Advance Party government with the support of only one of the intermediate parties, and the Left provided that support. The restrictions were thus adopted. If the matter had been dealt with in Stortinget in autumn 2017 instead of spring 2017, the constellation Workers' Party, the Centre Party, SV, the Christian People's Party and the Green Party, which then voted against spring 2017, would have been enough to stop the contractions. I'm sorry. It didn't work out that way. The restrictions were implemented from 1 January 2018. We almost immediately saw the effects. There was a look-up in the media about people on redundancy pay who suddenly lost their income. Someone had not even received notice of termination before the money disappeared. Many of them were not even completed, neither for work nor for social security. Those who did not have other means of income were referred to social assistance or private support, and Nav had to complain that they had not been well enough prepared for the restrictions. Nav had managed to do this, but to warn the users and to make sure that they were finished before the money was stopped, it was worse. During 2018 more and more ended up in this hopeless situation, and I'm really afraid that we're just seeing the top of an iceberg so far. The Labour Party believes that this is serious. Together with the Centerpartiet and SV, we therefore made proposals in connection with the State budget for 2019 that Nav users who suddenly stood without income due to capacity problems in Nav would automatically have the benefit extended until a new decision was taken. We had arrived on December 5, 2018. On 13 December the proposal was defeated. Unfortunately, the Christian People's Party had jumped off. We can all think about why. It is also worrying that Nav himself is surprised that the reduction in the number of recipients of redundancy payments after the tightening up of 1 January 2018 is so extensive, for a total of 16 700 people, down to 124 000. I therefore continued to ask questions to the Council of State. A decrease in the number of longer periods of work clearance from 2016 to 2017 was explained by the Council of State that this was to a large extent those who came from the previous schemes of temporary unpaid pay, re-routing and rehabilitation and that had been completed. In any case, there was no tightening of the possibility of an extended AAP period prior to Storting’s tightening from 2018. Then I got access to internal alerts in Nav itself, among others. a number of messages in the Nav's own experience forum, where it is possible for case handlers to raise issues of common interest. There I found a number of messages from Nav employees across the country asking questions about what they experienced as an increasing degree of override from the performance management, in cases where the first line recommended exemptions from the duration limitations in the then section 11-10. We are talking about the time around the new year 2016–2017. Some of the messages show that there have been messages with questions about the home for this up in the building. A notice later, but we are still talking about the first half of 2017, refers to these messages and that they coincided in time with an internal reorganisation in Nav from 2016, when the management of the AAP was reorganized from 20 to 6 units. The notice refers to a change of circulars in 2016. I therefore asked a new question, but got the same answer: there has been no tightening of the possibility of extending the AAP before 1 January 2018, neither by law, regulation or circular. Nav is not familiar with the type of internal alerts. It seems strange that the users have been informed of a tightening that has not taken place. Even more strange is that Nav employees ask internally about changes that have not happened. It is even rarer when one of the internal alerts was not a case handler, but a person with professional responsibility in a unit who at that time had responsibility for the decision of one third of all the recipients of the job clearance. This is why this interpellation: Is it still such that the sharp decline in the number of recipients of the work clearance money we are currently seeing may at least partly be related to an internal Nav tightening of the exemption from the duration provisions even before the Stortinget tightened the rules with effect from 1 January 2018? And if that is the case, has there happened some kind of double tightening, which the Storting has not been aware of when we made our decision? My question to the Council of State is therefore whether or not this should be examined in greater detail. If yes, there should be a good enough basis for reconsidering the restrictions from 1 January 2018, if not otherwise for the benefit of those now on a bare hill, without any other than social assistance or private support to live on.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e1047	The representative of Christoffersen refers to the fact that she is familiar with an internal warning in the Labour and Welfare Act that there was an intensification in the etat's practice of the exemption from the duration provisions of the AAP before the legislation was amended in 2018. As I recently also answered the interpellant to a written question, no. 714, the Employment and Welfare Directorate has informed me that they are not familiar with such an alert. However, the agency’s circular was reworked in June 2016 and contributed to a more precise and concrete description of how to deal with the assessments of the right to AAP beyond the ordinary social benefit period. This change in the circular did not imply any intensification, but a clarification of the current right at that time. Furthermore, in 2016, a specialisation in the performance line was carried out in the Working and Welfare Act, where the management of the AAP ranged from being treated in all counties to being treated in six units. The Directorate has informed me that some of the units before this had a more modest interpretation of the provision on exemptions beyond the ordinary social benefit period than other units, and that some units have therefore been able to experience the work of ensuring that practices were in line with current legislation, such as intensification. In addition, the Directorate is not aware of any change in the practice and understanding of the law of the provision in 2016. The representative refers to the increased take-off from AAP in 2018. There has been a decrease in the number of recipients of the AAP over time, even before this government joined. The decline has been expected and hangs, among other things. together with the clarification of persons transferred to the redundancy allowance from the other temporary benefits, fixed-term unpaid pay, re-routing and rehabilitation benefits during the period. It implies that a greater take-off would have to be expected than the entry into the plan. At the same time, we see that there has been a sharp decline in 2018, following the entry into force of the changes in the code of work clearance money on 1 January 2018. There has been both a decrease in the entrance and a growth in the take-off. While the entry of the first three quarters of the year was reduced by 3.5 pst. compared with the previous year, the take-off increased by 19 pst. The provision on exemptions from the general duration provision for the AAP, to which the representative refers, was one of several provisions amended from 2018. It is important to stress that the AAP should be a temporary benefit, and an important purpose of the changes was to support previous efforts with a view to speeding up the return to work or education. It has never been intended that someone should have this as a more or less lasting income hedge. At the time of the introduction of the redundancy allowance scheme in 2010, the aim was earlier and better follow-up and more people needed to return to work more quickly. The main picture after a few years of operation was that the total duration of redundancy benefits was not reduced compared to the three previous benefits. The transition to work had also not increased. In other words, the system did not function according to purpose, and that was also the background for the changes in the law. People were not clarified either better or earlier – on the contrary many years after years without any follow-up that led them on. In order to increase the transition to work, efforts must be made early. The risk of not returning to work increases with the duration of absence. Better and more targeted social welfare schemes reduce the risk of permanent non-employment and can be achieved through previous start-up of labour-oriented activity and by carrying out medical and labour-oriented activities at the same time. Therefore, the maximum social benefit period was also reduced from four to three years. Experience with the previous legislation also showed that the provision on exemptions from the maximum duration was frequently used. In practice, the exception became almost a general rule, and it meant that people remained standing for a long time without follow-up and clarification. It's not good, either for the individual or for society. There was therefore a need to clarify in the legislation who would be granted a derogation and to regulate the duration of the derogation from the general rule on a maximum duration of three years. I believe it is important that there is a clear limit on how long it is possible to receive a mid-term income hedge, such as the redundancy allowance. At the same time, several other changes were made to facilitate better follow-up and to facilitate the transition back to work. The follow-up is more adapted to the assistance and follow-up needs of the recipient and is linked to natural stop points in the solstice cycle. In contrast to the old legislation, the recipient shall now be followed up after the implementation of the treatment or work-oriented measures. Furthermore, recipients of the AAP can now work up to 80 pst. for 12 months without losing the right to the AAP, against the previous maximum of six months. After treatment/actions are completed, many users will need some time to seek work. The period during which the user may receive redundancy benefits while seeking employment has been extended from three to six months. In other words, important extensions have also been made to the new legislation compared to the old one, which is often not so much discussed. But there are important changes. A number of other measures have also been taken to strengthen and target labour-oriented provision in the Labour and Welfare Act. The government has taken the initiative of including people, public and private, working together across different sectors, to get more people into the labour market. Changes in the pay-as-you-go scheme during 2019 will make it easier to apply to employers who want to hire from the target groups of inclusion. The aim is to increase the use of the pay subsidy scheme. Increased efforts on individual job support, IPS, should help to ensure that more people with mental health and drug problems are closely followed up on their work and health. Changes are made to the training measures of the establishment to provide more users with a better offer of formal competence, including: in the field of vocational and vocational training. The aim is to qualify more people for vacancies. For the municipal qualification programme, changes have been made from this year onwards to make the programme more flexible and accessible. Among other things, the age limit has been reduced to 18 years, education should be easier to implement in the programme and the one-off right to participate in the programme has been removed. The new IA agreement, which was just concluded with the social partners, reinforces the focus on early work in the workplace in order to prevent long-term sick leave and reduce unemployment. In cases where internal organisation does not result, Nav shall consider whether labour-oriented measures should be tested as early as possible and earlier than today. The IA Agreement envisages the launch of an experiment with the extension of the use of competence measures by the authorities in the event of long-term absence risks. Together, the changes in the legislation on redundancy payments and other measures taken, which I have just briefly mentioned, will help more people with reduced working capacity to get into regular work more quickly in a more inclusive and well-organised job. The new legislation for the AAP has been working for a short time. The impact of legislative changes is far too early to say, but this continues to follow up the ministry — even if there should be unintended consequences of legislative changes. The Directorate of Labour and Welfare has therefore been mandated in its letter of assignment to initiate evaluations of changes to the scheme. I believe that the adjustments made to the work clearance code will lead to faster clarifications and increased transition to work. Therefore, I do not now have any plans to propose changes to the legislation, but we will follow the changes that were introduced just over a year ago, and the effects of these, carefully. The aim is for more people to be followed up more closely, faster and better than before in order to avoid long, passive social welfare runs without a good enough follow-up, which leads to temporary long-term performance without further clarification. For some, there is clarification to disability, for others, there is clarification to work. But in any case, it is important to get a quick clarification to just avoid going in the dark, as in many ways it can be for a part that goes on the temporary benefits.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e1077	I thank you for the answer and note that the Council of State insists that there has not been a hitherto unknown tightening of the possibility of extending the AAP as of 2016, and that there is no reason to reconsider the tightening as of 1 January 2018. It's getting better, says the Council of State, but the users say something else. In the past, the exemption became a general rule. I don't think the statistics on the number of recipients of the AAP just point to that, but if so, who is responsible for that – is it the individual user, or is it the device that is there, or that should be there, for the individual user? However, when I am not quite satisfied with the answer, it is primarily for the sake of the users who are on the bar hill. After we started pecking in this, the mailbox has almost flooded with requests from people who don't know their poor advice, and it fits well with the picture Nav himself has given: a surprising sharp decline in the number of redundancy payments – a total of 16,700 fewer users in just one year, a decrease of 12 pst. This decline has particularly affected people aged between 40 and 60. There have been several disembarkations, but fewer with transition to work, and there are several who still have a reduced working capacity, but do not receive redundancy benefits even if they are not completed. So there are several of them that aren't done. Some people aren't even fully investigated in the health care system, so they don't get any further extension of that land. It could be a few before. If an uncompleted trial is done, you can just forget to apply for disability benefit, because it gets a rejection – a person is simply not allowed to apply. There are more women than men on redundancy pay. Psychiatric disorders among young people and musculoskeletal disorders among the slightly older are the dominant diagnostic groups. Many of them need a long race, but it's gotten harder. So what does the Council of State mean is the alternative for these people who are now outside everything? Nav has also not escaped the so-called red tape and efficiency reform – 300 million. kr i cut so far. The Council of State itself has provided a description in the State budget of increased processing times and too much time on review procedures. I don't really want to let go of the idea that for these people there has been a double contraction, because there is a striking timeline here, cf. my first post about what has happened in turn and order of warnings, and now it is confirmed that there have actually been changes, in a 2016 circular. It had not happened before, now it has happened, but there has been no content in the circular. We're going to get back to that. I still think there is a basis for drilling a little further on these questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e1086	I think we need to be aware that when you go from handling applications in many places to treating them in fewer places, you'll be able to discover that there may be different practices from place to place. This would mean that what could possibly be liberalisation one place could be seen as tightening up elsewhere. We have also looked at other benefits and in other areas that when you go from many to a few places, you discover that it may have developed different practices without necessarily changing the legislation. In this case, there are in many ways two issues. One is what concerns the legislation itself, whether you want the amended legislation or not. In the legislation we put forward, we raised the threshold to get into the system. We tightened the conditions and made it healthier. We shorted down to the social welfare period and provided a closer follow-up by Nav and more labour rights of the scheme. There's one discussion. The second discussion is the discussion that is taking place around many of those who go from one regulation to the other – they fulfilled the conditions of the old, but not in the new. There we have seen a very demanding situation, not least for those who may now have experienced loss of benefit before a new decision is taken, and where Nav now assured me that they have put all the cloths to contribute to both the skills of the employees and enough resources to process the applications quickly. It will be a transitional period. It's hard, I admit it. Then we have made many other changes, as I also mentioned, which could be good offers for many. In particular, for many of the young people with mild mental health problems, the qualification programme may be a more relevant offer, which also has a security of income. There we have both lowered the age limit and increased the possibility of taking education. We have also made important changes in the IA work to help reduce the number of people falling out of work. What might be the purpose and our most important job now is to help reduce the number of health-related benefits, because often the result is that you go there for so long. The more you can prevent there, the more important and better it will be at the other end. I believe that the changes we have made are good, important and correct, but I also see that it has been very demanding during the transition period we have now had, for those who go from old to new, and who have to provide more evidence that they meet the conditions. Many will probably also experience that they do not meet the conditions of the new legislation, and that will, of course, be a difficult situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e1105	For the right, it's a goal that we should be able to participate as much as possible in the world of work, because we know that work is so much more than a job to go to. It's cohesion, community, challenges and mastering. Not least, it is an opportunity to live an independent life and take care of themselves and their families. Therefore, necessary changes were made to the system of redundancy payments in order to get a shorter and tighter run for recipients and to get more quickly back to work. The longer a person is away from work, the more likely it is to fall out completely. Therefore, it is an advantage for the individual that this period does not go beyond what is necessary. Before the changes were made, the rules were such that exceptions to the possibility of enlargement often became a general rule, and that people remained standing for a long time without follow-up and clarification. It's not good, either for the individual or for society. Early follow-up and clarification are important for those receiving redundancy payments. That said, there have been good reasons for responding to several of the stories that have emerged in particular. The newspaper. It is, of course, unacceptable that Nav users have lost their income, without notice and without having dealt with their application before the payments were stopped. Nav's sorry about this. However, there is a difference between errors in the procedure or whether it takes a long time, and whether there is any regulatory error. 2.8 million users, of course, mean that errors can happen, even when we all agree that they shouldn't. But we usually hear about the exceptions, not the general rule. The purpose of the redundancy allowance is to ensure income while the beneficiaries are actively treated, involved in a job-oriented action or receive other follow-up with a view to obtaining or maintaining work. There is a significant activity obligation here – both for Nav and for the recipient. We make demands, but we also make demands. Most of those who start to receive redundancy benefits are persons who still have a reduced working capacity after illness or who are being treated after the sickness allowance has been used up. However, many were two months before they began to receive redundancy benefits, registered as without work, in addition to participants who have completed the qualification programme, have been in education or have been at home. The SINTEF assessment of the work-clearance system before the changes pointed out that more groups than those previously received rehabilitation money, back-up money and temporary unpaid pay – for which work-clearance money was a substitute – had been brought into the scheme. This applies, inter alia, to: young people without work experience, drug users and immigrants with weak Norwegian skills. Sintef considered that if they had not received redundancy benefits, they would be social beneficiaries, participants in the qualification programme or without their own income. They also concluded that the new groups that had come in should not be part of the scheme, because we have to provide the right action for the right person, and this was not necessarily so. SINTEF had been diagnosed for them for less than 30 years with mental illness or other diffuse problems. SINTEF pointed out that this type of symptom diagnosis can be about social problems, low self-esteem and poor self-confidence after many years of low mastering. Then you can ask yourself if a system that has clear demands for self-employment and clarification, rehabilitation and treatment is the right one. SINTEF also considered that the entry conditions should be strictly practised, in particular for young recipients. The error that has been made is that Nav users have lost their income, without notice and without having dealt with their application before the payments were stopped. This is now corrected in. However, it is not necessarily a mistake that fewer people receive redundancy benefits, either because they do not qualify for them or because they no longer qualify after a period of time. Then I want to say that of the 16,000 who have now left the scheme, Nav himself says that 40 pst. has gone to work. It's meant to be clarified, to be clarified, or to have gone over to disability. There is nothing wrong in itself that you clarify faster than before. Simple stories that we hear today can be very valuable feedback on whether a system works or not, or have unintended effects. But we're not case handlers in Nav. We don't have the whole story when we're standing here, and it would be unsustainable if the Nav proceedings were moved into the landfill. Some of those who have written to us write, among other things. that they would have come out better if they had chosen disability before. That's wrong. No one can choose disability benefits – or other arrangements, for that matter. In order to qualify for disability benefits, it is necessary, inter alia, to: the income is permanently reduced by at least 50 pst. due to disease and/or injury. This is not something you choose. Finally, just a little general reflection, which is not just about redundancy payments, but about the many Norwegian schemes and social benefits – that there always seems to be a will among those who will expand and erode schemes to apply more or more. It may sound very clever in the short term, but may be devastating to those involved, in the long term, and not least undermine the upsurge and sustainability of the welfare system that will be following us for generations.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e1130	Clearance of work is and has always been intended as a temporary benefit for those who have a reduced working capacity of at least 50 pst on grounds of illness, injury or lye. At the time of the introduction of the redundancy allowance scheme in 2010, it replaced three previous benefits — rehabilitation, re-routing and temporary disability benefits. The purpose of the new benefit AAP was and is to ensure income while the beneficiary is being treated, involved in measures or with another follow-up aimed at maintaining or obtaining work. A review in advance of the amendments that were adopted showed that several have received the AAP that previously did not receive it from the three old performances that were merged. The characteristics of many of the new recipients were weak employment relationships, poor language or low or no income. Several also had easier mental problems. Several analyses clearly show that the AAP is not an appropriate performance for them between unemployment and some health problems. In 2014, SINTEF surveyed what Nav employees working with redundancy money thought about the users of Nav – if they thought they would have better opportunities to qualify for employment if they had not been granted the AAP. About one in three supervisors answered yes. I quote: ‘Many respond that young people who do not have serious health problems would have a closer follow-up to the KVP or other social assistance.’ We can further read the report: ‘When we see who the NAV offices are experiencing too easily access to the AAP, these are quite clear groups. Those who need a different follow-up from what they get as AAP recipients are: · Young users without serious illness · Users with mental or diffuse disorders · Users with very poor language skills’» When the rules for the AAP were amended, the threshold was in practice raised by the fact that the disease requirement to obtain was made clear in the purpose paragraph, in line with the intentions of the scheme and the People’s Rights Act. The disease requirement is there to ensure that performance has benefited them with greater health constraints, those which the performance was intended to be reserved at the time of its introduction. This must also be the case for an extension beyond the maximum social benefit period. Something else would be illogical and break with the overall goal of the social benefit. In cases where there are conditions other than disease, injury or lying that make a person stand out of work, benefits and follow-up other than the AAP are the right one. This could be done, for example, by: be the KVP, the municipal qualification programme, where the follow-up of the individual user is closer and not least more tailor-made. This scheme is also strengthened by the government and provides good results. If the reduced working capacity is not significantly due to health-related conditions, such as: mastering problems, unemployment or economic or social problems, are not redundancy benefits necessarily due. We have to make sure that the different performances are used correctly. Of course, we should ensure that those who have health challenges, but also those who lack language or are unemployed, receive help. It is important that assistance is targeted and good, adapted to individual challenges, but then the follow-up of performance must be correct, and we need to look even more closely at how we can tailor schemes for individuals, based on the opportunities and needs of individuals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e1157	I would first like to thank the interpellant for an important initiative. Work clearance is an incredibly important income hedge for well over 100,000 people, so this is very central in our welfare country. When the issue of reducing the maximum period of redundancy payments from four years to three years was up, the Centre Party voted for it. We did it because we had to get better and faster treatment in the Nav system. But that also means that we assumed that the Nav offices were given the necessary resources and authority to follow up the users, so that we could get a proper review of the situation in which these people were, and – furthermore – that the necessary exceptions from the three-year rule could be granted by those who were in the meeting with the human being who might need further assistance. The centre party did not support the fact that there should be a time limit for exemption from the maximum duration and considered that the conditions for exemption had to be enforced locally by Nav. This meant that Nav should have the last word in the case of an extension of the benefit period beyond three years, and that this was the basis for the decision of the responsible Nav entity. We therefore thought that it had to be assumed that the beneficiaries of the redundancy allowance would retain the benefit until they were prepared for work or other benefits. If one could do this before three years had passed, it was excellent. There are few institutions that need more organisational, cultural and management reform than Nav. Today, we have a goal and result management in Nav that works very badly compared to what too many are most important, namely to get to work when you have problems with it, including: as a result of reduced working capacity. We therefore need a reform of trust in the Nav sector. To implement what I have just said, it means that more professionals are needed in the first line who are responsible for fewer people. The fact that you have to be responsible for an average of 90 people with redundancy payments says to most people that is too large a number to do a good job, when you know how complex challenges many of these 90 people have on average. We must therefore have a reform that involves greater authority and responsibility in the first lines. It is possible to implement what the Council of State has said, namely closer, faster and better follow-up. That's what happens in the first line, which is the central one here. Then we have to have a smaller and not increasing degree of override from Nav's performance management. More and more young people need better and closer follow-up than before in order to get to work. For young people who have completed or have fallen out of high school and are entitled to redundancy benefits, it is expected that they will be completed by the age of 22. The statistics show that more and more people in this age group are becoming dissatisfied. Sickness, disability and mental disorders mean that more young people need longer time to mature. More life experience and a greater perspective may be the difference between being in work, having a sea of anxiety or having problems with how to deal with other people. Those working with this age group experience that the necessary maturity can only be reached at the age of 25 and that, with the new exemption rules, it is difficult to find a way to extend the period of action beyond three years of unemployment benefit. Nav now experiences an increasing number of young people down to the age of 22 becoming permanently dissatisfied because they do not receive more than three years of unemployment benefit. This is not good for either the individual or society. The aim of this scheme must be to contribute to the widest possible integration of the labour market. The centre party is therefore in favour of considering extending the exemption rule for redundancies to prevent young people in need of follow-up beyond three years in order to be able to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e1174	I want to start by thanking the representative Lise Christoffersen for raising this important matter. There are many in Norway who now have no safe income from Nav, as a result of the tightening of the redundancy scheme. These are people who haven't been what a call clear for neither disability nor work. The new rules do not provide for people to have complex diseases that require treatment and distribution. They do not take into account the waiting time for action in Nav, nor do they take into account the waiting time in the specialist service. SV is very concerned about what we are now witnessing when it applies to those who miss the AAP without getting anything else. There is a patch in the welfare community that has been pulled out, and we are left with a leak of welfare state, where the first line in Nav, which is to follow up each individual, does not have the ability to decide on the performance. Many of those who are case handlers report a sense of powerlessness directed against the new rules on redundancy money. Last week I had a meeting with those who were affected by the changes. At this meeting many of the representatives of those working in Nav also arrived. The birth of those who had met was quite clear: the contractions in redundancy payments are leading sick people into poverty, in hopelessness and, in many cases, in a personal crisis. The new rules that bring this about have not worked for a long time, but what are the consequences in the longer term? I fear disastrous consequences when it comes to the number of those who are affected by this. Several of those who have already been frame are here today, and I'm asking the Council of State to explain to them how we can fix this again. They added in Nav despair of the situation. New rules for extension are missing the ability to perform discretion. Any extension in performance is attached at administration level to people who have not even met the individual. If you do not follow the strict rules for a two-year extension, you will simply stop the performance and in some cases you may not get anything from any place. Nav framework conditions are not what they should be. Many supervisors have up to 100 people to follow up, and the waiting time for interventions is often too long. There may be several months to wait. We also know that more than 600 people experienced performance cuts in 2018, without notice and decision. This was asked for reasons in the media from the director level of the department. I don't think we would have been satisfied with a reason from the administration if we had lost – or, for that matter, had been cut – our income without decision and notice. Many people who accept redundancy pay hardly need more than three or four years to be cleared for work or disability. The problem is that those who need it most often are those who are sickest, or who have the most complex conditions. They need more time, and this needs more attention. A so-called workline, where sick people are pushed out of the system, is a pure poverty line. For the vast majority of people, three years is not too short either if the system in Nav and the health services are rigged for this, but it is a huge problem that most of these times often involve waiting for either action or medical treatment. It is simply not these people's fault that they are not clarified within the deadline, but they are penalised unreasonably hard for an unworkable system.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e1191	Thank you to the representative Lise Christoffersen, who takes this very important matter into consideration. I have now been listening to both the government councils and representatives of the government parties and have been looking for someone who has somehow shown that you have understood how bad this is happening to people who do not own needles in the wall, are without work, have poor health and have problems in their lives – I find nothing of it, unfortunately. I find that reading from the legislation and saying that this is not an appropriate performance for these people. Yes, what is it appropriate to live on with a good life, in order to support your children, in order to be able to recover your health, or to be able to help qualify for a job? It's not easy. The Nav Act's purpose paragraph reads as follows: ‘... meet the individual with respect, contribute to social and economic security and promote transition to work and active activities’.» We are far away from it today, and I had hoped that the Council of State would have recognized that. Amendments to the AAP Code are required. Changes to the way Nav is controlled are required. And there needs to be a strengthening of both Nav's management philosophy and Nav's organization, so that they have time and opportunity to follow up those who need follow-up. It's possible to clarify quite a few, it's possible to help people qualify, but many people need longer time. When we discuss this, it sounds to me like someone thinks that just we manipulate enough, disease goes over a little bit faster too – it doesn't. Sometimes it takes time, but the jam can get people healthy again, too, if they have some degree of economic security at the bottom. Social problems don't get any less if you don't have income security, and health problems don't get any less if you have social and economic problems as well. It's the opposite. So what I'm very excited about – and I've always done – is this belief that it's going to be as much as possible for the people who work the most, because then you get to work. It's not like that, we don't have a job like that. The reality is that after these changes, there is less transition to a job than before. If you're going to get social assistance, there's a municipal benefit that's going to be tested every single month, and the requirements to translate what you own and have are very high. I also hear that there are others who point to the qualification programme. That's good. It's also a municipal benefit. So I see that the government here is pushing the responsibility to assist people in difficult life situations to the municipalities. That's exactly what the government is doing in terms of housing support, which is about providing some of the same groups with security in order to be able to live in their own homes. It is also greatly reduced under this government. This means that for those with the most difficulty, the auxiliaries are now severely reduced. I also hear that several people are talking about that there might have been something different practice. Yes, the Nav system has to have some degree of discretion related to individual treatment. There are a lot of people talking about individual treatment, but it might mean that practice has to be a little different from human to human, because it has to be an individual treatment of whether you need more time, if you need another measure, if that's how health services haven't helped a while, if you've got the help you need, and that you have holes in the CV, which the Prime Minister also talks a lot about. But I don't see any sign of it in the code. There you talk more about shorter time and more like everyone else. That's the opposite of customization. If there's something people who are struggling with health, economics and social problems need, there's an individual adaptation and a hub and an auxiliaries that are there to help you before it goes wrong, not where it says a note on the door: 'Turn in the door!' – no, which says, 'Come in, and we'll help you before it gets too wrong. There is a need for major changes here, and I had hoped that the Council of State would have recognised that this is the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e1218	People on redundancy pay are now in an unsustainable situation. That is why it is good that the representative Christoffersen from the Workers' Party has raised this matter with an interpellation. We now have stories that show that the changes in the laws that the Solberg government made in 2017 have serious consequences for individuals. It was warned, but now we see that the changes lead to people who are sick, abruptly – often without notice – tearing the carpet apart while they are either trying to be able to work again, or waiting to get granted disability benefit. Doctors call it "the driest" they've ever seen. Those who work in Nav describe it as an almost impossible task to have everyone followed up within the new deadlines. When the government justifies its policy of insisting that the most important criterion for welfare systems is that it should pay off to work, the road is short to actually say that it should punish itself to be ill. If you just cut enough in the benefits, or make it even a little bit more degrading to receive support from the community, people will get together and get into work, we'll believe the rhetoric of some on the civil side. They forget that what is and should be the trademark of the Norwegian welfare state is that even if you are unable to work for a short or longer period of time, it does not mean that you are thrown into poverty and insecurity. But now many of those with redundancy pay know this government's hard drive on the body, because of a policy that primarily helps to increase the poverty and powerlessness of those who are now affected. What we as society should do for those people who need to clarify their health and work situation is to give them a safe economic environment and time needed to get back into work. We have no faith in miracles, that people suddenly get fresh just because the social benefits are missing. People get poorer, but they don't get fresher at all. State Council Hauglie says that the aim of the AAP reform was to prevent ‘too many ports too long in passive social welfare runs’. A lawyer says to the newspaper that it must be a minimum to try to get into the situation of the recipients before making these kind of drastic changes. It is clear that the Council of State and the Government have a total lack of understanding of the life situation of all those who are trying to navigate in a jungle of forms, medical sessions, treatments, investigations, rejection letters and useless complaints. No one prefers to be in this system on a voluntary basis. Being sick is too many a full-time job. Getting back to work is also a full-time job for many people. State Council Hauglie is responsible for a Nav where the employees have to follow up up up to 100 recipients of redundancy payments each, and where the government with a cheese kut several hundred million dollars in Nav's budget. A better solution than this is to prioritize this societal task with the money needed to enable Nav employees to help people get back to work. When Hauglie was a health agency in Oslo, in 2013, she said about the many people who were allowed to cross the border, as at the time was four years, the following: “Unfortunately, we are dealing with a government that neither acknowledges the problem nor is able to do anything about it.” That's the way it is today, or really worse than that, because we have a government that cuts in the benefits of those who need them the most, and gives billions of tax dollars to those who have the most. They use the whip on those at the bottom of the ranking ladder, and serve carrots on carrots on carrots for those who have more than enough from before. It's at least a recognizable right-wing policy, but it's a little effective policy to get people to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e1240	This case shows the true face of justice policy. The right has a strange logic. Their tax policy means – and they claim for themselves – that rich people should be motivated to work harder by getting even more money. While in social policy, we see that logic has the exact opposite effect in terms of people who already have challenges in their lives. They shall be motivated by less money and cut off the arrangements that can assist. Of course, this is not related, but the ideological skyscrapers of the right stand in the way of solutions that tolerate the meeting with the reality of everyday people in Norway. What's worse, is that when we hear the stories and see the outbursts of individuals being hit by these cuts, then Right doesn't care what people say. One has to the dullness of this pulpit and of the representatives of the right, repeated extracts from reports, extracts from statistics to support the fact that the right has taken the plank. But we meet the people who are being hit by it, and hear the stories about how it feels, how it turns out. The President-in-Office now presiding is happy to play the tuba, and right now I would like to think of having a tuba to make the right side wake up. For what in the world is what it takes to get your eyes and ears up for what is now being told among the people who are being hit? If it had been the case that those who are going on redundancy pay and who are now being hit, who may have been dissatisfied, actually wanted to be dissatisfied, we would not have had the reactions we see today, then everything would have been very well. But these are people who want to work, there are people who want to get their lives going, but who feel that they're being strung in the wheels. The government is weakening hubs and cutters in Nav's resources, which could have helped people actually get to work and get their lives started. Heidi Nordby Lunde from the Right explains that it is an advantage for everyone that there is the shortest possible period of redundancy. Yes, everyone can agree. Especially those who are in the middle of it, want to try to either get to work or get started with their new life. If you get the help you need, you get the skills, the training, the offers that are needed to deal with the challenges you have, it's not something that's better for each and for the big community than that period is as short as possible. But the government just uses the whip and thinks that having one-sided cuts, without setting up, is what's going to happen. There's a clear ideological distinction between the right-hand side of politics and the left-hand side, which says we're not just going to make demands, we're going to make demands. We're going to have to deal with the individuals that this is about, with the offer to get on your feet again. I must unfortunately also ask in this debate where in all the world it has become by the Christian People's Party. They agreed with us on these contractions, because they probably saw the same thing as us, so how could this turn out. But today they are not even present in the hall. Have they given up the matter? Have they changed their vision? Or are they not allowed to say what they mean, because they have become a hostage in the new majority government? With one-sided cuts without taking good action, government policies are a line of poverty, not a line of work.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e1255	The President will state that it is probably good that the regulations do not allow blowing instruments on the platform.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e1260	Let me thank you for the debate, and let me regret that there will be no change, and regret to those who have taken the trip to the Stortinget to listen to the debate here today. Some comments: The representative, Wiborg, said that the redundancy allowance may not be appropriate for it and for it. In other words, the whole point of redundancy pay is that it is the measures to be adapted to the individual, not vice versa. That was the basis for the whole reform of redundancy payments. The Council of State says that it may seem that there has been a narrowing of the number of applications and that there may have been different practices. Yes, but there is some of the whole point of redundancy payments – that individuals are given measures and of a duration linked to their needs against the labour market to which they are to be assessed. It's clear there'll be local differences then. The representative, Nordby Lunde, indicated that it was an advantage for the individual with the shortest race possible. I fully agree with them that it's right, but it's not good if you're thrown into nothing. Now I'm not a lawyer, but one thing I'm inmari good at, and it's reading circulars that don't exist, and that suddenly exist anyway. It is a red-green circular from 2010 and a dark blue from 2016, and there are quite big differences between the two circulars. There comes the ideology. The 2010 review explicitly highlights the user perspective. It has been deleted in the 2016 circular. From then on, only legislation and time use apply. Nav's duty to the user was in a circular form from 2010, which had been deleted in 2016. The lack of follow-up was no longer a basis for revalidation in 2016. All exceptions have been shifted downwards and the restrictions are more clearly highlighted from 2016. The 2010 point on the need for activity-free periods before, during and after treatment, e.g. for people with mental illness, is gone in 2016. The point of insecure residual working capacity and providing the user with sufficient time also in case of small prospects for better working capacity is gone from 2016. The same is the point of prolongation if necessary for additional re-skilling, e.g.: to a master instead of a bachelor. In particular, they were those who, due to disability, are at the back of jobseekers. For me, this seems like a very clear tightening. But forget it! Look at what has happened now, and say that there is a reason to look at those contractions again. In fact, the right-wing parties are now able to make another big hole in the welfare state security network. Unfortunately, it looks like people have to wait until 2029 before we can start sewing that hole again.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e1277	I too would like to thank the inter-pellant for an important debate on an important issue that concerns many, and which is also important for our welfare systems. It's a little bit unclear to me after this debate what the opposition really wants, if they want to return to the old system, where more than what was meant, came into the scheme, where they didn't get fewer years into the scheme. There were no more people who got into work than what was intended. There were no legal obligations for Nav in the old arrangement. You could lose the amount of money if you tried to work. You could also lose the scheme if you did not get a job quickly enough after finishing the job. Nobody here says anything about whether that's where you want it back. I'll use it when you say that you want to make those changes. I also record that the opposition chooses to ignore evaluations. I think it's unwise. When key objectives of reform are not achieved, there are two choices. One is simply to continue to do what is contrary to the intention of the reform, or one can choose to make changes in the reform that bring us closer to what was political objectives and decisions in this room, namely faster clarification and closer follow-up. We chose to do the last one, make changes there. There have been several points in the debate. To Lundtegen and the management of Nav: I fully agree, Nav needed major changes in the management system. That's why we left it there too. It was extremely detailed earlier, we changed it. You can do more on your own now. Nav has been allocated more resources, both in the form of technology and in the form of human resources, just to follow up earlier. We have had important reforms there too. It's not right, as Karin Andersen says, that we push people from the state to the municipalities through the KVP. On the contrary, when the KVP was introduced, it was assumed that there would be twice as many people in the KVP as there is today. The municipalities also funded it. So the reality may be the other way around, that there are more people who have gone from the municipality to health-related benefits than what was planned. What's absolutely certain is that if we're going to be able to help more people into work and activity, we're going to have to work along several tracks. We must make sure that more young people complete and pass the school. We need to ensure that fewer young people get into Nav, and that, to the extent that they get into Nav, they get good follow-up and often qualify. We need to avoid falling away from work through long sick leave courses, and we need to work together better between health and work. All of this is done through improving the qualification programme, through school absenteeism, through the IA Agreement and through the measures we now have on cooperation between health and work. I think the changes we've made are right, but right now it's been a demanding period. I'm also the first one to admit that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e1294	So the debate is on case No. Four is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e1310	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, three rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e1319	I would like to start by thanking the Cooperation Committee on the matter. There is a great deal of consensus here, and the proposal is promoted by an overall committee. A sample was set up in 2014 to review the existing legislation and framework conditions for the management of urban and agglomeration flood management by municipalities and, in particular, to prepare a proposal for changes and improvements. Many municipalities have already made plans for principles or measures to deal with floods, while we know that we can expect to be more unpredictable in the years to come, and that therefore there is a need for better regulation. A challenge of overwater has been the gradual emergence of problems. The overwater sample estimated in its investigation that the total cost of damage arising from overwater was between 1,6 and 3,6 billion. kr per year. Both climate change and social development with increasing congestion can separately increase local and short-term water volumes. It can cause significant damage. Without preventive measures, the sample expects damage costs to follow the same trend. Over the next 40 years, costs in the order of 45 to 100 billion are indicated. kr. These proposals are intended to address increased costs by addressing future climate change planning with a view to preventing damage. Overwater damage prevention is far more reasonable than repairing the damage afterwards. It is not possible to determine how much we can save as a result of better water management planning. Good planning in the municipalities is the key to better management of the areas by watercourses, and the proposals promoted aim to provide a better basis for ensuring important river routes in the agglomerations. The Committee shall indicate in its opinion that it appears in the Notice. St. 33 for 2012–2013 that the national climate adaptation target is to prepare society to adapt to climate change. Climate adaptation is about recognising that the climate is changing, understanding the consequences and not least taking action to prevent damage, but also exploiting the potential for change. There is therefore a need for a State-designated authority responsible for the guidance and further development of the field. This responsibility is intended by the government to give to the NVE. The implementation of parts of the legislation has been proposed after the central authority is in place. The Committee stressed that this should not take a long time and asked the government to place responsibility for competence and professional guidance as quickly as possible. It is important to ensure that we are able to meet increasing levels of rainfall and greater variability in the future in a good way. Cross-administration cooperation will be important to reduce the risk of harm.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e1338	Thanks to the case spokesperson for good case-speakers' comments. Climate change is leading to more and more rainfall. In order to prevent flood damage, there is an increasing need for prevention and good planning. There are two main areas in particular that are relevant in the field of surface water problems. One is rivers that go over the widths because of a lot of rain or snow melting in the mountains. The other is large amounts of water in e.g. residential and congested areas as a result of heavy rain coal. In the news, we've heard of rivers that carry both houses and cars and parts of nature when they find new ways through the landscape because there's simply no room for the amounts of water. In cities and residential areas cellars are flooded because the wiring network to take the water does not have sufficient capacity. The question has been: What can we do? In any case, adaptations to expected climate change will always be relevant. Floods in flat terrain and urban areas cause major damage. Another and perhaps more complicated challenge is the flood of steep watercourses with huge water forces that not only cause great damage but are also directly life-threatening. First of all, this needs to be mapped and the critical points identified, and then action needs to be put in place. Saka we treat today, is so very important. Local authorities now have a better tool to assess the need for restrictions within the 100 meter belt from rivers. Construction shall not be prohibited, but the point is that restrictions and measures should be assessed so that a non-destructive watercourse is able to dissipate surface water. In addition, municipalities shall facilitate the holistic management of the water drawdown with the necessary infrastructure. Good planning is required, and municipalities are now given a place to have flat-rate decisions requiring solutions for run-off in the area section of the municipal plan. It's positive. We can read that several parties write in the notes on alternative budgets and resources to prevent flooding and slipping. It is important where physical action is already needed, but the whole point of this case is to get the best planning possible to prevent the risk of flooding and damage from overwater.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e1353	It is positive in this case that all parties agree on the description, that this with dangerous climate change poses an increasing threat to our infrastructure. I was there when there was a large flood in Glomma in 1994, and what we saw then was that it was the old houses, the old roads and the old wells that kept. That's the new thing we had done, that went the flute -- to say it like that -- in the water masses. This indicates that you had a slightly different understanding before that rivers and streams must have areas to make up the water when there are large quantities. It's getting more and more, and we're now in a situation where we've built a lot in areas where it probably shouldn't have been anything. It makes this a difficult task for the municipalities in the future, so it's important that they get this home. But it is also important that we are sure, both by the government and by the Stortinge, that the municipalities have the competence to do this in a good way, and that they have the money to do it. It is difficult to take money from the care of the elderly to new sinks and flood prevention. So there's a reason why multiple parties have pointed out that we've put more money into this. That's because the needs are big. This is going to come, and it's going to be problematic. If you now get a better system in place to deal with this, it's a good thing again, if you're going to be honest, until this is in place. This means that we need to increase efforts in this area both by government authorities and by local authorities in order to reduce the harmful effects of extreme weather in the future. So I'm really looking forward to more funding for this. The second is the great need of municipalities for replacements in their water and sewerage systems, because there are also quite a number of investigations. If you want to deal with this in the future, you might think that in that case the fees will be too high that it will be possible for the local government to make all of this at sea. So we might also have to look at how different parts of this can be financed in the future, so that our water supply is safe, that the flood is managed, and that the sewer is also managed, so that this does not create extra extreme situations in situations that may occur due to extreme weather, and that will be difficult enough to deal with in itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e1364	It is very good that there is a broad consensus on the legislative changes proposed by the government in this matter, and that will facilitate better management of the excess water by means of the Planning and Building Act. The new rules will allow municipalities to maintain flood management in a new way, and it is important in view of the major challenges posed by increasing river catchment levels. The legislative proposal is largely in line with the proposals for changes to the law of the WFD in the field of planning, as set out in the 2015 expert committee’s investigation. The proposals shall address increased costs by allowing the municipality to prevent damage through land-use planning. Overwater damage prevention is, of course, both more reasonable and better than repairing the damage in retrospect. We want to live in cities and towns that are good to live in. When the climate changes, we need a law that makes it possible to solve the challenges. There is nothing new that municipalities have to take into account the excess water. I live and live in a city where we've been doing this for hundreds of years. The new thing now is that the climate is changing rapidly. Overwater management can not only be carried out in small areas through construction works, it must also be based on plans that think completely. That is why I am very pleased that the Stortinget agrees with the proposal that the municipalities in their planning should facilitate a comprehensive and sustainable management of the water cycle with the necessary infrastructure. Climate adaptation is about recognising that the climate is changing, understanding the consequences and taking action to prevent damage, but also exploiting the potential for change. The government’s bill clarifies the responsibilities of municipalities to ensure climate considerations through greenhouse gas emission reduction solutions and adaptation to expected climate change. The government is concerned with preventing the adverse effects of extreme weather. This proposition, which Size is now in the process of finishing, is just a first step. We are also working on following up the other recommendations from the water body. For example, I can mention better management of floods in construction works, damage safety requirements, imposition of measures in existing buildings and the financing of fees for flood measures. This will be followed up by the government in the time to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e1381	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e1397	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, five lines be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e1406	First of all, I would like to thank the committee for its work on this proposal for a representative. This case concerns a proposal from representatives Karin Andersen, Une Bastholm and Bjørn Moxnes. In the case, three proposals are made. The first proposal is to introduce a limitation period for the withdrawal of citizenship. The second proposal is to introduce a time limit for the application of the procedure for the withdrawal of citizenship. The third proposal is to introduce the requirement of dual citizenship for withdrawal of citizenship. The size has previously dealt with similar proposals. It was also decided at that time not to enter into an investigation into a limitation period for the withdrawal of citizenship, but it was stressed that a proportionality assessment had to be carried out in such cases. This is followed up by the government. A majority of the Grand Duchy has previously decided that withdrawal of citizenship shall be effected by judgment. Such a case has been in consultation and will be dealt with in Stortinget. There are some elements in the matter that may be interesting and relevant to this matter. Then I would like to mention what came out after the hearing on the matter of judicial review of the revocation. In fact, there are other ways — which have been made visible — of strengthening legal certainty and safeguarding the intention of the Stortinge than by dealing with cases in court. Another factor is that a proportionality is proposed and that it is legislated. A third factor is that, as a general rule, children and grandchildren should not lose their citizenship. There are three important elements to ensure legal certainty and also the situation of those who have been affected. A majority of the committee does not support the proposals in the matter, and I assume that the respective parties speak for their proposals and opinions later. I would like to add some comments to the proposals. First, until the limitation period: for the Progress Party, it is very important to have the opportunity to recall a citizenship given on wrong premises, even if it has been a long time. Doing the opposite, i.e. setting a limitation period, will signal that if you cheat on false history or false ID to Norway, it will pay off only if you keep the lie long enough. It's a wrong signal to give. There are also very specific experiences that will make it very difficult to enforce perfectly clear intentions to eliminate crime, for example, and other abuses of the scheme. The police say they have quite clear cases that it has been operated on with double identity in order to engage in extensive crime. If, after a certain period of time, you can't withdraw a citizenship when such things turn out, yes, you're pretty paralysed again. Another thing is that there are very specific issues in which people have been granted citizenship with one identity and residence permit with another, and thus, for example. can raise double social security from Nav. These are things that governments must have the opportunity to break down if they are to be able to enforce Norwegian laws in a good way. If you had agreed with the rapporteurs' point of view here, the authorities would have been deprived of that opportunity. As regards the time limit, the intentions are certainly good, but it will also help to weaken legal certainty in complex cases where it takes a long time to have verified documents and to get to the bottom of the case. If a time limit is set, a decision must be taken before a full target is reached. The Progress Party is pleased that the large majority of the Committee does not support these proposals and we look forward to further consideration of the legislative proposal that will come.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e1434	For the Workers' Party, the legal certainty of the individual is important. During the last period, we were given the impression that a proportionality assessment had to be carried out in the event of a withdrawal of citizenship. Particular attention shall be paid to residence and links with Norway. It is serious to be deprived of citizenship and to lose ties with a country. Because the legal certainty of individuals is important, we also received legal redress in the event of withdrawal of citizenship. This means that all cases shall be dealt with in detail before any decision on revocation is taken. So far, the government has not been able to follow up the decision to strengthen the security of those in these difficult situations. The decision to revoke citizenship was examined last year by the Court of Justice. The Christian People's Party, the Left and the SV made a proposal that the government should issue a limitation period. The proposal was not adopted. It stressed that a proportionality assessment should be carried out. The size has decided that the period of residence and the length of the period of nationality shall be included in the assessment on withdrawal. The Ministry has proposed, in a consultation note, that the proportionality assessment be legalised and that the following should be emphasised: the period during which the person has been a Norwegian national and, where appropriate, the other citizenship of the person; the person's relationship with Norway. Here, the person’s residence in Norway, relatives of the person in Norway, and the person’s age on arrival in Norway will be relevant. Provision must be made for links with other countries in which the person may have citizenship. whether the person has family and, where appropriate, minor children in Norway and whether family life was established before or after the person should understand that the loss of citizenship could be relevant; the degree of integration through, inter alia: education and work This is a start to ensure that people associated with and living in Norway are not thrown out on an unlawful basis. It has already been decided by the Stortinget that the child should not lose his or her citizenship as a result of mistakes made by parents or grandparents. It is paradoxical that we, as a nation, make higher demands on the identity of citizenship than we do in order to obtain a residence permit. Therefore, the Workers' Party believes that we have to make demands for identity much earlier. We want to map the identity of those who come before they come.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e1464	Thanks to the case spokesperson for good case-speakers' comments. I mentioned that the government was in full swing following up on a similar Document 8 proposal that we had in the previous period. An absolute limitation period, which is also proposed this time, will be very unfortunate for society and will make it more possible for people to continue to live a double life on different identities. Applicants may also have provided Norwegian authorities with incorrect information about their identity, which may not yet be detected. A Norwegian citizenship also provides rights which can be used for illegal activities in other countries and, in the worst case, it can also pose a security risk. In the Ministry’s letter, it appears that the Directorate of Foreign Affairs has seen people involved in criminal activities such as drug trafficking and transferring large amounts of money to their home country. There is also a case where the individuals themselves do not want to cooperate to clarify their correct identity and it is impossible for Norwegian authorities to have the identity of the person in their home country verified. We have also had people who, after a time of Norwegian citizenship, seek protection or detention in other countries for an identity different from that registered here in Norway. In addition, individuals have applied for citizenship both in Norway and Sweden for different identities. Here in Norway, the police have discovered that people have had several different identities — Norwegian on the one hand and have permanent residence permits on the other, and receive double Nav’s contributions. We don't want such relationships, and it's very important and right in many cases to have the opportunity to revoke. Having an absolute deadline for recalling would be very unfortunate. Although it may have negative consequences for the debtor, that uncertain withdrawals in time, the time factor must never become an excuse to prevent withdrawals of Norwegian citizenship. Fortunately, the proposal was not accepted at the time, nor is it agreed today. But in the setting we had some time ago, there was a majority for a cohesion assessment, and in the government's hearing letter, it was explicitly stated that there should be a co-assessment of the issue of revocation of Norwegian citizenship by judgment. In practice, this means that in cases of revocation of citizenship, emphasis shall be placed on the length of time that the person has our Norwegian citizen, or, where appropriate, on the other citizenship of the person, and on the relationship between the person and Norway. Here, butide, degree of integration, relatives and family, and whether the family has been established before or after the person should have understood that the loss of citizenship could have our current, are important factors to consider. This must be seen in relation to other countries in which the person may have citizenship. In addition, it shall be evaluated whether the loss of citizenship results in a stateless person becoming a stateless person. It's also important to evaluate and look at. For the Right, these are good and relevant factors to consider. In the hearing note, proposals were also made for legislative changes to clarify that, as a general rule, children and grandchildren should not lose citizenship as a result of mistakes made by parents or grandparents of the child. In sum, I think we have a good approach to the challenges, and the Right believes that there is no need for a deadline for the withdrawal of citizenship.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e1485	It is easy to understand that for the individual who is informed that withdrawal of citizenship is assessed, it is very burdensome, natural enough. The central party considers that it is important to protect those persons who are reinstated and who live with the message that they are at risk of losing their citizenship. We have therefore in the past been on the proposal that this should only be done in court, and that there should be exceptions for children and grandchildren. We are very pleased that there was a majority for that. The centre party is committed to ensuring legal certainty, and we believe that the entry into force of the exemption for children and grandchildren where they cannot lose citizenship due to incorrect information from parents or grandparents can help to reduce the unfairness that many experience in recalls of citizenship and that it will ensure that it does not inadvertently affect it. There are important practical changes that need to be put in place as soon as possible. In this case, we support a time limit for processing time to ensure that the waiting time from notice of possible revocation is not excessive. The introduction of an absolute limitation period will be able to send a signal that, after a period of time, it will not have consequences to provide incorrect information in order to obtain citizenship. That is why the Centre Party will not support that proposal. When examining Document 8:33 for 2016-2017, the Court’s ability to carry out a proportionality assessment was a central issue. That assessment will enable many of the considerations to be taken into account by a limitation period. The courts are well qualified to carry out proportionality assessments and to assess the reasonableness of any revocation. In the examination of document 8:33, it was clearly underlined that it is assumed that in the context of this proportionality assessment, the courts pay particular attention to residence and, for example, to the issue of housing. the duration of your citizenship. After a person receives notice that the authorities are considering the withdrawal of citizenship, it may take years before they hear something more, and it may take many years for them to obtain a clarification. I think that's unacceptable, and it's too long to live in uncertainty. The centre party therefore considers that it is necessary to consider a time-limit for the time-limit for the time-limit after prior notice has been received in order to ensure that people do not have to wait for a very long time before they are able to clarify their situation. Any time limit must allow the administration to carry out an in-depth assessment as well as secure processes that ensure legal certainty for the individual, while providing a framework for the time needed to reach a final decision. Therefore, the Central Party supports the proposal to investigate a period of time from the date of forwarding a notice of withdrawal of citizenship until the case has to be settled by the foreign authorities of the first instance. I'm disappointed that more people don't want to be part of it. The Party expects that the legislation to ensure that children and grandchildren do not become victims and judicial proceedings will be put in place as soon as possible, in order to ensure that those waiting for clarification can receive an answer. Finally, I would like to promote the proposal on which the Central Party is involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e1500	The representative, Heidi Greni, then mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e1505	Citizenship is a very important matter for people, and for those who are going to live in Norway for a long time, it is an advantage to be a citizen, with the duties and rights it entails. Most countries have a limitation period for the withdrawal of citizenship. The problem we're seeing now is that the government has invested a lot of resources to dig in some old things, where it sounds like everything you might find there is about serious and serious crime. I hear some examples that some people have had more identities. Yes, there must be an error in the procedure until the person has been given his/her permission. I would like to remind you that the government is extremely eager to put in place biometric identification, which you've been working on for many years, and which could have solved the problem that someone can operate with multiple identities. There may be a lot in the application processes in critical situations where there may be a mistake – whether it is intentional or not – but now you have to deal with everything as if it were very serious crime. For serious crimes in Norway, it is the limitation period, it is only the most serious that has not. And what's the reason for that? One of the main reasons is that things are difficult to prove after very many years, and how on earth should it be possible to prove errors in documents after 15-20 years in a country where there is no record of documents at all? The question is, why do you make this a very dangerous matter for Norway? The case that really got this out in the search light was the Mahad case. I mention it, because it is important, as it also shows something else that is grossly unfair in the way we are dealing with these matters now – and the matter of which there was a lot of trouble – namely the loss of citizenship as punishment. Because how are the rules there? Well, there you have to be over 18 before any of what you say is taken into account, if you're going to lose your citizenship. So in these cases, we put a child in charge of what they said when they are 13-14 years old. Then it's okay, then you can lose your citizenship. In those cases, there is also a requirement for dual citizenship, that is, not to make anyone stateless. It is not about excluding any citizenship because of errors that have been made. I am aware that it is not an absolute ban on making people stateless, but is it a good intention to sanctify this very strict regulation, where one now does not want deadlines, but says that one should have a proportionality? This must mean that in some cases you have to ignore this. Or isn't that what that means? It must mean that in some cases one should say: This error has been made, but we ignore it. Is it then time that goes by – we are talking about a time limit where it is reasonable to put that kind of mistake aside when there is nothing in the case that shows that he is a serious criminal, or that there has been a problem from this, that there may be a person who has said something wrong in a desperate situation? It is possible to have reactions other than the loss of citizenship of such things. It sounds like you're saying that it's kind of okay to do it. No, that's not okay, but it's possible to have reactions that are more proportionate. The proposal that when the authorities deal with such a matter, it must be a limitation period, I really would have hoped the Stortinget would have been there, because it is grossly unreasonable that we should be able to deal with these matters for years. Now the Council of State, which is also the Council of State for Integration, is sitting here – how in all the world people should be able to integrate themselves if they are to live with this in years after year? It'll probably help a little if you know it's not going to affect children and grandchildren, but there's no good situation for them to live with either. In this case, the authorities should at least be able to set a line when they have initiated such a case.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e1520	Is the representative likely to make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e1525	I would like to address the suggestions SV is only about in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e1530	The representative, Karin Andersen, has then taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e1536	Once a party has become part of a government, the opposition will be able to accept that, in some cases, attitudes other than those expressed earlier – even, in some cases, vote against their own proposals. In this case, the line of the Christian People's Party has been – and is still – that this should only be used in very special cases. Yes, I am aware that we have previously voted that this should be a limitation period. During the debate and the illumination of the various sides of the matter, we have come to the conclusion that we can stand on what is the government's position. In this case I do not need to see the shame down, but rather take note that there is room to meet myself in the door when the accusations about it hopefully come. So to the very point: the withdrawal of citizenship is a very serious act, and it must be governed by rules that ensure that it is applied proportionately. The consequences for both the individual and his/her family must be taken into account – as must the severity of the relationship. Cases of withdrawal of citizenship are highly resource-intensive to be dealt with by the foreign authorities, who also have an obligation to ensure that the case is as well informed as possible before a decision is taken. The withdrawal of citizenship shall continue to be an exceptional measure following evaluation of criteria such as: the duration of the person's nationality and, where appropriate, other citizenship; the person’s relationship with Norway; family and minor children in Norway degree of integration, including: education and work the general rule that, as a general rule, children and grandchildren may not lose their citizenship as a result of errors committed by their parents or grandparents; With that, I recommend the committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e1565	This issue is about the basis of our democracy and Norway as a rule of law, and I must say that when I hear the debate here, I think it is a little bad with the basic liberal values in Stortinget. Human rights confer any right to a citizenship of the State in which you belong and without a principle of equal treatment for all citizens also lack a fundamental foundation of democracy. The Greens therefore believe that citizenship should be an inalienable right for all. Getting granted citizenship may be high, but once you've got it, there's nothing the state should be able to withdraw, because belonging to a state is something that a citizen owns, that's something you have the right to. It's not a medal the authorities give you to be law-abiding, to be nice – or to be Norwegian, for that matter. That one then at least sets a deadline for how many years it can go before the country's long arm comes and withdraws your citizenship should at least be a minimum. If you have provided incorrect information for your stay and after each citizenship, you should of course be punished with a fair and reasonable judgment, but the fact that you have lived in Norway for very many years in the meantime makes Norway's membership equally real. I hear it refers to dual identity, which is a complete anecdotic derailment of the entire debate. It's illegal. The state has every opportunity to drag these people into court, so the court can make that judgment. But here we're talking in principle about who owns a citizenship once you've got it. Not having a limitation period violates the legal principles of limitation and predictability. In the preparatory work of the Penal Code, there is a very central concern behind the rules of limitation that the value of the evidence is weakened over time. Not only does it become more difficult to prove guilt, it also becomes difficult for citizens to prove their innocence, and it should weigh heavily in a state of law. A limitation period shall reflect the seriousness of the acts. Examples of criminal acts that are now out of date are gross human trafficking, slavery, gross bodily injury or abuse, and the only crimes in criminal law that do not have a limitation period are murder, terror, serious war crimes, rape and sexual intercourse with children. In 2016, Stortinget addressed a proposition to ensure that the authorities comply with legal certainty requirements under the Constitution and international conventions. A unanimous Judicial Committee then delivered the following opinion: «The limitation period is an important guarantee of legal certainty which provides individuals and businesses with the necessary predictability. In addition, there are efficiency considerations and there will always be a need to set a penalty access point.’» I fully agree with that. It is therefore strange that the majority in this case today opposes the limitation period for withdrawal of citizenship. It will, of course, give the administration an incentive to carry out more thorough investigations into the proceedings themselves and prevent possible cases of withdrawal. So it makes sense even if you want to prevent bureaucracy and overrepresentation. I think it is important to have one thing that has not been mentioned in the debate so far, and that is that Norway's routines and possibilities for the likelihood of the truth witnesses of asylum seekers and the reasons for the asylum application have become much better. So what we're talking about here in the first place is not the signal that Norway is giving for the future, it's the ones that came here in the 1990s, when Norway had poor procedures for promulgating the claims that we're talking about. Today's rules create an "A" layer and a "B" layer, and here I come back to the principle liberal values this magnification is going to stand for. We who have been Norwegian citizens since birth belong to the A-Team, which has an inalienable citizenship. We can practice terror, cheating, lying, stealing and killing, but we won't lose our citizenship. Citizens who were not born in Norway, but who came to Norway 20 or 30 years ago, belong to the B team. They can even be made stateless because they may have made mistakes when they came here and applied for asylum. For me, such discrimination has nothing to do in a modern state of law. Without a limitation period, Norway provides far less legal certainty for its citizens than for many other countries in Europe – Germany, Finland, Belgium and France all have limitation periods, and it is also common in Europe that there is no practice of withdrawal of citizenship at all, because it is assumed that the authorities did their job at the time of residence and when they got citizenship.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e1591	Legal certainty is a prerequisite for almost all the rights we have. I hope we in Stortingen agree to strengthen legal certainty and protect it, regardless of what you might think about immigration issues. We should also agree to impose strict requirements on the bodies dealing with applications for asylum, residence permits and ultimately citizenship – requirements for quality, thorough and effective treatment. Where errors are made and new information needs to be collected, it should be done within specified timescales. These are quite fundamental and reasonable demands we should agree to address UDI, UNE and the courts. If UDI and UNE do not have time to deal with these cases within a given period of time, e.g. five years, 10 years or more, the solution is not to continue without a limitation period. Then the solution is to increase the capacity. The system is designed to take care of people who are going to get their cases dealt with. Then people are not going to adapt their fates to bureaucratic obstacles, but it's obviously a little too many parties on the Stortinget have unfortunately forgotten. There are some issues that do not have a limitation period, such as: rape, murder and serious acts of terrorism. When we have no such deadline for other crimes, most of the crimes, it's for good reasons. It's, as we know, because evidence weakens over time, and because long processing time is a huge touch for the individual, which in turn has huge ringing effects for the community around it. People who are otherwise at work and who keep the wheels going, life is put on hold and thrown into uncertainty. As a result, cases pending after last year’s decision on court proceedings should be dealt with as soon as possible, so that people return to their community life in Norway and do not wait for an answer. A Palestinian family is now at risk of losing citizenship — after nearly 30 years in Norway. Children and grandchildren shall be punished for an alleged procedural error 20 years ago. We had, think many, abolished inherited sin in Norway, but obviously not in the case of descendants of immigrants. If the family members lose their citizenship, they become stateless. They end up in a legal no-man's country. They don't want the right to live or live in any country in the world. This corresponds to the Labour Party, the Right and others with the diffuse concept of ‘proportionality assessment’. What we need are firm rules and firm frameworks over political fog talk – and a system that demands, just as we demand the people who get their cases dealt with in the system. There are several integration challenges in Norway, but spending time and effort on going through 20–30 year-old citizenship issues is not one of our integration challenges. On the contrary, it damages integration work because it creates insecurity among immigrants and their descendants. Should people be able to become active participants in our society, and if we are to get a good integration here in the country, is a basic security for being Norwegian, and that you belong to Norway, a prerequisite. I want to commend the youth parties, who – apart from the Youth of the Advance Party – have collectively gone out and demanded a limitation period for withdrawal of citizenship. Unfortunately, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party are making a complete turnaround in the matter, but their youth parties stand firm and do not give in to the pressure of the Advance Party and the Right. We in Red believe that everyone should have the same legal certainty, and we demand that the protection and rights of our citizens should be first priority wherever they originate.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e1614	The Ministry of Knowledge has, at the hearing, made proposals for amendments to the Civil Code which may take account of the considerations to be taken into account in the limitation period. The proposals follow up the request decision of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg of 9 May 2017, which was adopted in the context of the examination by Storting of the draft representatives on judicial proceedings in the event of revocation of citizenship. In the consultation note, this includes, inter alia, the following: the proposal to legislate that Norwegian citizenship should not be withdrawn if, in view of the seriousness of the relationship and the nationality's relationship with Norway, it would be disproportionate to the person himself or his immediate family. The assessment shall include, inter alia: emphasis is placed on the length of the person’s residence in Norway and the duration of the person’s stay in Norway. It is proposed to include any statelessness as part of the assessment of the proportionality of the withdrawal of Norwegian citizenship. Legislative changes have also been proposed to clarify that, as a general rule, children and grandchildren cannot lose citizenship as a result of errors committed by their parents or grandparents. A limited derogation is proposed for cases where the child has little connection with Norway. It is proposed that the citizenship of the child may not be revoked if the child thereby becomes stateless. Furthermore, it is proposed to clarify in the law that the best interests of the child should be a fundamental concern in matters relating to children. The administration and the courts are well-suited to carry out proportionality assessments and are able to take account of the considerations to be taken into account in the limitation period. The legalisation of the proportionality assessment will further ensure this. An absolute limitation period for the withdrawal of citizenship could have adverse consequences. In some cases, the seriousness of the relationship may be proportionate and desirable to recall, even though it has been a long time since he became Norwegian. There may be cases where the person actively uses different identities, such as: to commit serious crime. He/she does not necessarily have his/her primary relationship with Norway and may reside abroad. A limitation period will make it more possible for persons to continue to live double lives on different identities. Norwegian citizenship also confers rights which may be used for illegal activities in other countries and, in the worst case, that person may pose a security risk. In these cases, it is important to have access to recall. Cases of revocation of citizenship are highly resource-intensive to be dealt with by the non-resident authorities, which are obliged under the Administrative Act to ensure that cases are as well informed as possible before a decision is taken in the case. The cases shall be dealt with and assessed individually in a manner which ensures the legal certainty of the individual. A general time limit for this type of case will not be suitable for individual treatment. Although it may have negative consequences for the time-out of the case, serious considerations, such as control considerations and legal certainty for individuals, suggest that no time-limit should be imposed in those cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e1639	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e1644	Last year, the Workers' Party, together with the rest of the opposition at that time, had the effect of bringing an action for revocation of citizenship. In the same proposal, it was emphasised by the Committee that in all cases of withdrawal, there should be a proportionality assessment that should focus on living time and relationships with Norway – in order to ensure that people with their whole lives in Norway should not be deprived of their citizenship for de minimis reasons. The case of legal proceedings is now open to consultation. How does the Council of State feel to ensure the legal certainty of the individual to be withdrawn from his citizenship?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e1649	The hearing has now ended, and the Ministry is considering the hearings that have been received. There have been many important things that we are now going through and assessing. What is going to be central is precisely the lawfulness of the proportionality assessment. We believe that this is a central point and that it can take account of the considerations that the limitation period is intended to take place. I intend to submit proposals to the Stortinget before the summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e1654	We receive many enquiries from people who are informed of a possible revocation, and then it goes many years before they hear anything more from the authorities. We also have examples that, after receiving such a warning, they experience that they have been granted family reunification, for example, or family start-up with a wife from abroad. They get kids, establish families, etc., and it goes many years before they hear anything more. Many people feel that the case is then abandoned, but after perhaps five to six years they are told that citizenship has been revoked. Is it true that there can be so many years from the moment they get the notice until they get a clarification? And if that's true, what will the Council of State do to reduce this processing time? I expect that we agree that this is a very heavy burden?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e1659	Now it is difficult for me to comment on the content of the enquiries the representative of Mr. Greni had to receive, and it is also not possible for me to say anything in general about the time spent on these kinds of matters, except that there are demanding issues. Individual consideration shall be given here, legal certainty shall be ensured, and there is also a need to exercise control of the information received. The fact that the matters are demanding also makes it possible to take some time. After all, many issues have also been raised pending the matter we are going to put forward before the summer. This means that there is a significant residue that also needs to be handled. However, I agree with the representative that it is in everyone's interest that these matters should be dealt with as quickly and effectively as possible, while at the same time respecting the interests of control and legal certainty.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e1664	There are important aspects of this case that are about the relationship between the state of law and the individual citizen, which I do not think the government is particularly serious. The Council of State is now saying that it can be a de minimis matter. But a de minimis relationship may also be a mistake that has been committed and that has been committed a long time ago. Then the court has principles for the limitation period in other cases, especially because there are problems in proving things that have happened a long time ago. So there's an insurance on the part of the authorities that you shouldn't commit an assault on people where the seas have little opportunity to prove it, and where the authorities' ability to clarify the facts in the matter is reduced. Doesn't the Council of State see that they are present in these matters in general when it comes to something as serious as citizenship?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e1672	Well, I totally agree that these are fundamental and important issues, and that it's about the relationship between the rule of law and the individual. That's exactly why I feel that the whole Storting is taking these questions very seriously, where the majority is now awaiting the thorough preparation of the case that the Department has related to the matter that we intend to put forward before the summer. As I stressed in my statement: with the establishment of the principle of proportionality, Norwegian citizenship shall not be revoked if, in view of the seriousness of the relationship and the relationship between the citizen and Norway, it would be disproportionate to the person himself or to the immediate family. The assessment shall include, inter alia: the length of time spent in Norway. So here we're just taking into account the individual and ensuring legal certainty.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e1679	The reason why the government is working on this is that there's a majority on the Storing that has asked the government to do it, it's not the government's own initiative to do this. But since we now have a law that allows us to deprive some citizenship of punishment, and there are the requirements that we should not be punished with losing citizenship for some acts that we have committed before we were 18 – the law on the withdrawal of citizenship is not like that today – I have to ask the Council of State: if he thinks it is reasonable that we have a stricter treatment for someone who may have made a mistake in a very tight and serious situation, which does not really mean that something else has been done in retrospect, than for him, for example. Have you committed a terrorist act against Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e1684	I'm not going to go further into these issues now, and it's because of the reality that we're now evaluating the hearings that have come, and that we're going to file the case before summer. The Stortinget will then have a thorough opportunity to assess all aspects of this matter. Let me just point out that both the 1997 European Council Convention on Citizenship and the 1961 United Nations Convention on the Limitation of Statelessness provide for withdrawals in cases where citizenship is acquired on the basis of incorrect information. That means that this has also been anchored in international law, and the questions the representative raises will allow us to come back to at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e1691	There are some concepts that go a little bit further in the debate. One of them is the term ‘absolute deadline’. There is no deadline today. We're talking about whether it should be a deadline at all. In most cases, I believe the whole Storting could have agreed that there could be exceptions to that deadline, for example. if you commit acts of terrorism against the state. Another concept that goes back is this with proportionality, and I think it's good that we have also taken a political position on it. But it is also the case that in administrative law it is already an illegal principle to assess proportionality and proportionality, so that it is brought into the courts now, it will already take care of it. What I miss, both from the Council of State here and in the debate, are the fundamental assessments of who actually owns a citizenship once it's given. My question is: why does Norway need more control than France, Belgium, Finland and Germany?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e1700	This is where each country gets its own answers. I don't see any reason why I'm going to go in and evaluate the rules you have in other countries. We have carried out and carried out our assessment of this. What seems to be at the root of both the representative's questions now and the speeches earlier today is that, in principle, there is a disagreement that it should be possible to exclude citizenship. There I refer to my previous answer, that it is provided for both in the Council of Europe Convention and in the United Nations Convention on the Limitation of Statelessness. So this is allowed in both Norwegian law and international law, and we believe that it is an important tool that the authorities must be able to have in special cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e1707	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e1714	Some strange claims have been made in this debate. The representative, Karin Andersen, says that everyone is treated as if they have committed serious crime. That's not right. That is precisely the point of proportionality, which has been underlined by several, who are speaking against everyone being treated as if they have committed serious crime. The point is that you should still have the opportunity to act against those who use and abuse a Norwegian citizenship that they have got on the wrong premises to commit, among other things. crime. The proportionality assessment shall take into account, inter alia: the seriousness of the relationship. If you have lived in Norway for 20 years, you made a mistake when you got it, and if you are well integrated today, it will be heavily emphasised in such a case. That's why it's not right what's been done. Many people like to compare with the limitation period for serious crime. It's also a strange comparison, because it's not punishment to return anything you shouldn't have. It is not punishment if you steal a car, to return it. Therefore, it is not punishable to return a citizenship that you should not have either. It is strange that the Green Party does not believe that it should be able to take from anyone a citizenship that they obviously should not have. Yeah, I mean, it's naive. The representative, Andersen, has also asked some questions as to why it is not possible at least to impose a double nationality requirement if a citizenship acquired on the wrong premises is to be taken. There are several reasons why it should not be introduced. One reason is that it would be very easy for a person who is in danger of losing it, and has cheated on a Norwegian citizenship, just to get rid of the other. It is then impossible to trade against obvious cheaters. It is a naive and misguided approach to the problem. The reason why citizenship cannot be lost, for example. are convicted of serious crime and terrorism, are international conventions which prevent it. I think Andersen's representative can be very sure that if it had been possible to take citizenship from these too, the Progress Party would have agreed to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e1725	The last post from the Progress Party describes very well what I'm saying this debate makes it sound like, because it's referred to as if the majority are criminals and have the joke. That's not right. This is the wave on which the Progress Party rides, and on which, unfortunately, the majority also share – that this is a major and serious problem for Norway. No, it's a problem that someone can operate with multiple identities, but we can't solve that through citizenship. It has to be solved by biometric identification where you can tell if someone is operating with different identities. The government has a job to do. There you could certainly use a few more resources, rather than spending an enormous amount of resources on this, as you have chosen to do. With regard to the proportionality assessments that the government has now been required to assess, it is correct that they can solve some of these. They say it's going to be heavy, but it's not safe. Not even after 25-30 years, there is some security. How will it be possible for a person who has fled from another country to prove something that happened so many years ago, when there may have been more regime shifts in addition? It's impossible. There will be some doubts in some of these cases, without there being any reason for danger to Norway in any way. This doubt must be settled by the authorities in the process of granting citizenship. If the doubt is serious, it must have consequences then and not 25 years later. I think it is strange that the Council of State responsible for integration does not take on board the serious challenges this will be too many that are now beginning to mess up and that have done nothing wrong. They've integrated themselves, they're working, they're working well. But you have a political desire – from the Progress Party in particular – to mess around in these old things, to keep up with the fact that perhaps everyone who has come here, especially those who are refugees, is not really refugees. It's a wrong way to integrate, it's a bad way to integrate, and it doesn't create security in society. It might have been the bottom plan here if there was any sense in it, but it's not.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e1736	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e1752	On a proposal from the Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, the five-line sequence be replaced with a response from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up for the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e1761	In its work, the Committee has been active in this area since the Grand Prix elections of 2017, with four representatives. The Committee held an open hearing on the matter under consideration on 18 December. We would like to thank central organisations in the field of education and from the school owner side for their clear input. The exposure of teachers in school is strong, both at the position and at the opposition, although the instruments are very different. Proposals by the proposers promote proposals to strengthen the recruitment of teachers, as well as a reinforced commitment to tools to retain newly-trained teachers in the profession, including: through guidance. I very much regret that the Committee and the majority in the European Parliament have not been able to agree on any constructive measures to follow up on the involvement of teachers in school at this time. The Committee agrees that teachers are the school’s main resource and that access to qualified teachers is a key factor in ensuring quality in training. Professionally and educationally safe as well as competent teachers are the main single factor in a good school and in motivating newly educated teachers to remain in the profession. An important measure to prevent non-response and teaching shortages is therefore good guidance for newly-trained teachers. And that's something we have to do, that's to recruit more teachers for the profession and make sure they stay there. The Granavolden platform also contains moments of the Committee in today's setting, and points of the Storting have been adopted before. The challenge is when the government promotes policies that produce opposite results. We need to strengthen decentralised education, not major educational institutions that reduce educational provision. We need municipalities with financial capacity to employ and to provide working conditions to their employees in line with Storting's ambitions for teacher density, professional and pedagogical follow-up and an affordable working day – not a government that blindly introduces new demands for admission to and implementation of teacher training, and not a government that imposes norms and reporting requirements that bind resources and force municipalities to change from, for example, from. the successful Dovre model of the government's standardised A4 school. The government's ambitions for teaching careers and teachers' specialists exceed tripartite cooperation both nationally and locally. It prevents flexibility in a demanding everyday life, where you will have more specialised educators and assistants into school — not fewer. Leave the teachers to be teachers! Give guidance to those newly educated people who need guidance! The centre party has wanted a big message about recruiting teachers. Here the whole Stortinget agrees that there is a need for increased recruitment, a better understanding of the state of things and better management of the teachers in the time to come. This is what is needed to ensure the long-term sustainability of policy and recruitment. This should not lead to political prestige, but to broad agreement. When we all agree that the teachers are the most important single factor for the success of the students at school, it should not be controversial to give a big message about them. We are now receiving a big message about early efforts and inclusive communities, which will be presented to the Stortinget in autumn 2019. We assume that the teachers are an important part here. Increasing teaching shortages and poor applicants for primary school teacher training for 1–7. Steps give warning that the youngest children are being hit by the teacher’s lack. Detail management, time thieves and lack of confidence in classroom practices are also serious feedback from teacher prophecy. Here, the Centre Party believes that increasing the focus on just the time for professional work in common is the solution, rather than several demands from the government. The state councils have further set up a time thief selection. It is a good topic that will be put on the agenda, but such selection work will have to be followed up. National tests and standardisation are a challenge and a time thief that prevents teachers from following the law that requires them to adapt their training to each individual student. Leave the teachers to be teachers! Teacher density is important throughout basic training. The dropout in secondary school, especially among boys in the professional field, is far too high. The Young Data Survey shows that more and more young people, both boys girls, are struggling with school-related stress and undefinable mental and physical health disorders. Several qualified teachers with time to watch and follow-up to each individual youth are, in the view of the Centre Party, an important measure to ensure that all young people are provided with an equivalent and good training offer, irrespective of where they go to school or the conditions and needs they have. With that, I would like to address the proposals where the Central Party is co-sponsored.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e1782	The representative Marit Knutsdatter Strand has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e1787	The government has high ambitions for Norwegian school. It is well known that the teacher is the school’s main resource and that access to qualified teachers is a key factor in ensuring good quality training. I think we all agree on that. We're all probably also concerned about having enough qualified teachers in school, but here we may also end up agreeing – not least in terms of which measures can best ensure that we get enough qualified teachers, how much needs to be adopted and imposed on us at Stortinget, and whether we can have faith that the municipalities themselves can handle many of the measures that are desirable and necessary to ensure that we have enough good teachers at school. SSB statements are just forwards. This shows what the shortage of teachers will be in the future if the situation does not change — unless recruitment measures are implemented, unless teacher training is perceived to be attractive and more people are applying for the courses, if we do not ensure that those admitted to the training have the prerequisites to complete, if the training is not of good quality and causes others to carry out the studies. These estimates are therefore not a phase, but a tool that allows the deployment of measures that may affect developments over the next few years. Experience shows that teachers’ shortages can be prevented by appropriate measures. However, there is no doubt that government parties are taking this challenge very seriously. Government parties have already done a great deal to improve development and meet the challenges with a number of offensive approaches. In 2018, almost one in 10 applicants for higher education would become teachers — a very happy development. One of the reasons for this may be that government parties have introduced five-year master-level teacher training and strengthened admission requirements. This strengthens the competence of teachers, increases the status of teachers and makes them attractive to more people. Money and wages are also not insignificant, and master's training gives new teachers a higher starting salary – a difference of approx. NOK 70 000. The government has also introduced a scheme for the cancellation of student loans for teachers taking a job in school after completing five years of primary school education or teaching. The scheme should contribute to both recruitment, increased implementation and new-educated teachers taking up work at school. The government also wants more people who work at school and who do not have formal teacher training to qualify, and more teachers who have accepted higher-level teacher training can qualify to teach between 1 and 4. step, i.e. an opportunity to have a dual competence. A job has therefore been started to ensure that this is exactly what it is. However, the government wants more teachers to want to stay in school — even though teachers have low turnovers compared to other professionals in the municipalities. We have therefore set up new career paths, such as: the teacher-specialist scheme, experienced by teachers as an alternative and a good career path. It also shows that it is right for government parties to work out new career paths in school. The new guidance schemes for graduates will also help to make them want to be. In addition, more than 27 000 teachers have been offered further training. I notice that in the setting, all parties, except SV, have expressed that the teachers' experience of continuing training and the consequences it gives are producing good results. It seems strange, not least since the SV in a note indicates that they themselves have suggested giving everyone the legal right and duty to do so. But when they make $500 million at the same time. kr in the pot in its alternative budget, it may be easier to understand. We also agree that it is essential that we succeed in recruiting even more students for teacher training in the future, but we believe, unlike the opposition, that we are better served by recruitment measures that are not national recruitment campaigns. In recent years, therefore, funds have been allocated to various actions in cooperation with teacher training institutions. There is also funding for the recruitment of men and teachers with a migrant background. These measures together contribute to increasing the attractiveness of the teaching profession. They contribute to increasing recruitment and to contributing to a good professional community in schools, which will lead to more people choosing to stay and continue to work at school. The challenges are there, but I look optimistically at the opportunities we have to secure our students our good and qualified teachers in the future. This is something we have to succeed in.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e1808	It was a good summary of many of the government parties' policies from the representative Kristensen. If there's something we can agree on, it's that there'll be good job opportunities in the years to come, for those who want to learn. We know that there are many new ones to be hired, and that's a challenge that we have to solve, and that we're about to solve. As the rapporteur went on to say, I feel that there is a broad consensus in this Chamber about the goal, which is to get more teachers, but then we may disagree on how we get there. The government parties have been working for almost six years to raise the status of the teaching profession, and that is what we intend to continue in the coming period. In today's case, we are going to vote against the opposition's proposals, either because we disagree, such as. on competence requirements, or because we consider that the proposals are unnecessary, such as: to prescribe the guidance system, or because we believe that this needs to be handled by local and school owners, as negotiations on wages, or because the government is already making a solid effort in the field, such as: proposal No 12, from the Workers' Party and SV to ensure that the appropriations for continuing training are kept at a high level. As the representative Kristensen had in mind, it is only two months since the Socialist Left Party proposed a cut of 500 million. I remember in the election campaign in 2013 that the Workers' Party was campaigning that if they were only allowed to continue, they would double the number of those who received further and further training, from 1500 to 3000. Well, the fact is that we can do a pretty good job with this without their help. This year, over 7 000 teachers will receive this offer, and in the years that we have now run, almost 30 000 teachers have received continuing training. It is good to see that the Workers' Party and SV now come after, because this is an important element for more people to stay in the profession as a teacher. In all my meetings with teachers, there are some of the most important things that they themselves bring out, opportunities for further education. This helps to improve the quality of teaching, as confirmed by the fact that seven out of ten teachers change their teaching system after they have completed further training. Proposal No. For example, 4 to remove the 4 requirement in mathematics is something that we're opposed to. To recruit teachers, we also need to recruit students to complete the education. Clear skills requirements provide better teachers. This leads to an increase in the rate of implementation, because applicants have a higher grade average with them from high school and thus have better prerequisites for completion. This is something we have seen from previous years through research and experience from other study services. We want the best applicants for teacher training, and therefore we have made stricter admission requirements, which ensure that the status of the teaching profession increases and that in the long term will provide more good teachers. Other measures we have taken to combat teaching shortages include: increasing the status through the introduction of master training, which will provide higher pay, better guidance for newly-trained teachers to prevent any early retirement in the professional career, and we have established arrangements for the cancellation of student loans for teachers based on the type of education they have or where they wish to reside to work. We believe that the sum of the measures we have taken is important both to ensure recruitment and to ensure that more teachers stay in the classroom. Although we have done a lot and already see some results, such as: that there have been several qualified teachers in school and that 15 pst. several applied for primary school teacher training between 1 and 7. However, there is no time to lift the flag and relax. We see that access to qualified teachers will continue to be a challenge in some parts of the country in the coming years, and therefore this work will continue to be a high priority. I believe that much of what is going on will have a good effect, but we also need to give the measures time to work. As the representative Kristensen pointed out, the government parties have high ambitions for Norwegian school. We see that the arrows are starting to point in the right direction. We see that the students learn more that they are more present, that fewer falls away, and we also see that more will now become teachers. That is why we are going to have a rough course and the intensity of our efforts to improve and renew Norwegian school and to increase recruitment to the teaching profession.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e1827	I agree with those who say that there is no disagreement in this hall that the teacher is important. We in the Workers' Party have an unconditional love for the teachers, we simply can't get enough of them. The Labour Party believes that many enough teachers are a prerequisite for children to learn at school, to be safe at school and to thrive at school. More surprisingly, there may be so much disagreement in this room about how to meet the growing teaching shortage we see today. There I have to disagree with the representative Kristensen – the disagreement is not how we are going to meet the growing teaching shortage, but whether we are going to meet it. Our criticism of government is that it is passive to the increasing teaching shortage that you now see. Calculation after calculation now shows that the teaching shortage only increases – the last with the SSB's draft from November 2018, where the prediction towards 2040 shows that there is a more serious teaching shortage we are facing, and at the same time we see a government that continues to steer blindly against the teaching shortage that we see, or that today, when the study barometer of NOKUT arrived, where the teacher and lecturer students are the ones who are least satisfied with their practice, and are among the student groups that are not satisfied with their education. Even after all these calculations, even after all the different study barometers and feedback a sheep, we see government parties that continue to vote against all the proposals, proposals that could today have altered the evolution shown by the projections. I have to agree with the representative from the Center Party – I am a little disappointed and even a little surprised. In this Chamber, a total of 20 different proposals are being promoted today, large and small, but the parties in government are voting against absolutely everything. So they vote for nothing – zero. The government doesn't support anything, and at the same time, you see that the projections of the teacher's lack just get worse. There I also have to disagree with the representative Steffensen – we do not have time to wait, there is a grip that should be taken now. I understand that the government doesn't think the opposition is brilliant in absolutely everything we do, but I also have to say that I think at least some of our proposals are pretty good. There should be room for someone to be on, at least someone, but it's not. It is disappointing that one is voting against the proposals that might have been most effective in meeting the growing teaching shortage. The separation of teachers with retroactive force we could put an end to today. There won't be anything of that. The fourth requirement in math for new teacher students we could put an end to. There won't be anything of that. Unfortunately, it was sacrificed in the Christian People's Party's negotiations. These two proposals would have changed a lot. Unfortunately, they are voted on today. There is nothing that prevents the government from supporting most of the other proposals that are currently going up in the Storting, but nevertheless the government is clearly saying no to everything. That, I think, is a slightly special attitude to such an important topic. So the government thinks that everything it does is completely brilliant, but everything that the opposition proposes and promotes of ideas, no, it has to be put down. It's going to be wrong. I think it seems rather arrogant. It's especially arrogant to those teachers, the principals and the parents who every day see a different reality in school, and who have to live with the teaching shortage, know it on the body every single day. I have asked myself, would it be so dangerous if someone voted for some of the proposals, for example. proposal No 8, where we propose a level of competence for the unqualified teachers at school? One has seen an alarming increase in the proportion of unqualified teachers in school. Here we propose to seize. Would it have been so wrong to support this? Or proposal No. 9, on measures to get back the reserve force – that is, all the thousands of people we know are educated teachers, but who are not in school today – would it be so wrong to support this proposal? Or proposal No. 10, where we propose to launch more senior measures to get more people to do more work – would it be so wrong to support this? So the sum of the discussion we have today is that all of the 20 proposals that are being promoted are in contradiction – one says no to everything. I agree with those who have said that the commitment to this matter is great, perhaps especially outside this hall, so I don't think this debate is over either. I would also like to say to the government that if you think a little bit about now and change your mind, from the opposition, we will be quite blush – if we can get a majority for some of the proposals – and share some of the honor. But until that happens, we will continue until words become action. I would like to address the remaining proposals that the Labour Party is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e1848	The representative Torstein Tvedt Solberg has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e1853	The lack of qualified teachers is one of the greatest challenges facing us in Norwegian school in the coming years. SV believes it is urgent to take action to remedy the serious teaching shortage in the school and ensure that our students meet a qualified teacher in the classroom. The fact that thousands of students go to school every day and are not taught by a qualified teacher is unacceptable. The situation is serious in Norwegian school. The government has, with its broad eyes, contributed to a teacher’s crisis through the separation of teachers and the introduction of math requirements. In addition, the introduction of five-year master-level teacher training has led to a shift of pre-educated teachers. In addition, the national standard for increasing teacher density has increased the need for more teachers. SV has supported the introduction of master training, and we are particularly pleased that the teaching standard has finally been introduced. But it is irresponsible and highly incomprehensible that the government does not at the same time see the need for a national bet on more teachers. Very many municipalities report difficulties in attracting staff with approved competence for education. The situation is difficult all over the country, but particularly challenging is in the north, where the teaching shortage is greatest. In addition, in Northern Norway, the number of vacancies at several educational institutions is dramatically high. In the case of non-accredited teachers, the number is increasing — from 3.24 pst. in 2013 to 5.6 pst. in 2017. The red-green government managed to reverse a negative trend in a few years, which shows that this is a matter of will and priorities – a will and ability for priorities that are completely absent from today’s government. In practice, this means that for 1.5 million school hours it is taught by non-educated people. This is unfortunate for the quality of teaching and a great paradox when the government separates teachers with formal teacher training. Yeah, I'm actually one of these. I therefore believe that this government is guiding with open eyes against increased teaching shortages and a school of lower quality in teaching, contrary to what the government party has been saying here and before. It is urgent to take action to remedy the serious teaching shortage and ensure that the students meet a qualified teacher in the classroom. If we're going to get enough teachers, we're going to need a pair of measures, and we're going to have to start now. There are 20 concrete proposals in this case that would have helped in the serious situation. However, not one of these proposals available in the case can be accepted by the government parties. They would rather turn the discussion around and talk about SV holding back 500 million. kr to continuing education, because they do not want to talk about a 50 pst increase in teaching shortage in Norwegian school. as long as the Right has sat with the Minister. To propose a reduction in the use of competences is not to say that SV is opposed to empowerment. It's to make a difference that we have with the government in two fields. The government spends a lot of money on empowering teachers who don't want to do it, and who don't need it either. We have amazing results on the national samples, which they are so concerned about. In addition, we cannot help but believe that this government has separated experienced teachers. In this case, SV has tried to be constructive and move the policy. But neither do we get support for our compromise proposal, how high the average character and thus the breadth of competence can trump the four-dimensional requirement in mathematics. It is regrettable that we have a government that will not look at any of the 20 proposals to do anything about the most serious situation we have in Norwegian school. I will address the proposals SV is on its own.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e1872	The representative of Mona Fagerås has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e1877	The left shares SV's commitment to getting more good teachers at school. Good and safe teachers are the most important things for our children. We know how much difference a capable teacher can make in a child's life. For this reason, over many years, the Left has made systematic efforts to raise teachers. We've fought for master's education for teachers, which makes teachers better equipped to teach. It has also helped to increase the status of the teaching profession, and record students are now applying for it. In the fall, we saw a sharp increase in the number of students who started their teacher training. Both in elementary school teacher training 1–7. steps and 5 to 10. Steps have around 15 pst. more students this year than last year started the study. It shows that these are measures that actually work. I believe that the increased interest in the teacher's study also shows that the criticism of character requirements in mathematics does not hit completely. This is a requirement that was introduced to ensure implementation due to high non-response. It may be premature to conclude that making higher demands makes the study more attractive, but at least it shows that there are no fewer applicants for the teacher’s study after this requirement was introduced. On the contrary, we see that both applicants and inputs are increasing. For the Left, a long and systematic commitment to the further training of teachers has been one of the most important measures to ensure good teachers in school. We have prioritised that in all budgetary negotiations before we joined the government, and that's what we prioritise when we sit in government. Therefore, there are now record numbers of teachers who both get and use the offer of further education. For us, it has been important that this is also extended to several subjects, for which we have been impressed in the government statement. I have to say that I am a little surprised that the SV in the setting will not recognise the record high rate of further education, that it gives good results, and that this is something the teachers themselves experience. We have also developed a number of highly targeted measures for teacher recruitment that have worked well. At the initiative of the Left, the government introduced in 2017 a scheme for the cancellation of student loans for teachers taking a job in school. It is a very concrete measure that contributes effectively to making the teaching profession more attractive. We also promote the implementation of education in the normal time, the training of 1-7. Steps and taking a job in North Norway after finishing studies. And whoever gets full pay can get over 160,000 dollars of the student loan deleted. Guidance is important to ensure newly educated teachers the follow-up they need for the first time in school. We don't disagree with SV that this is important. What we disagree about is the way to make sure that all newly-trained teachers get the guidance they need. What we think we have to make sure is that there is room to see that the needs are different around School-Norway. In many schools I have visited, teachers receive good follow-up and good guidance. Teachers work closely together in teams and work together on both instruction and instruction, and they do not stand alone on the challenges they face. The close cooperation between teachers allows them to work together to find solutions and solve challenges. It also contributes to raising the quality of teaching and teaching. Better organisation of the work of teachers may be one of the most important things to ensure that the teaching profession is attractive. First of all, it requires clear school management. Since I joined the Education Committee, I have visited many schools, and what strikes me after all these visits is how important school management is for a school to succeed. So we don't just have to focus on recruiting good teachers, we also have to train and recruit more competent principals – competent principals that provide clear frameworks for teachers and that facilitate good teaching and for all students to be taken care of. Rectors who are able to recruit and retain good teachers may be the most important thing we should be looking at in the future, to ensure that we have good teachers in Norwegian school in the future, as well as all the measures that the government is already doing well. The opposition calls for action to increase teachers in school. I believe that the criticism is quite hollow all the time I can venture to claim that we have never had a government that has done more to ensure that we have many and competent teachers in Norwegian school. At the same time, there is no doubt that this effort must be continued with unimpaired strength if we are to ensure that all Norwegian children meet competent teachers in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e1895	There is no doubt that we need significantly more qualified teachers in the next few years, especially in primary school. Increased recruitment for teacher training is needed at both levels of education, especially between 1 and 7. steps. Various measures have been taken. Significantly earmarked funds have ensured more teachers in primary school, and the Christian People's Party is very happy that from the fall of 2018, in collaboration with the then government parties, we were introduced the teaching standard at school level, and from 2019 it is further escalated with an even greater teacher density for student groups. The aim of the teaching norm is to ensure that all students in Norway have equal access to teaching resources, regardless of whether they live in a big city or a village. There is no doubt that the introduction of the teaching norm itself is a significant measure for the recruitment of more teachers. If we see what teachers have said in recent years about the reason they end, it has often been that they have recognized that they face a demanding task, which is to be faced with too many students, and the bad conscience this has given many teachers in terms of weakened opportunities to follow up the individual student. Fewer students per teacher make the teaching task more affordable and create better conditions for conducting customized training. The guidance system for new entrants to primary school, for which we have had an impact with the government in the budget for 2019, is another important measure, for which funds have now been allocated, and which gives reason to believe has a positive influence on making the teaching profession more attractive and help to reduce professional decline. Practical learning and guidance from a trained colleague in guidance in the first year will ensure a better transition between education and work and help teachers succeed. I do not want to rule out the future regulatory framework as an idea that should be discussed in more detail, but now it is important that we first gain experience and get the opportunity to develop different models, so that one can get the guidance system to work as intended. A third measure is linked to the government’s allocation of funds to the North University and University of Tromsø to develop models to qualify people with incomplete teacher training for inclusion in school. In cooperation with the Education Directorate, these two universities have tried out models differently and will evaluate them according to their success in order to continue a scheme elsewhere in Norway that is struggling to obtain qualified teachers. It is therefore positive and important that systems of completion are now being tested for those with initial teacher training. Then we find an increase in teacher's density of 1,045 more annual works of instruction from the school year 2018/2019 compared to the previous school year. This is joyous numbers. Work to ensure qualified teachers throughout the country must continue and be strengthened. An instrument that has been much less discussed is the possibilities that municipalities themselves have for recruitment, namely the development of local wage policies aimed at teacher recruitment. Local wage agreements provide action rooms for municipalities to strengthen recruitment. Municipalities like Bodø have shown that this means of working is a good result. They've used it, for example. to recruit teachers for outing schools. In addition, I have to mention the effort for which some teacher training institutions have developed good models, namely decentralised education. It is a suitable and well-tested tool that not only strengthens recruitment but also recruits teachers to areas that often struggle to provide qualified people. The need for more teachers from 1 to 4. steps are well known and large. It is positive that the government will now enable more teachers who have approved teacher training to qualify for so-called dual competence. It is essential that we succeed in the future in recruiting more students for teacher training – a challenge that is most serious. There are no simple solutions that can give the answer, but we believe that the sum of several measures in both the short and longer term will improve recruitment further. Budgetary comparisons between the current four government parties in recent years have contributed funds to many large and diverse recruitment measures that must now be effective. They need to be followed up with new measures to ensure that all pupils are qualified teachers throughout the elementary school cycle.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e1916	The teacher is the most important to give students a good school, with mastering and learning. From the first day onwards, the government has greatly strengthened its efforts to provide a sufficient number of teachers and to provide teachers with the necessary professional and pedagogical skills. The proposers therefore speak against better knowledge when it is claimed that since 2013, the government has been heading for a critical teaching shortage. Let me just refer to the representative Mona Fagerås, who in his speech was very concerned about the situation in North Norway. Yes, there are challenges in the north, but the proportion of unqualified in North Norway has fallen in terms of annual work. First-choice applicants for primary education for stages 1 to 7 in North Norway have reached 75 pst. for the period 2013-2018. Much of what the representatives propose is good and important. Several of the proposed measures have already been planned or implemented. We are now beginning to see the results and expect a positive development in the years to come. The sector now needs to get calm and good conditions to do a real job. We should not launch new measures that steal resources from those who are in the process. The answer to the teaching deficiency is not to lower the requirements for quality. A demanding education attracts motivated students. These are also students who have better assumptions to implement. Characteristic and point requirements were introduced in teacher training in 2005. Now there are more qualified applicants for teacher training than before. There are several people who meet at the start of the study. The share of the education provided increased after the requirements had been met. To make demands is to show that we have clear expectations and great ambitions for future teachers. It is, after all, one of the most important professions in society. The government has put in place a mechanism for students who are taking teacher training to be able to cancel their student loans. The scheme is nationwide. The aim is for more people to apply for teacher training, for more people to complete and for more people to take on a job as a teacher. In order to receive full pay, primary school education for stages 1 to 7 must have been completed in normal time and then take up a job in school. In addition, there is a particularly favourable arrangement for North Norway. We work actively to recruit more people for the teaching profession, especially for steps 1-4. We've just given 7 million. to qualify unqualified teachers and to enable teachers to teach at a lower level. We support recruitment measures, and we support local work. In particular, we work with measures aimed at male applicants and applicants with a minority background. It can be tough to be a fresh teacher. We have to work to keep more of them in the profession. Together with kindergarten, school and higher education organisations, we have agreed on ‘Principles and obligations for the guidance of newly-trained teachers in kindergarten and school’. We also have to allocate 60 million. kr through a grant scheme for the guidance of graduates, which was put in place with the budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party. Before we go into discussions about regulation through law or regulation, we have to experience. That is why we will follow developments closely through our own evaluation. The system of teacher specialists is another way of recruiting and maintaining teachers. This is an exciting career path, both for young teachers and for those who have been in the profession for a while. Quality in school and quality in education are essential to make teacher training and the teaching profession attractive choices. I'm glad that universities and colleges work purposefully to recruit more people for teacher training and to develop the quality of education. It is good that the municipalities send their teachers on further training. I am also pleased with the good cooperation in partnerships between universities and colleges and schools. Trust, status and quality cannot be determined; it must be demonstrated by action and results. We have started good processes, and we see results. We promise to continue working so that all children will meet professionally strong and good teachers.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e1937	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e1942	Most people now see that lack of qualified teachers is becoming a threat to Norwegian school. The position, I hear, continues to comfort us that we see a certain rise in the number of applicants, but it belongs in the picture that for many of those who finish the education, in the first five years. We have to do what we can to keep as many as possible of those who are newly educated. When we know that six out of ten do not receive guidance, why can't the government on that basis support such a simple proposal as to prescribe the guidance system for newly-trained teachers?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e1947	Now we have an agreement with principles and obligations for the guidance of newly-trained and newly-employed teachers. I fully agree with the representative that good guidance is important. The budget agreement also put us at $60 million. kr to be used for this work. I can't see that a prescription fixation now would make a big difference. Now it's important that we try out the consensus we've got in place, and that we get the funds that were adopted in the budget. That system is to be evaluated, and then we might be able to discuss at a later stage whether or not a regulation is necessary. It is also a challenge that some end in the course of education, but that's exactly why it's important to ensure that you have a high level of students who start out, because it also improves their implementation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e1954	It was a good transition to what I was going to ask about now. We in the Workers' Party are now concerned that as many as one in three of those who start elementary school teacher education end up in the course of the study. At the study barometer launch today, we once again saw that primary school teachers have a lot to put on the quality of their education. Not enough – there has been a very clear feedback from the teacher students all along while Erna Solberg was in government. We need a power cap to recruit and keep teachers, and it's clearly a national responsibility. That is why I ask: why do the government parties vote down, for example. the simple proposal for a national recruitment campaign?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e1959	Now we have a majority government with an ambitious plan to strengthen school, to strengthen teacher education and to help all children meet a qualified teacher. As I said in my post, I believe there are many good suggestions from the opposition. Several of these proposals are well under way. Other proposals will be implemented at a later stage. The fact that you do not now vote in favour of the opposition's proposal does not mean that you are necessarily against all the proposals. The Labour Party should be well aware of this. I myself was a representative under eight years of red-green majority government, and it was not that the then government parties ran the shoes off to vote for the opposition's proposal. But as I said, here it is an important commitment and also proposals that of course could be evaluated at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e1964	Our cross-political goal of having enough qualified teachers in school has been in place for several years. Now, sadly, the objective is falling in front with increased competence requirements with retroactive effect. The reality is that when the municipalities of North Norway, among others, must be employed, are not qualified applicants. In the same area, places are empty for teacher training. Why does the government think it is better for students to receive training from employees without training as compared to teachers who took training before 2014? And in the case of North Norway, I feel that in the articles of the Council of State there is a waiting-and-see attitude based on today's actions. What will the government do specifically to address the teaching shortage in North Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e1971	Now I informed in my post that in the case of North Norway, the proportion of unqualified persons has fallen when we look at annual work, and I also showed that first-choice applicants for primary education levels 1-7 have increased by 75 pst. in Northern Norway from 2013 to 2018. This means that some of the measures taken by the government must obviously work. One of the most important measures is the provision of student loans, where there is a special favourable arrangement for North Norway, or for the action area, precisely because we see that there are significant challenges, and then it is important that we motivate more people to apply for teacher training and take jobs in the north. Let me also show that, in cooperation with the North University and the University of Tromsø, we are working on projects that are about qualifying unqualified teachers, so that they can build on their education and become fully qualified.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e1978	It's a fact that in some municipalities there are between 20 and 30 pst. unqualified. This is serious. At the same time, the number of places of study has decreased. When it is pointed out that the proportion of qualified applicants has increased, I believe we also need to ask questions about what kind of numbers we are raising. Conversion from loans to scholarships is demanding, and there is reason to ask how accurate it is. The Council of State also addresses these points in its letter to the Committee. I would like to turn this over to the professional sector, because in today's debate the government celebrates increased attendance in higher education, but forgets that at the same time there are more people who are getting 'not assessed' in the subject. Specific challenges are precisely in the implementation of the profession, with only 57 pst. by the boys succeed. What will the Council of State do to give us enough vocational teachers?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e1985	Firstly, it is important that even more young people opt for a profession. There we can all rejoice that it is going in the right direction, by the fact that there are more people who are now choosing a profession – the same number who choose study specialisation. There are also more people who complete and pass, and more people who get apprenticeship space. We also have our own commitment to vocational teachers and further training of vocational teachers. I think it is important that we show that this is an attractive way to go, and that the government is betting on professional teachers. There is no doubt that these too are challenges in the future. If we are to succeed in further raising the status of the professions, there must be an overall commitment to the various courses of study, equipment and the involvement of teachers in the professional field.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e1993	I have been to the Ministry of Knowledge and picked up figures from three very attractive municipalities in Lofoten. In West Wagøy, 9 out of 125 teachers are unskilled, in the Awake! 7 out of 120. Running early in the Moscows can't be easy, because in the small school there are 1 out of 5 teachers unskilled. These are the fixed ones. And of course, we have the temporary workers, which are within shorter or longer periods. After my simple calculations, this does not look so very optimistic, although I hear that the minister is somewhat more positive. Schools lack qualified teachers, and many teachers do not have the depth they need to meet their qualifications. For many of these municipalities, the choice is therefore between adding more unskilled teachers and sending more teachers to further education. Is that how it should be? And what is the Minister's advice to the municipalities that stand in this dilemma?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e2000	At least it's not SV's answer, which is to lower the ambitions. I believe it is a very poor alternative for students and for Norwegian schools to meet the challenges we have in recruiting qualified teachers, in reducing ambitions and cutting heavily in the offer of continuing education. I expect municipalities to have competence plans for their schools and their teachers, and that they will use the very favourable arrangements that the government has put on the table for further training of teachers. There's a room for action for school owners to attract teachers. Now, as I referred to in a previous answer, we also have, in cooperation with the Nordic University and the University of Tromsø, an ongoing project on the qualification of teachers who have some education, but are missing the last to qualify.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e2005	So the line change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e2012	Many measures have been taken by the government to strengthen teacher training. We want to give our children the best opportunities to succeed in school and provide a good basis for further education and working life. There is an important effort on the part of teachers to ensure that our children meet a school with good professional content and qualified teachers. NIFU’s annual study of teachers who have completed further education under the authority of the State — Quality Competence — shows that teachers have become better at teaching, students learn more, teachers themselves have become more involved in their job, and they are going to change the teaching as a result of the studies. This is very positive and shows that the focus on continuing training results. The initiative means a lot to the everyday lives of the teachers and the students' professional benefits, and helps to create a better school for everyone. In addition, the targeted commitment of citizens to school and education shows that students are more present at school, more complete, and more grades are emerging. So there are already many good results from the government's targeted school effort. It is therefore strange to note the opinion of the Centre on the blind introduction of measures. And SV's very negative perception of today's bet on teachers I think is special. The introduction of five-year master's training strengthens the competence of teachers, increases pay and contributes to the increased status of teacher training. In order to ensure that more teachers take a job at school after education, the government has put in place a scheme for the cancellation of student loans. In addition, North Norway has received additional funds to strengthen the recruitment of teachers and jobs at school, as the Council of State mentioned – 6.7 million. DKK in 2017 for recruitment and qualification work and the possibility to cancel NOK 55000 of the study loan. This measure for Northern Norway, together with the national initiative, will help to eliminate NOK 161000 of the student loan if primary school training for stages 1 to 7 is taken in normal time and jobs in Northern Norway during the first three years of education. This offers increased opportunities for strengthening professional skills in the north, and by a new civil majority, good school policy continues to strengthen knowledge and mastery.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e2023	The growing shortage of teachers in Norwegian school is a serious challenge that needs to be addressed. This morning I was present at the annual presentation of the Study Barometer, which is a survey that has been conducted since 2013. It covers almost all Norwegian universities and colleges and almost 1 800 study programmes in total. Unfortunately, the survey showed what we have registered for several years in a row: primary school teachers are clearly less satisfied than students in other education. The national average of the satisfaction of students in their study programme is 4.1. In primary education, there are 3,7 between 1 and 7 and 3,6 between 5 and 10. So the teacher students are almost without exception less satisfied than others, no matter what area they are asked about: education, feedback, guidance, learning environment, organisation, exams, participation, etc. The incomprehensible thing about this is that the government shows so little willingness to take control of a persistent problem that cannot be solved by the colleges alone. It is so beneficial that the State Council for Higher Education is careful to draw the institutions' position and abilities into doubt, as she is doing in today's Khrono. The council says we have to be a little bit more impatient. She wondered if the educational institutions were using the study barometer correctly, before concluding that the study barometer is a tool that allows schools to address the problems. Yes, it does, but that occasion has the right-wing government that the top responsible has had in all these years, but very little happens. An overall committee has asked the government to ensure sufficient qualified teachers through a reinforced recruitment policy and new measures that contribute to increased recruitment to teacher training and to the profession. It's a very clear signal. The quality of study in teacher training is obviously not perceived as good enough for those who experience it. We in the Labour Party are therefore surprised that the government does not prioritise concrete quality promotion measures higher, and why the government parties today vote down a lot of good proposals that could help to make teacher training more attractive and to get more people to succeed in completing the study.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e2032	The most important thing we can do as a society is invest in our children and young people and make sure they have a good upbringing and have the opportunity to learn in a good way. Then it is important that they experience safety in both play, physical activity and school learning. The most widely used expression in this debate I think is 'this we'll come back to at a later date'. I'm not going to say who said it – it's up to the hall to judge for itself. We need a government that invests in the future – in our children and young people. Then we need skilled and motivated teachers. They are our most important resource for children and young people to thrive and learn. Then we have to use tools that allow more people to choose to train as teachers and want to be in the profession out in Municipality-Norway and in the counties. What are the tools to achieve this? In many contexts, it is important that the school owners, i.e. the municipalities and the counties, have the resources needed to recruit more teachers. It is important that they remain in the labour market for many years – not as unmotivated workers, but as motivated workers. The need for teachers depends, of course, on both school structure, student development, new recruitment and the number of school stays in the years to come. One important prerequisite is, as I said, that municipalities get the necessary resources for this, and that there will be a national recruitment plan that enables municipalities to recruit. Teacher density is important for teachers to have enough time to follow up on each individual student. We in the committee were on a trip around in Trendelag for a few days. Teacher density in high school is alpha and omega. We see the need for more vocational teachers. NTNU reported that there will be a great need for it in the future – not just more students. If we need more students, at least we need more teachers. As regards proposal No: 11, where we ask the government to strengthen and develop the decentralised professional offer, the government parties are voting against it. It amazes me when, in the remarks ‘referring to the government’s considerable efforts’ — I repeat — ‘significant efforts to increase the implementation of secondary schools’. This right here is at least not equal to the grade 5 in the character book.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e2049	I feel a little like Carola: I feel like a little bit 'caught by a storm wind'. That's because almost 10 pst. by the teachers in my home municipality are not qualified. That is, of my son's ten-year primary education, it is about. one whole year in which he has a teacher who is not a teacher. Many of these even come from being students at a high school to being employed as teachers themselves. When I read the Nordahl Committee's report on the lack of follow-up of children with special needs and the Stoltenberg Committee's concern for the boys in school, I ask myself what can we really expect when responsible education authorities accept that people without a lot of pedagogics and learning skills in 1.5 million school hours teach the children we send to school? It's not just in my community that you're struggling. Other municipalities are unfortunately even worse off. Several qualified teachers are an important prerequisite for a high-quality school. Providing good pay and working conditions is one of several important tools for recruiting and maintaining skilled labour. School teachers have had a much lower wage trend than the rest of society. The government parties are very much talking about increasing the status of the teaching profession, but close their eyes so that pay matters. In order for more qualified teachers to want to stay in the job and many new ones to want to enter the teaching profession, I have no doubt that the salaries and pay conditions also need to be improved. The action space already in the contract work, which can be used to raise the level of pay of teachers, needs to be exploited. Why don't any of the other parties in this room even dare say that? The role of the national education authority in driving and initiator to achieve national education policy objectives shall be a support, not undermine the established tripartite system. However, contrary to SV, which believes that measures affecting the pay and working conditions of teachers must, of course, take place in cooperation with the social partners and in line with current collective agreements, the Minister of Knowledge will do away with it when he himself finds it opportunistic, among other things. by distributing 122 million. kr to teachers' specialists, without the parties' anchorages and possibly contrary to the collective agreement of the teachers. But finding solutions with the parties, no, it's obvious to go too far. Get it, whoever can.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e2060	If a profession is to be attractive, there has to be opportunities for filling skills, for further development and for choosing new paths in careers, such as: the teacher-specialist scheme provides. It is also important to be included in a college that discusses practices and explores new methods. However, there is nothing to suggest that a profession is becoming more attractive by reducing the demands of education or training by politicians in the possibility of continuing training. Then it's my wonder: what does the Swedish School Policy actually mean now? A little over a year ago, the government asked the government to promise that the government would not cut back on continuing training. But they obviously forgot to tell their own fiscal politicians this, because in the SV's alternative budget, they'll cut 500 million. kr in continuing education – almost 30 pst. of the budget. SV's representative Fagerås defended the cut both now and then, and on Dagsnytt eighteen she even said that everything the government has spent on continuing education in the last few years – yes, SEK 7.6 billion. NOK – could and should have been spent on something else. This is, to the extent that it is quite an honest turnaround and a down-priority. But now we are here today, two months later, with SV claiming, on the one hand, that the record investment in continuing education has not produced good results, has been discarded and should be cut, but, on the other hand, once again the government is asking the laws to continue the appropriations for continuing education at ‘at least the day’s level in future government budgets. They will even establish a right for all teachers to receive continuing training. The fact that SV refuses to pay for this right and will cut itself in today's level may stand somewhere in invisible ink. If school politicians in SV are concerned about cutting down on the skills of teachers or that fewer will be recruited to the teaching profession, they should make a settlement with their own party. Perhaps they will try, as the representative Fagerås himself called it, to show a disagreement with the government – without cutting back and continuing training for 2,000 teachers. For the Right, the most important thing is the learning and development of students, and the greatest differences in Norwegian schools are still between the A and B classes. That's why the teacher vow has been one of the most important initiatives for this government. Now there are record applicants for teacher training. The right hand and government shall hold the pressure up without reducing requirements and without reducing ambitions. So I hope that SV finds out what they really think about continuing education, because the focus on continuing education is not a distraction from the debate we have here about recruiting teachers – rather on the contrary: it is important to recruit teachers.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e2075	When listening to the debate, a few impressions may be that there are no specific challenges on the part of the government parties related to the number of teachers and teacher training in Norway today. But it does. It is clear that the separation of general teachers gave an unfortunate signal. It has probably pushed some teachers out of school and also given a signal to some of the teachers, good teachers, who haven't been very wise. The fourth requirement in mathematics excludes some good, motivated candidates from teacher training, and it is still such that some places of study are empty. The teaching norm leads to tougher competition for the learning skills. It does not yet give equal access to teachers throughout the country. It leads to tougher competition, and it draws resources from, for example: Districts of North Norway. I believe that after such a debate we have to ask ourselves the question: do we have a common opinion that there is a problem that there are many non-qualified teachers who teach in today's school – is there a problem or isn't it? Is it a problem that in every five Norse municipalities every five teachers are not qualified, have no education at all, formally speaking? In some municipalities, there are more than every four teachers. At least you have to admit that this is a problem. Then we can discuss whether it's gotten better or worse, and who did what a few years ago, but at least I expect the hall to have a common recognition of that problem. I feel that the government has a waiting-and-see attitude and hope that this will go well. It can be overly exciting. I think it's problematic that we have a government that underestimates the problems to some extent, because it seems that they find it more difficult that people have 3 in math than that there is a large proportion of non-qualified teachers teaching in today's school. It's hard, it's really hard, to understand. I've also seen a little bit on the Study Barometer, and I must finally mention that the Study Barometer shows that the places of study that have the most satisfied students are places like the colleges in India, in the West, in Volda and in Nesna. In the case of other parts of primary school teacher training, it is Levanger and Bodø. Nord universitet has the most satisfied teachers. It should not be believed – even when you see how the government’s representatives travel around and talk down North University and point to how big a problem there is. But they have students who are very happy – perhaps a little in contrast to some of the largest schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e2092	We've got serious figures about the teaching shortage in school. In November, the SSB issued projections against 2040 showing that the situation is more serious than previously assumed. We're facing a shortage of teachers. There are still too few applicants for primary school teacher training. Too many people fall off in teacher training, because many students choose not to start in the profession, and too many quit in the teaching profession after a few years. The consequence is that too many students don't meet a qualified teacher in the classroom. The use of unskilled workers has increased by 40 pst. under this Government. In 2017, there were 20 p.m. of the municipalities of North Norway, – one of five municipalities – more than 20 pst. unskilled teachers in the classroom. It's serious if we're going to have an inclusive common school where all children are given the opportunity to learn, to thrive and to succeed. We need enough teachers. This is a marked lack of teachers that the government has directed against with open eyes. We honestly believe that the government has not done what it could and should have done. One debate has been on empowerment for teachers. The working party will not separate experienced teachers; we will have full pressure on empowerment. How do you ensure that? Well, this is the responsibility of the municipalities, and then the municipalities have to have a plan to increase the competence of teachers, and what skills teachers need. When the Workers' Party asked Minister of Knowledge Jan Tore Sanner how many municipalities had a competence plan, the answer was that he did not have an overview. He did not have a plan to get such an overview. The Minister of Knowledge realized that this might have come out a little wrong, and later he went out and said that he wanted competence plans in all municipalities. But he wouldn't do anything active to make it happen. On the contrary, the Minister of Knowledge called on the Federation of Education, Teachers and Parents to participate and to ensure that municipalities made a plan of competence. He placed responsibility, not with the rapporteurs, the minister of knowledge or the government, but with teachers and parents. I became a little speechless. If I had been Siv Jensen when she was in opposition, I might have been deeply shocked by this disclaimer of responsibility in the face of teaching shortages and lack of skill plans. Not having an overview, not knowing whether the municipalities are following up the biggest investment in continuing education and training that Stortinget has unanimously put behind, is a disclaimer of liability. Today, they had the opportunity to address it and many other challenges in school, but the government is not only passive in the face of the shortage of teachers, it is against all 20 proposals that the opposition has made in this room. Therefore, I will warn against continuing a rough course. You need to get the steam up and adjust the course.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e2104	As a long-standing trustee in the Norwegian Graphic Association, the most important thing we did was to recruit new trade union workers, of course pay and working conditions. It was an important prerequisite for people to take that education, and to be able to recruit them. Of course, it was also about how the districts could get well-qualified workers in relation to the big cities and the big newspapers, which were perhaps payroll leaders. A decentralised training offer is also essential for recruiting skilled skilled workers and skilled teachers in all the municipalities of the country. Why do we have a decentralised nursing education? Well, we need nurses in small municipalities, along the coast, in the mountains and inland. If we are to recruit skilled teachers, perhaps we should also, not least in terms of high school and vocational teachers, have a decentralised offer for vocational teachers adapted to local business. What type of education do we need to recruit students and teachers and provide the labour market with well-qualified workers? When we were at NTNU last week, we were in the real science building. There we saw how the teachers followed up the students. They had ten minutes of education, and then they had a pretty long break to check if the students had got the education. Why did they do that? First of all, it was satisfactory for the teacher that the students had actually understood what the teacher had taught. At the same time, it was satisfactory for the students that they had brought what the teacher had taught. But what did it take? Well, it took more resources, more teachers, because it was more demanding, but the result was far better than it had been before. Continuing training of teachers is important, as is the case in other fields of activity. I went out as a printing press – I have to think about it – in 1980, and I don't think I could go back to it, because that profession is soon no longer in existence. Continuing training is not just for nurses, doctors, bus drivers or industrial workers; it is just as much for teachers, so that they get professionally filled up in order to make a good effort at school. That's why we need a national marriage that allows teachers to be valued by being able to fill up professionally, get enough resources, get enough time for each student, so that students get a good school day.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e2117	We have to admit that the teaching shortage is a problem, said the representative Arnstad, and claimed that the difference between the opposition parties and the government parties was that one disagreed on whether there was a potential challenge with teaching shortages. I believe this is a completely wrong description of reality. Had a government that did not take this challenge seriously really made sure to give up up up to NOK 160 000 in student loans to people applying for the profession? Or had a government that didn't take this seriously, spent over 1.6 billion. kr on continuing education, or, for that matter, reformed and developed teacher training so that it has become more attractive and has more applicants than ever? Of course not. This is the first government that really takes the big challenge we have in making the teaching profession attractive, seriously. If there were any of the measures proposed that are either not already implemented in some way, or were more effective than those we already have, I would certainly say, for my part, that I would have considered voting for such an action. We have a government that is forward-looking in meeting this major challenge, which has implemented and is in the process of implementing a number of measures to help make the teaching profession more attractive. I am absolutely sure that will have a good effect, and that we will ensure that Norwegian students will also meet skilled and competent teachers in the future. The most important thing, both to keep the teachers we have, and to make sure that they are able to do their job, is to ensure good further education. There have never been as many teachers who are in further education as today. It is also paradoxically one of the reasons why we have many unskilled teachers who teach in classrooms – it is because there are so many teachers who are out taking study credits, who are out and beyond. But in the long term, of course, this will help us to have even more competent teachers in all Norwegian classrooms throughout the country. The second most important thing is to make the very best students apply for teacher training. We have seen that the party that has raised this issue, SV, is the one that has been most critical to make clear demands for teacher students, whether in terms of skills requirements in math, or in terms of extending teacher training to master degree education. I am absolutely convinced that those measures are absolutely essential to get the best students from high school to apply for teacher training, and that is the key to getting good teachers in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e2128	The representative of Mona Fagerås has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e2133	It seems that neither the minister nor the representative Guri Melby heard what I said during my speech, and that they have not heard about SV's compromise proposal when they deny that SV is concerned with competence. We have submitted a professionally sound proposal from the University and Higher Education Council which, according to the education students, would give us between 500 and 600 more teacher students in 2018. The compromise is that in order to get into teacher training, you can have 4 on average, and it's going to trump the four-dimensional requirement in math. Is not 4 on average quite good width competence, and wouldn't it be a sensible suggestion to argue that we are both in favour of competence and that there should be demands?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e2138	As several of us from the government parties have said earlier here today, we take the challenge of getting enough and qualified teachers to school in the greatest seriousness. Let's do that. That's absolutely true, actually -- even though someone here in the hall today is expressing that they either haven't heard us say that or don't believe us. Listening to the opposition's comments on this matter reminds us of when the Workers' Party's Nils Kristen Sandtrøen recently said, in a debate in Dagsnytt eighteen, towards the State Council of Sanner, that Norway has a common social development. That's a little bit of a claim, I have to say, a statement the very few will recognize in – even those who represent the Workers' Party. The opposition here today is trying in the same way to draw a picture of the situation in the school and of the measures taken by the government, which do not at all match reality. These are challenges, yes, but: The government is blind to teaching shortages, a teacher crisis, it's said. The government has a lack of willingness to prioritize to assure us qualified teachers, it's said. Really? Some people must have carefully closed their eyes and ears to the school policy that the government has pursued in the last five years. We have worked hard to secure enough qualified teachers. We haven't taken a wait-and-see attitude. I mentioned some of the things that have been done, earlier today, and if you hadn't got what happened in the last five years, you had the opportunity to get a little update. It may seem that several people did not listen to it, but I suggest that you take a look at the settings that have been submitted. I also fully agree with the Council of State Sanner that lowering competence requirements and lowering quality is not the way to go – although there seem to be many in the opposition solution, not least SVs. We're going to have enough teachers and well-qualified teachers, so here's really thanks, both of them in their place. Several have pointed out that the government parties will not support any of the many proposals put forward here today – 20 proposals. We've also heard this before. Many proposals are promoted and proposals are often repeated every year. One would almost think that it was done to be able to stand on this pulpit and be indignant that the government parties do not support the large number. But, as state councillor Sanner has been in, a lot is going on, and a lot has already been notified. It is not surprising that claims are made that not supporting the opposition's proposals means that we do not bet in different areas. In my first year and a half at Stortinget, I have just learned that the opposition on a case-by-case basis is trying to appear to be effective and innovative by just promoting proposals on which the government has already taken action, or has said that they should initiate action. Unnecessary, but in all respects – everyone has the right to promote the proposals they want. Fortunately, the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party govern school policy in Norway. We're gonna be happy for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e2153	It has been interesting to try to follow the debate today. There is no doubt that government parties are trying to shift attention away from their own paralysis and inaction to point to other parties rather than to respond to the challenges they are facing. There might be an interesting discussion about whether the government is heading towards the increasing teaching shortage with open or closed eyes. That government is not missing is that it does not have the necessary measures to reverse this trend. I would also like to express my direct disagreement with the Council of State, which claims that the sector does not want action, that the sector will have peace. We have had an open consultation on this proposal from the SV, and it was clear from all those who made the consultation from the sector that one did not want peace and no proposals. No, there was a clear demand for action, for the government to take action, and that it is not at all urgent – that it is not that we have good time and can only continue with the same course. The reasons for this sector were precisely the alarming developments you have seen. So who the Council of State is talking to, I'm a little uncertain about. What I think is strange when you're going to look at and sum up this debate, is that you're so passive when you see that the teacher's lack increases, and that one boasts of himself when every new calculation comes, that means that one also increases the estimates for the teacher's lack. The representative Kristensen is trying to get a little indignant about our description. It's not just our description -- it's the SSB's number, the central statistical agency's projections. If referring to the SSB's number is black-painting in this room, yeah, then we get a strange discussion. I think it's strange that the government chooses with background in these numbers and evolution to be satisfied with its own actions, and that one vote against all our 20 proposals when one now sees that the teaching shortage just increases. It is quite obvious, I think, that the measures you have alone now, do not work. I would, as I said in my main post as well, wish that one would actually vote for some of the 20 proposals that are being promoted today. It would have meant that one today could take action in the sector, that one wanted a different development and not least had something done with the teaching shortage. Unfortunately, we just have to note that the government parties are voting against both large and small and want to continue with a tough course that the sector does not want.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e2166	The Labour Party and the rest of the opposition want a more offensive policy in response to the teaching shortage. It's hardly surprising, and we also think it's absolutely necessary to deal with the evolution we're seeing, and the numbers we're being presented to. I have to say that the response of the government parties is primarily suitable for a study of self-righteousness. They also seem rather uncertain as to whether or not to characterise the opposition’s proposals as ‘unnecessary’ and ‘untimely’ or as to whether they really are. If it is true, as we have heard several times in this Chamber, that many of these measures are actually for the government parties, it should not be a problem to vote for either. But it is obvious that it obliges the government much more to a more offensive policy. I would like to comment on one of the debates that have been going on for a long time and that have also been up here in the Chamber. When the Right says you can't lower the requirements, e.g. to get into teacher training, I agree with that. This debate shows what often gets a little daunting in Norwegian debate, when the Right repeatedly resorts to that kind of simplified rhetoric. First of all, when the Workers' Party wants to remove the four-time requirement for learning, it is because it excludes many good applicants from becoming teachers. Second, we do it because it's not the best requirement you can make for future teacher students. We often talk in school policy and education policy about what we do being knowledge-based. I should like the government parties to listen to research as well. A survey from the NHH published in the autumn shows that, in terms of performance at the teacher’s study — it is stated correctly — the minimum requirement for grade 4 in mathematics is the one that produces the weakest effect. They say they find that a minimum requirement for grade 4 in Norwegian, a minimum of 40 school credits and a requirement for passing a degree in mathematics would contribute most to the performance of the teacher's study. The impact of this research and its conclusions include: were drawn by the Education Students, or by the UHR Teacher Training, i.e. the teacher training of the University and Higher Education Council. Therefore, they propose to replace today’s four-year requirement with a better and more accurate one. That is what we have proposed in the Chamber today. So the debate is not about whether to lower the requirements or not. The debate is about the types of requirements that guarantee us the best teachers for the future. Then it is a pity that the government and government parties choose to close their eyes, bury their heads in the sand and refuse to realize that anything other than what they themselves have proposed can work. I think the policy is good at looking at this kind of new-eye action when we get experience from the sector, research and input from the organisations in the sector that other requirements, other actions, can work better. It's a shame the government doesn't want to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e2179	Even though I've been at school for a few years, many years ago, I'd say a little bit like a layman, because I'm not in the right committee. I have followed the debate down from the office, and I have to say I find it sad that the government parties do not agree with at least some of these 20 proposals. When much of the discussion today has been about recruiting to school, about the teaching profession, I don't need to refer to a lot of investigations. Neither can I, because I am not in that position that I can mention a lot of professional investigations. But there are some things I think are quite obvious in this case. If one is among those in the reserve force outside the school today – one may have a different job, is tired or seems in some way not quite able to cope with the pressure that has been in the school – what is it that can lure you back in again? I would think it might have something to do with the number of students in the class. We've been through that many times in debates here in the hall. There is a Christian People's Party. They haven't gone far enough after SV's vision, but they've got some. That means a lot. What also means a lot -- it's been mentioned so many times, and it's quite obvious and logical -- is, of course, the criteria for entering a teacher's school. It's obvious that it's not all there is to be able to get a four in math. I think it's so obvious, and it's not in accordance with the general opinion out there among people that a foursome in math should be a requirement to teach anything other than math. People don't get it. There are many of us who don't understand that requirement. That requirement, or the average character, that we've proposed in the opposition, would give a much more fair arrangement. I think it is very nice that the Right does not consider this with trust reform in school. The right is a lot that has taken account of and height of individual freedom throughout all years. They've used it in their speech points. Trust in the teacher is an individual trust in each teacher. I have to say that if I were to apply to school today, I would think that I wouldn't want to go into school to turn papers, to report and be measured all the time. I would have trusted that my method was eel-ridden. And I wanted to have a good and professionally strong principal who had made sure that as a teacher I had a say in my class, and that I carried out what I was going to do according to plans. These three most important criteria seem to me to have been met, and that would have meant that at least I would have entered the teaching profession again if I had been 20 years younger.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e2194	The representative Turid Kristensen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e2199	Just cards. I wanted to comment on Tvedt Solberg's last post. No, we are not frustrated by the reference to the SSB’s figures – they are facts. But it's going to be wrong to try to produce government policy as a matter of course, or to do nothing to meet the challenges we see, because we do. Then I wanted to comment on what Henriksen spoke about, knowledge-based school policy. There's something in the right that we're putting very high. I have just read about the professor who has commented on the research that has been done, and it is not that mathematics does not have a meaning – good grades do have an impact on the conduct of the studies – but, as has been said here today, there has been a significant decrease in the number of applicants, and it is true that the same research report has not turned down. I think we can enjoy that, and these are the things I wish the opposition could recognize, that there is actually a lot going straight to Norwegian school.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e2206	The representative Torstein Tvedt Solberg has also had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e2212	To the discussion about the SSB numbers: the reason we're critical and we're producing these numbers is that these new calculations, completely fresh estimates from the SSB from November, show that developments are going wrong. Then it may not be so strange that the opposition is impatient and promotes proposals that will do something to reverse precisely this development. The surprising thing here is that the government is satisfied with the fact that development is going wrong, is content with its own actions and will not take part in any of the proposals made by the opposition. I still think it's strange, and quite surprising, that one can't vote for any of the 20 proposals that come from the opposition. There is a wide range of proposals that could have been involved and solved the challenge ahead of us with the increasing teaching shortage. But we just have to find out that the government is clearly saying no. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e2217	At least the last representative of Tvedt Solberg says is not right. It's not like the government says "bastant" no. Rather, on the contrary, I took time in my post to say that many of the proposals promoted by the opposition are good, and then one must not present it as if the government were clearly saying no. But it is now time for us in the government to have the opportunity to both investigate and evaluate different proposals, and we are taking a number of measures to ensure that more people choose the teaching profession, and there are several who do. We use a lot of resources to improve teacher training and not least to invest in continuing education and training. And then we also use the SSB's numbers, but you have to use them with some care. Well, it's true that the inscribed teaching shortage from 2018 is higher than that of 2015, but it's lower than that of 2012 so that if you look at these figures, it's not that fasitant, but it's a prognosis. We are taking a number of measures to make learning more attractive. It is about content and qualifications, but it is also about the teaching norm, which the Education Association itself drew out as important in order to increase the recruitment of the teaching profession. So the combined effort we're now making at school, makes more children happy to meet a qualified teacher in the classroom. We will continue to invest in the teacher as one of the most important occupations in Norway and look forward to further cooperation with the opposition on new actions that can be undertaken, so that even more people choose the teaching profession. In fact, choosing to become a teacher has a reasonably safe job to do, and not least many exciting opportunities to develop in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e2226	There is no doubt that policy is about priorities. You can have almost constant pricing purposes and suggestions then, but you actually have to prioritize, because the funds don't necessarily extend to. Then it's worth asking questions about whether we can use the government's resources when we set goals, because the Storting has a huge number of goals, and we have a huge amount of legislation that teachers and schools have to deal with every day. It guarantees students both rights and opportunities, but it also assumes that there are resources and opportunities to follow up the requirements that are being imposed. We believe that there is reason to ask questions about whether all the resource use we have under today's government meets the need – especially in municipalities in Northern Norway. We know that decentralised education contributes to recruitment locally, both by students and then after the students have completed the study. It also contributes to increased well-being, as can be seen in the Study Barometer, in smaller circumstances, and it contributes to local practice recruitment, because it is just a cost of sending students and students around the country to have practice. It's cost-intensive, and the follow-up is going to be. It's getting worse. On the other hand, if you have a place in your education system, it's also easier to follow up on your education. This is a very concrete challenge that the North University has addressed. They are ordered – from the government – because they have a demanding educational campus structure. In this way, the government does not take into account what we report here and today, that there is a need for decentralised education, that there is a need for increased recruitment of teachers, especially in North Norway. When the Council points to the status associated with the teaching profession, I believe that today's government is very good at talking about status, but unfortunately we get measures that weaken status. Thousands of teachers have signed a call for them to lose status precisely because they lose the skills they have had working in the profession for decades after decades. When competence requirements become retroactive, yes, it does not help to increase professional pride. We have had an interesting debate today, and we look forward to seeing new policies from the government for recruiting teachers in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e2235	There is no need for any new policies, but there may be a need for reinforced policies. I agree with the issue raised by the representative and the case-rapporteur Knutsdatter Strand regarding recruitment in North Norway. That's one of the reasons we have special measures just linked up to North Norway. It is about writing off student loans, as a particularly favourable measure, but also working with the North University and the University of Tromsø to give teachers who have some education but who need to build on a little extra, opportunity to become a qualified teacher. This is not a problem that we overlook – on the contrary. It's a problem we're dealing with. But I fundamentally disagree with Knutsdatter Strand that we separate teachers and lower the status by demanding that teachers who teach mathematics, Norwegian and English should be immersed in the subject. It should almost just be lacking that a teacher who teaches mathematics should not have depression in math. This year, when we give 7,200 teachers the opportunity to continue their education in these subjects, but also in initial and other key subjects, we know from the teachers, and they themselves say that they are changing their teaching and becoming better teachers. The fact that we spend so heavily on both teacher training and continuing training is important measures to ensure a high status for teachers and make the profession even more attractive to new students.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e2242	The representative, Martin Henriksen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e2247	I interpret the minister of knowledge more positively than his party traps in the hall. He states that we disagree on some measures. On other measures he says that there are many proposals the opposition comes with, which is good, and he adds that the government has the opportunity to investigate and evaluate various proposals. We interpret that positively. I believe that the government parties could so far have said here in the Chamber or written in the ballot that some of these measures could be considered. But I take the Minister of Knowledge to the floor and hope that he will follow up his own words and agree to consider the measures. In fact, some of the proposals ask for an overview or evaluation and analysis of different proposals. Now I hope that the Minister of Knowledge can contribute to, for example. to assess the standard of teacher’s density in higher education, a national overview of the competences of practical teachers, to consider how to implement a school unqualified level of competence or to look at the impact of 4 requirements in maths and better and more accurate schemes, which have also been requested by the sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e2252	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e2270	First let me congratulate the Council of State on the post and welcome her to Stortinget. Norway is today one of the world’s leading ports. Every day many thousands of Norwegians go to work in one of the marine industries of oil and gas, maritime business or seafood. We have the world's second longest coastline, and we have sea area that is more than five times larger than our own land area. 80 pst. of this sea area is located north of the Arctic Circle. Sea-related industries generate large revenues for Norway. In 2016, the total value creation was 494 billion. kr. We have ambitions to remain a leading port. Both this and the previous government have ambitions for a five-fold increase in export income from maritime valuation by 2050. Central to succeeding in this is our northern regions. There's a lot going on in the northern regions. In the light of new technologies and climate change, new resources are now being made available in the north, which was not previously available. Increasingly northerly, there are several cruise ships sailing in the waters, there are several tourists coming to visit the sea and land, and the petroleum industry is moving further north. We're happy about the growth, and we're going to keep working for the benefit of those who live in the north. Where there is human activity, accidents occur. It's not a question of if, it's a question of when. Let me remind you of two examples: At midnight on June 19, 1989, the cruise ship «Maxim Gorkiy» entered the driveway in an unexpected place on the way between Iceland and Magdalenefjord on Svalbard. The ship had 954 people on board. Fortunately, the KV “Senja” was only four hours away when the emergency signal was sent out. KV ‘Senja’ is a Norwegian coastguard vessel in the North Cape class, with ice capacity and designed for high endurance in weather-hard areas over a long period of time. When KV “Senja” set a course against the Hagarist, the crew had no information about what kind of ship the distress signal was about, that there was ice in the area, what the damage was in, how many people were in distress, or whether there was someone who was injured or killed. Between 300 and 400 people had left the ship when KV “Senja” arrived after four hours and were either in lifeboats or on ice. The ‘Senja’ KV was subsequently given important assistance from helicopters, but they had to break safety rules in the helicopter operations in order to get the cruise passengers on board. KV “Senja” took a total of 768 persons on board during a 20-hour rescue operation. Fortunately, no one died, and apart from fatigue and stress reactions, there were no major injuries among passengers or crew from the cruise ship. Parts of the crew remained on board and could take the ship to port for their own machinery after receiving assistance with temporary repairs. The accident with the cruise ship «Maxim Gorkiy» was as positive as possible thanks to the solid effort of well trained rescue teams, good weather conditions, calm and discipline among crew and passengers and a good portion of fun. A more recent example is the fishing vessel ‘Northguider’ as a base aid on 28 December last year under shrimp trawling in the Strait of Continent. In 24 low degrees, dark and strong winds, the crew waited together in the wheelhouse for the message that the rescue crews were on their way. Under dramatic conditions of sea passage, snow showers, strong culverts and 24 degrees below sea level, all 14 on board were rescued without major damage. It took two weeks, however, before the 50-metre-long Hagarist was empty for the 322 cubic meters of diesel they had on board when they went on the ground. These are two examples of things that have already happened, and it will happen again. Through the legally binding agreement on search and rescue in the Arctic Council, which we signed in 2011, we have taken on greater obligations than under other international regulations. The main purpose of that agreement is to strengthen the coordination of preparedness and rescue operations in the Arctic. But it is also referred to in Article 3: «Each Party shall promote the establishment, operation and maintenance of appropriate and effective search and rescue capability within its area as set strength in paragraph 2 of the Annex to this Agreement.» In addition, the agreement does not set any standard for which capacity we have committed ourselves to. The crucial question therefore becomes: what are the concepts promoting the establishment, execution and maintenance of an adequate and effective rescue service in the Arctic? In view of Norway’s ambitions for future activity and the desire for value creation in the northern regions, this will be the central issue, regardless of this agreement. That's why it's also the core question I want to discuss here today. It is widely agreed that prevention is the most important thing to do — prevention. Much has been done in recent years to increase maritime safety in the north. The most important thing is the prevention of accidents. For example, we have put in place the Polar Code, which entered into force on 1 January 2017, which will help ensure that both Norwegian and foreign vessels and equipment are suitable for operations in polar waters, and that the crew has the necessary skills. In addition, traffic monitoring and traffic control through Norwegian waters have been significantly enhanced. A programme for the establishment of high latitude broadband telecommunications using satellites has also been adopted following the decision of the Stortinget. Nevertheless, we must recognise that the North has clear additional challenges for preparedness for acute pollution and rescue operations at sea, compared to other areas. Enormous geographical distances combined with a small population and very limited infrastructure mean that events and actions with a certain extent today will be priced resources from outside. In addition, there are also operational challenges specific to the Arctic. Low temperatures affect all stages of an operation when saving the environment and values, but also icing, fog, low visibility and polar low pressure will make conditions demanding for both personnel and equipment. It's just to listen to those who were involved in the operation to rock «Northguides» and the crew of the Christmas Room last year. SARINOR is a project between several public and private actors in maritime activities and preparedness. The first part focused on search and rescue services. The second part, SARINOR2, focused on preparedness for acute contamination and rescue operations, as a natural continuation. The project has identified and documented significant challenges and gaps between the desired situation and the actual current situation. The reports also promote a wide range of proposals to change that situation. The main finding in SARINOR1 is that the level of current preparedness in the northern regions does not reflect the level of activity of the current or future and is below the ambitions of the authorities. The probability of survival following a major accident in remote polar strata areas can be sorted between two main findings: the ability to survive at the site of injury and the availability of rescue preparedness. The ability to survive at the site of injury after evacuation will be crucial, as there are a number of factors that reduce survival, including perhaps the most important, hypothermia. At the same time, a situation where it may take a long time, up to several days, before a rescue is completed. Outside the range of rescue helicopters, the probability of surviving a major marine accident is significantly less than that of coastal strokes. Long distances, restricted infrastructure and demanding climatic conditions lead to long mobilization times and represent a significant risk to those who have their work or travel in these areas. The main objective of SARINOR2 has been to monitor current preparedness for acute contamination and rescue operations. Let me remind you that in Arctic regions there are specific environmental challenges and vulnerable environments. Identifying the needs and defining future preparedness solutions for the north was also central to the project. At the centre was also the identification of the measures addressing weaknesses as far as possible and promoting coordination and cooperation between users of the northern regions. SARINOR2 concludes with the need for four action packages and a total of 19 measures to remedy the situation. The SARINOR projects have produced valuable and useful knowledge that can potentially save many lives and great values in the north. The project has been funded by private funds and heavy contributions from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Unfortunately, there has been relatively poor response from other departments responsible for preparedness and rescue or with interests in the areas. The SARINOR project has therefore been repeatedly invited, in contact with mainstream policy-makers, to give priority to the main actions. They have also done so, and they have delivered their own action plan, dated 12 January 2018, with which the government is also familiar. We probably agree that there are specific challenges in preventing and providing adequate preparedness for accidents and incidents in the northern regions. I think we also agree that it is not good enough today, neither for the situation today nor for the future, given the expected growth. Therefore, my questions become to the Council of State: Does the Council of State agree that the preparedness we have today is not good enough, neither to meet today's needs nor to meet the needs of the expected increase in activity? Which of the measures in the SARINOR reports may not be followed by the government? What other measures does the government intend to take to ensure that we have sufficient and adequate preparedness in the north? So far, it seems that only the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has been involved in improving the situation. Despite the fact that we have a polar range and several departments that have significant interests in improving the situation, low-hanging fruits and simple measures have been followed up. How, then, will the Council of State with the new post ensure that the government is working more systematically and, in a coordinated manner, is grateful for the improvement of the situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e2330	First of all, I would like to thank Mr Sivertsen for his congratulations. I really appreciate that. There is an important development in the north, as the government follows closely. Ice conditions are changing and new areas become more accessible. Increased activity leads to increased expectations for rescue and preparedness. This applies to both operational rescue operators and authorities. The government will strengthen security and preparedness in the north. The size has, through the treatment of the swallowing message, led to a continuous assessment of the preparedness of Svalbard in the light of the activity of the archipelago and changes in the risk picture. Before I go on, I will first praise the rescue personnel as in the coldest, darkest and most difficult time of the year saved the entire crew of 14 from the shrimp trawler «Northguider» outside Svalbard. It was down to 20 degrees Fahrenheit (20 degrees Fahrenheit), dark, strong winds and dense snow showers when the crew was rescued in safety by the Two Helicopters of the Man in a demanding rescue situation. The event did not take place in the surrounding areas outside Longyearbyen, but in the Hinlopenstredet, which lies northeast of Spitsbergen. This is an isolated and difficult-to-reach area, not least in winter. Despite the challenges and location of the area, the rescue personnel on the two Longyearbyen helicopters managed to rescue the entire crew less than four hours after the boat crashed. This was done during the ingenious coordination of the Head Rescue Center North Norway with the support of the local Svalbard rescue centre. The cooperation worked well, in close dialogue through the event. It is important to recognise that conditions in Svalbard and adjacent sea areas are special. Climatic conditions, long distances and the absence of daylight several months a year present specific challenges in the area of rescue preparedness. We also record that civil ship traffic has increased around Svalbard in recent years, with more fishing activity north of Svalbard even in the winter season. In this context, it is important to stress that individuals are responsible for their own risk assessment, prevention and preparedness. The Community may not be present anywhere at any time. These include: increased activity and traffic in the Arctic underpinning Norway's international rescue and preparedness cooperation in the north. Through the agreement of the Arctic Council, which has been in force since 2013, countries bordering the Arctic Ocean shall cooperate on search and rescue in both Arctic aviation and maritime matters. The aim of the Agreement is to strengthen cooperation and coordination on search and rescue in this region. The agreement does not require the contracting parties to increase the response capacities, as the representative himself claims. The actual dimensioning of preparedness is therefore a national issue. The agreement divides the Arctic into different search and rescue areas. The main rescue centre of North Norway is an operational point of contact with the coordination responsibility for rescue operations in the area of Norway, which extends all the way up to the North Pole. Since 2015, the agreement has been followed by a working group of the Arctic Council, in which Norway also participates with expertise from the Northern Norway Main Rescue Centre. The same working group also follows up an oil protection agreement under the Arctic Council. Norway has also been a party to a bilateral agreement with Russia on search and rescue in the Barents Sea for many years. After the agreement, the practice is conducted annually through the practice series of Barents, where Norway and Russia switch to organise the exercise. International rescue agreements help to ensure our own preparedness, and increased international rescue cooperation helps to make better use of the overall resources. In the case of Svalbard and the adjacent sea areas there has been a strengthening of the rescue preparedness in recent years. Today, Longyearbyen is a platform for rescue and preparedness in the area. In 2014, the employment man received two Super Puma helicopters, which have much larger capacity for carrying the number of emergency seats, sensors and reach. New hangar was also completed at the same time. In 2014, the Employment Manager also entered into a lease for a new, modern service vessel, ‘Polaremployment’. The ‘Polar employment’ sailing season was extended from six to nine months in 2016. The vessel also has helicopter decks. The Coast Guard has its own cooperation agreement with the Employment Officer, and the Helicopters of the Employment Officer may also land on the ‘Svalbard’ KV. From 2017/2018, the establishment of anaesthetics watch regime was linked to the Sysselmann helicopters. The employee has started work in dialogue with relevant response actors to assess the co-location of equipment in Longyearbyen. At the same time, it is important to point out that the local preparedness of Svalbard is not dimensioned to deal with major and simultaneous events over a long period of time. It's important to recognise that the Longyearbyen is and will depend on resources from the mainland. Prevention is therefore important. The establishment of State unloading services and the introduction of port and water law are examples of just that. There is also a ban on the use of heavy oil over large parts of Svalbard and oil protection equipment stationed in Longyearbyen. The Coast Guard is a very important resource in the north as a result of its continuous presence in Norwegian sea areas, with a total of three vessels in the structure. Of the Coast Guard's patrol day is 60 pst. in northern sea areas. It is endeavoured at all times to have a vessel in the protection zone around Svalbard. However, having a presence at all times in all sea areas where there is activity will require a significantly larger structure. The government's maintenance of the construction of three new seagoing coastguard vessels means that the Coast Guard is increasingly becoming a response resource even in the northern sea areas. The NH90 is adapted to Norwegian conditions, tailored to the needs of the Coast Guard, and will contribute to better preparedness also in northern sea areas. The government has also done a lot in recent years to increase maritime safety in the north. The most important thing is the prevention of accidents. The Government is working nationally and internationally to ensure that vessels and equipment are suitable for polar water operations, that the captain and the crew have the necessary training to deal with the challenges they may face, and that the ship is subsequently operated. Some of the most important work that has been done to ensure sustainable development of shipping in the north is the work of the United Nations Maritime Organisation, the IMO, on the Polar Code, which entered into force on 1 January 2017. This will help to reduce the likelihood of adverse events and include increasing ship and crew safety and the protection of the vulnerable environment in these areas. There are greater connecting challenges in northern waters than there are in the south. Communication infrastructure is limited. Well-functioning emergency communication is central to good preparedness in the north. Assessments of the need for improvements in emergency communication are continuous work. The Ministry of Justice and Defence has, among other things: received input from the Main Rescue Centre and Telenor Coastal Radio on the development of enhanced radio communication, HF, assessed. Existing satellite communications systems have little or no coverage north of the 72nd parallel. In the spring of 2018, the Storting discussed a conditional commitment to capital for Space Norway AS to contribute to the realisation of satellite broadband communications in the northern regions. By doing so, Norway will have civil and military autonomy that strengthens our role as a responsible actor in the northern regions. Ensuring adequate preparedness in Norwegian sea areas is a priority task for the government. It is a demanding task in a large and weather-resilient area, and the government therefore assesses the ongoing preparedness in the light of activities and the current risk picture. The fact that the crew of the ‘Northguider’ was transported safely to Longyearbyen for four hours after the ship had crashed shows that the readiness worked – despite the fact that the trawler chose to operate alone, in the dark, far from the nearest vessel, in waters with ice and under difficult weather conditions during Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e2364	Let me say thank you for the answer from the Council of State. We agree on a lot, not least that there are special challenges to operating in the northern regions, and also to having sufficient preparedness. I would have been careful to draw that conclusion after what happened to ‘Northguider’ and say that this is an argument that preparedness today is good enough. I'll get back to that a little bit. But I didn't say in my post that the agreement in the Arctic Council demands what preparedness we should have, but I said that the core question here today is to discuss what it means when we have committed ourselves to having an adequate and adequate preparedness and having that operational one. It is also interesting to discuss, regardless of the agreement. That's right, as the Council of State says, and as I also said in my post, a lot has happened. A lot has happened in terms of prevention. Much has been done in terms of strengthening preparedness, both during this government and also by the previous government. The satellites, to which reference is made, which improves telecommunications, were an initiative by the Stortinget, a proposal that was promoted in 2016. I myself was one of the proposers for that. I wish I was happy that we got the NH90 helicopters, but I'm in doubt if they're coming. It's been a long nightmare and is a discussion we've been going on. At the moment, it's not a readiness that we can have confidence in coming. I'll try to challenge the Council of States on some concrete points. What is in the government’s northern division is, among other things, that measures from SARINOR should be considered, and one of the questions will then be: Which of those measures is what you do not want to do? What measures have been taken? Communication between ‘Northguides’ and the outside world failed. It made communication between ‘Senja’ and the Main Rescue Centre and those in need difficult. Communication was also challenging when the helicopter fell outside Barentsburg – in 2017, it was well. When do we get the satellites in place? Will the government start developing coastal radio to improve communication on the island group and in the sea areas around it? There is also a discussion about what would happen if the helicopters did not arrive, because they operated completely on the outer edge of their radius when they were on ‘Northguides’. What if it had happened a few miles further east or further north – what then? Will the government consider extending, as required, the operating time to ‘Polar employment’ so that it is annual? Will Preparedness Be Strengthened? What about the question of a interoperability unit at the main rescue centres, as proposed by the Liaison Group to the Ministry, on which the Ministry received a report back in 2016? When do we get a decision on that? Will the government go in for that? The answer shows that we agree on the description and that the challenges are there. But I have to say, I'm disappointed that the ambitions to lift this up, as a necessary prerequisite for developing the northern regions, lack the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e2391	The proposals of the SARINOR report are assessed as part of the ongoing work on measures for increased maritime safety, preparedness for acute pollution and search and rescue in the northern sea areas. Some of the measures have already been implemented by the government, such as: the efforts to facilitate reinforced maritime communication infrastructure, including a satellite communications system in the northern regions, as I mentioned in my contribution. This is important for safe navigation and for effective and safe rescue and emergency services. It is important to point out that the assessment of the need for satellite broadband communications was initiated by, inter alia: The NFD before the SARINOR report actually came. This also applies to the work on the further improvements of life-saving equipment, etc. at IMO. But the SARINOR report has given useful input that is definitely included. Through international rescue work in the north, we are getting more and more experience, and not least through regular exercises, as also mentioned by the representative. This provides a useful basis for further development of rescue preparedness both in Norway and in other countries and is mutually beneficial. It is a very important response during the investigation – as the representative also pointed out – precisely the satellite broadband communications system in northern areas. In this context, I would also like to mention the SAR-Arktis agreement. There is an agreement from 2013 on cooperation in the search and rescue of Arctic aviation. The aim of the Arctic Agreement is to establish more committed rescue cooperation, including a better regional organisation of search and rescue in the Arctic. Norway is also a party to the bilateral agreement with Russia on cooperation in the field of maritime rescue in the Barents Sea. Annual practice is conducted between Norway and Russia, both as a desktop survey and live. Cruise ship mass rescue is a scenario that is practised in several contexts, resulting in useful experience.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e2404	First, I want to say that it's very good that there's an interpellation about exactly this, with the accident that just happened in the Svalbard area, like a back carpet. The sea areas around the poles are demanding. It is remote, and it is vulnerable, which has an impact on the safety of both ships, crew and passengers as well as the environment in which it is operated. The Polar Code, which came into force on 1 January 2017, which is also international, has rules on both the design and construction of ships, equipment, operational conditions, training and protection of the environment. I had the pleasure of being the rapporteur on the issue of social security. In that connection, I was in the SARINOR2 exercise. I was with a week in these areas where we were going to test lifesaving equipment. I was in a rubber raft for 48 hours at 40 degrees Fahrenheit. We were 20 people inside such a fleet, people who were well prepared. There were young people from the Coast Guard and the Defense. There were people from the suppliers who had developed and made this equipment. So we were well prepared. Not so many were in 48 hours. When we were picked up from these rubber sheets, I think I had a body temperature of 34–35 degrees. It wasn't much food, it was damp, it was dark, it was high waves. It made the impression – in relation to sitting and writing an attitude to a social security message in an office here in the house. Being allowed to participate with suppliers, along with people who have this task, gives good experience. I also agreed to write the report – to give a small impression. Suppliers from Canada, the Netherlands, Denmark and several other countries delivered equipment to the ships to operate in these waters. We had the equipment tested – tested what was good, tested what was not good. Immediately after various exercises, we sat in the working group to look at what needed to be improved so that equipment could save lives in the future. I can't talk enough about the SARINOR exercises. A lot of people are on a voluntary basis. It was with doctors, it was with rescuers, etc. We were picked up from the sea by Puma helicopters. We see what happened now, that they spent several hours saving 14 people from a fishing boat. We can imagine a scenario – which was also in the Council of State – with a cruise ship with several thousand aboard, old people may also be, which is not prepared. We were lucky; we were prepared and had equipment around us. For this purpose, training and testing equipment with suppliers: perhaps also those who will operate in these waters should be involved in such exercises, so that they can try to lie in these fleets, try to get cold, try to be picked up in the dark, in waves, etc. I also think that those who operate commercially need to learn from it. The Coast Guard is also doing a phenomenal job. But I have to say, «Polar work» – which is located in Longyearbyen – was under this accident on Sunnmaere. That's not good. With the increased traffic we have, related to both fish, tourism, etc., ‘Polar employment’ should probably have operational responsibility every month of the year, because we know that it is not about an accident, it is about when it happens. We have experience with that. It's about response time. There are very large distances, and having ships and helicopters available is absolutely necessary. Strengthening cooperation between public, private and local actors is essential in order for Norway to lead the world in search and rescue in our areas, where we have a very special responsibility. That's why the dimensioning is crucial for us to do a good job.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e2421	First, I would like to thank the representative, Eirik Sivertsen, who addresses this important matter and allows us in Stortinget to take part in the attention to the safety of those who travel in the harsh sea areas of the Arctic. I am very pleased that the crew on the boat went so well, and not least I would like to extend a great thank you to those who are doing their work as rescue personnel under such demanding conditions. Over recent years, we have noticed increased activity and traffic in the Arctic, both because of the climatic changes that have caused fishing resources to move further north, and because the Arctic, in particular the Svalbard region, is attractive to cruise traffic. Now, luckily, it went well with this event. For four hours after the crash, the crew had been rescued from the Hagarist and come in security and under supervision in Longyearbyen. Of course, we should be concerned with increasing safety and strengthening the rescue preparedness in the area. But I also think it is important to take into account that preparedness is actually strengthened. In 2014, the employee received two Super Puma helicopters, which have both greater capacity and longer reach than the previous one, so it was a good progress. These were essential for the rescue operation to go as well as it did. Similarly, ‘Polar employment’, which is the Employment Officer’s service ship, increased its sailing time from six to nine months from 2016. I am currently recording that it is being discussed whether ‘Polar employment’ should increase sailing time from nine to twelve months. It may be the right way to go, but I think we might have to take it that ‘Polar employment’ is largely located in the neighbourhoods of Longyearbyen and does not operate in the i region. It had taken several days from ‘Polar employment’, possibly having been sent out from Longyearbyen until it had been near the Hagarist. I think it is important that we discuss whether the Coast Guard boat is the right one to be present, and that we at least make sure to use the resources we have in the best possible way. I believe it is important that those operating under these demanding conditions are aware of the preparedness available at all times, that they take into account that a rescue operation can be very demanding and take its precautions and carry out a risk assessment when operating in arctic conditions. Finally, I would like to commend the work done by SARINOR to shed light on the need for rescue resources, and which continues to provide important input to ensure the best and most appropriate preparedness for those who travel in the Arctic. The Government has stated that it will strengthen safety and preparedness in the north, and through the swallow-bard message, Stortinget has agreed to an ongoing assessment of the preparedness of Svalbard, in the light of increased activity on the island group and any change in the risk picture.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e2434	And I want to start by thanking the interpellant for bringing up this topic. I would also like to congratulate the Council of State on its appointment as Minister for Social Security. It is good that the government gets its own government council responsible for this field. It is important to bear in mind – and we should all be grateful for – what the Council of State said, that this rescue operation went well, and that the 14 crew got well out of it, despite quite harsh weather conditions. It is also important to recognise that conditions in and in the areas around Svalbard are special. The climatic conditions and the special landscape will always make this area much more demanding than elsewhere. No matter how good the preparedness is, this is going to be a special factor in these areas. The representative Asphjell also had his own experience with this preparedness, which illustrates the special situation in Svalbard and surrounding areas. Therefore, it may be particularly important to stress the responsibilities of the actors operating in these areas for enhanced preparedness and plans for what to do in emergency situations. I think it's positive that we see an increasing activity in the Arctic areas, but those who operate in these areas, whether it's a fishing vessel or it's a cruise ship, will also have to have a different type of standby and a different type of equipment than what you have in more southern struts. The Main Rescue Centre and the Rescue Company also have good tools to address the specific challenges faced by Svalbard and similar areas. I myself have had the pleasure of seeing part of these plans through my participation in the main course at the Defence College, and I will give them credit for the impressive piece of work that is done, although we obviously can get much better. I would also like to draw up the agreements with Russia on search and rescue in the Barents Sea, and again: the helicopter accident at Svalbard was mentioned in previous speeches, and it showed – at least in retrospect – that ability to cooperate well when critical events have occurred. It is wrong to say that the preparedness has not been strengthened. Preparedness is strengthened. You can probably always do more, and we can't say that we're in the goal, but the two Super Puma helicopters that the employee's been given are definitely a strengthening of preparedness. ‘Polar employment’ is also a strengthening of preparedness. These are important tools and very important for the whole Svalbard community and all those operating in the Svalbard area. So it's a strengthening of preparedness, even though the difficult conditions on Svalbard make us have to work more on this. With perhaps the most important thing we can do to prevent undesirable future emergencies, because it will occur, is prevention, and that the actors operating in these areas are made aware of the special preparedness and the special conditions that they need to take into account also on their own vessels when operating in such areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e2449	Are we well prepared in the Barents Sea? The background for the question is the event when the fishing boat «Northguider» from More and Romsdal sent out a signal all the way north in the Hinloopenstredet, in Kinnvika on the North East on Svalbard, December 28, 2018. As in the past, I also fish in this area, I know what it means to have certainty that you are being mountained if the accident is out. This is perhaps one of the toughest things we have of coastal areas, deserted and cold. The only suitable rescue vessel was 1000 km from Longyearbyen when the trawler crashed. The "Northguider" shrimp trawler is still grounded in the protected area, with holes in the hull. You can't have a standby where we come nagging from land when it happens lost, as it happened outside Svalbard a Friday afternoon. Now the boat is in a very vulnerable area, in one of the richest areas for fish, in a protection zone. If the boat goes down, there is a disaster, regardless of whether one has taken out all the oil from the boat, at least most of the oil. Norway's ability to promote sovereignty in the Norwegian economic zone has been weakened by today's government. The coastguard has too few staff to meet his needs. Coast Guard helicopters have not yet entered the vessel. The Norwegian search and rescue capacity is weakened by the fact that the maritime patrol aircraft on Andøya are on the ground because of the government's recklessness in terms of personnel. The Coast Guard signals a great deal of uncertainty about the situation they're in. They have not received a double crew, as they would in 2017. The NH90 is not yet in place, and the maritime defence's ability to monitor, control, search and rescue is impaired. The coastguard believes we are heading back to the situation that was before when the Lynx helicopters were available, with the dumping of fish, the larger vessel that goes with devoured lanterns into the fjords to fish, as well as little room for action to help people in distress. On top of it all, Andøya Air Station now reports that the Orion aeroplanes will not be able to be on standby from now on and forward in 2019. The coastguard had no vessel in the area when the accident occurred. The nearest possible rescue vessel was the «Barents Sea» KV located at the Bear Island, but the vessel was unable to enter the breakdown area when there was more ice there than the ship is designed to handle. The KV ‘Svalbard’, certified for navigation in ice waters, was located on the coastguard base of Blackland. It's more than 1,000 km away from Longyearbyen. It takes several days to walk from Sortland to Svalbard. The ‘Polar employment’, the special built oil vessel of the employed person, with helicopter base to provide protection and safety in the waters, is in winter storage in Ålesund for three months each winter due to economics. The point is not whether a vessel is in the protection zone. The point is whether one has sufficient vessels around Svalbard to perform all the tasks assigned to it under the Coast Guard Act – Coast Guard Helicopters, § 14 – rescue operations, fisheries surveillance, fisheries surveillance and resource control. Fortunately, people were doing well this time. It's not the government's fault. It's just fun.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e2470	Governments were involved with satellites and communications, and it's important parts of the issue. But the whole "Northguider" accident illustrates something different and much more concrete, and it's that the pooling of resources is just too far away – too far away from the Arctic. The whole "Northguider" event is the most perfect illustration magnification, government and emergency authorities can get at it. We don't have an emergency base on the island group. The nearest emergency base is on the mainland. We don't have full-year operations of 'Polar Employment', a ship that we've only rented for nine months from Icelandic actors. This means that it is out in the months of November, December and January; there is no year-round operation on it, while year-round fishing is at the island group – on an ever-increasing scale due to warmer water. And there's year-round tourism on the island group. Slowly increased activity should mean that one should also have increased preparedness. What the government has done here is not very impressive. Super Puma helicopters were adopted – the extension of capacity – in 2012. When ‘Polarsysel’ went from seven to nine months of operation in 2016, it was of course an extension, but that’s the only extension we’ve seen. It has not been a further strengthening of preparedness in the north. And then it's just to say, as Severin Sovereign said, this was luck! I'm glad it went as well as it did. Two minutes had helicopters before they had to turn around. If they had ‘Polar jobs’ that have helicopter landing arrangements, they could have had better time. If they had had a little less time, a little worse weather, this could be really bad. It was luck, and this was in the middle of a nature reserve where we know it could happen in wintertime. It's pure luck, because one has not dimensioned the readiness properly. ‘Polar employment’ was at this point in circulation on the Moltuan Beach in Sunnmøre. There was the ship. It has the capacity to receive all the 300,000 pieces of oil that had to be unloaded. It didn't have KV "Svalbard", it wasn't dimensioned for this. And this was a shrimp trawler. We know that there are tourist ships in the area, a lot more people can be involved on these boats, and we can't build the Norwegian effort on standby in the Arctic in luck, like one does here. That's what the government adds up to. Then it becomes very interesting when a comprehensive Norwegian search and rescue environment provides a report and recommends a series of measures. Of course, they recommend the year-round operation of ‘Polar employment’, and they recommend establishing a fixed, spatial emergency base on the island group. This could provide far more knowledge and coordination of rescue operations in the north, to a total of 170 million, estimated by the expert group. kr. Probably the shrimp trawler cost a lot more, but that's the total cost of the increased preparedness in the north as a collective rescue environment stands behind, and they think that then we're going to have a lot more capacity to do rescue missions that are dimensioned for the increased activity. I understand that it has our discussion, because it was in March last year that the SARINOR project was presented to the government – about who will take the bill. I stood firm in the Council of State's reply, that the community cannot be anywhere in the event of an accident. That's what I thought we should notice -- the community can't be anywhere where accidents happen. Does this mean that a non-proportional dimension should not be present for the ratio of the increased activity in the northern regions? Does a man have a mind for it? As I understand it, the SARINOR report is not effective, one has not gone into the conclusions there. This was presented in March last year and is a direct follow-up to the Sullivan message from 2016 and the preparedness message from 2017, where one said we should increase preparedness in the north. And the only thing we're left with is a satellite project, NH90, which is completely unclear what time is coming, and these two months more with Polar Employment, which we know is too small. So I want to ask the Council of State to give clear answers as to what they've been going to do when it's about the preparedness in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e2488	I would like to thank Mr Sivertsen, who is drawing up an important theme that I think we should discuss, on how the preparedness of Svalbard should be dimensioned. Not least that dimensioning is important for the safety of the population, the settlement, on Svalbard, but it is also important for shipping around the archipelago and the entire Norwegian responsibility for preparedness in the Arctic. And then one should bring with him whether it should at all be a vessel alone in Hinlopen in the middle of winter, and one should be able to ask who really acts irresponsibly here. Should a fishing vessel operate in midwinter, in the darkest time, in one of the most risky and remote waters you can catch? This is an area that is poorly monitored and far from providing assistance if a critical situation should arise. The crew member carried out a strike rescue operation with his two rescue helicopters. Later the ship was emptied of oil, after good work from local operators at Svalbard. And should the fishing industry perhaps learn something from travel life, which has strict guidelines for how to operate in the Arctic? Of course, the ambulance aircraft standby on Svalbard represents a vulnerability, and the vulnerability of the ambulance flight capacity on Svalbard is striking and should be addressed. The flight capacity of small propeller aircraft in North Norway is marginal when one comes up to Svalbard, and one was lucky in the 2015 scrap disaster with the weather being so good that the planes got up and picked up those who were seriously and life-threateningly damaged. This is a track that will provide a significant boost to preparedness for a reasonable amount of money, since planes and crew are already here. It is rational to use the capacity already paid by the country and it will bring immediate gains. Not least, the SariNOR action list is a good starting point for developing preparedness in the Arctic. The Sivertsen points to the work of SARINOR in its interpellation. While there are several good measures in that action plan, it is essential that such activity be added to Longyearbyen and that it contributes to local competence, jobs and value creation. Competence in preparedness in the Arctic should be an important area of Longyearbyen, and it is a good track that the establishment of a weather radar and the intensification of Svalbard monitoring are prioritised as two important and concrete actions from the SARINOR action plan. A weather radar will provide better weather forecasting, which is again important when assessing evacuation of outsourced residential areas, and will also assist the flight and helicopter crews when they are going on demanding missions, similar to the mission in Hinlaufen in winter. Today, the pilots know little about the weather conditions that await them when they arrive at demanding rescue missions. Those I've talked to, who have operated rescue helicopters on Svalbard, are producing a lot of reasons to establish a weather radar on Svalbard. Weather forecasts related to the assessment of evacuation in outlying residential areas are a security for the population, but exciting education and research around such weather radar can also be built. Pilots involved in rescue operations may use real-time weather radar information to avoid bad weather. Weather conditions change incredibly quickly on Svalbard, and this will provide better weather forecasts that can benefit travel life, research environments and not least fishing boats and the rest of the population. Then an hour of flight arrivals could be better, which is especially important for ambulance aeroplanes with reduced capacity. This will ensure the overall preparedness for Svalbard. When I have been listening to the debate, I am a little surprised that you are not concerned about what SARINOR – and the environment with which I have at least had contact, that is, the svalbard environment – has been very concerned about, precisely how important weather information is in the area. Instead, one wants to polish around some other challenges, which I believe are of course also important, but I also think it is particularly important to get such information when moving in these areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e2503	First of all, I'm going to thank the interpellant for addressing a very important topic. It is clear that when we look at the government statement that we had here too soon, where the Prime Minister chose not to mention the northern regions at all, the questions asked by the representative are timely. Furthermore, we should be glad that recent events did not lead to the loss of life and that those who were on board "Northguides" were doing well. It was demonstrated that with a little bit of luck we got to the incredible. What is the background to the interpellant's questions are among other things. The SARINOR project, search and rescue in the northern regions, a project that has gone on for a long time, and we are now in the final action plan for it. I record that the Council of State is not interested in going into and responding to what measures the government could intend to follow up. I'm excited to see if that means that you're going to include it in the long notice of the Nordgebiet message, and whether that's why you're a little reluctant to provide information. You shouldn't be. I believe that we should have reinforced the work of getting a sufficient level of preparedness in the northern regions, regardless of whether we are waiting to start a new northern zone notification. What we see, as of course several representatives have experienced, is that there is an increase in activity in the north, both in the light of the melting of the police and in the marketing of access within tourism and in research to new areas of the world, which are naturally interested in seeing what is going on, and not least in research into new things. One of the main elements of the action plan drawn up by SARINOR is the desire to establish an Arctic Emergency and Knowledge Centre in Longyearbyen for Search and Rescue, and not least on the emergency side. I record that the Council of State believes that it has already been put in place, saying that a “platform” has been put in place in Longyearbyen. I think the search and rescue environment strongly disagrees with that. It assumes that there is a significantly greater level of emergency equipment and personnel, and not least its development than is the case today. This is because there are expenditures related to increasing preparedness, but there are expenditures that the Stortinget really had to realize when it has chosen to invest in the northern areas. When considering what is happening weatherily, but also the increased economic opportunities that increased access to the north provides, one must also be able to assume that one is aware that it will lead to costs. Then there's more discussion about how to get it into place. It is good that you have an agreement for search and rescue, but the question is how to set up preparedness agreements, i.e. how to be prepared in advance. One of the things the Polar code takes up is trying to get to, among other things. the aim is to increase self-rescue. There's an important background that's not taken up, and that's that 90 pst. of Arctic ship traffic passing through Norwegian waters. 80 pst. of Norway’s marine areas are located in the Arctic, and when we intend to take on a greater role and use the sea from this room, it is also the research community that points to the future technological solutions and drugs that need to be put in place, we must also be prepared to increase preparedness, whether it be Svalbard emergency centres, the various measures that SARINOR points to, sufficient capacity for the Coast Guard, including helicopters, and the new weather radar that the representative of Skkelstad was in, or other measures. It commits when Norway as a country has the area that we have, and not least the possibilities that we have. I hope that the government will be a little more humble in the future and not least look at many of the good professional recommendations that SARINOR has made on how to get better preparedness in the north. It will be a condition for us to be able to secure people and values as the activity increases in the northern regions – hopefully for the benefit of all of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e2522	I would like to thank the representative Sivertsen for bringing up an important matter. This is incredibly important. We see that there are fishing boats and other vessels sailing in these areas. They depend on taking their catch at the time when either fish or shrimp, or whatever it is, is in the area. Then the boats must be there, and then it is important that the readiness is there. Norway is the world's second longest coast. At the same time, we have sovereignty over vast seas, especially in the north. The Norwegian sea area from Lindesnes to the northern tip of Svalbard is as far as Lindesnes to Gibraltar. The Barents Sea and the Norwegian Sea are a vulnerable and ludicrous sea area. In 2018, 8,507 operations were carried out by the main rescue agencies. 2,969 of these were in the north. The number of operations has been doubled in the last 10 years. In 2018 there were about 550 000 cruise passengers in Norwegian waters and about 80,000 tourists by sea against Svalbard. The number is increasing from year to year. 85 pst. of maritime activity in the Arctic is in the Norwegian zone, and there are about 20,000 people who have their daily activities at sea in Norway. These have 20 times as high mortality risk as those who work on land. Then it's important to have a good preparedness. Coast Guards signal a great deal of uncertainty around the situation they're in. They have not received a double crew or resources as promised in 2017. The NH90 is not yet in place, and the marine defense's ability to monitor, control, search and rescue is weak. Coast Guard thinks we're heading back to the situation that was before the Lynx helicopter was available. Dumping of fish, larger vessels carrying sloes into the fjords to fish, and little room for action to help people in distress is the result. Norway does not intend to ensure robust MPA capacity, as a means of rescue, due to its government's misappropriation of Andeya Air Station. The main rescue department has repeatedly sent concerns to the government. Now it is time to know its responsibilities and take action to secure credible preparedness in the Norwegian sea areas and the waters around it. I now hope that the government and the minister are humble and listen to the signals and the good recordings that have come here.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e2533	Let me thank my good colleagues for a good and informed debate, a debate that has essentially been about discussing how we can do this better, because it would have been possible – even in the light of media headlines, debates we have had in Stortinget in recent years – to criticise much more seriously the overall preparedness and security work. We have chosen not to do that, because we perceive that all the debaters have had an interest in doing things better. I believe that if we take ships and crew and possibly passengers into the Arctic waters, we bear a very great responsibility as captain. One must be prepared that there is a clear relationship, there are demanding situations, and one must be aware that there are areas where there is no readiness at all, and one cannot expect someone to be there immediately if the accident should be out. But even if you have good competence, are prepared and have thought through these conditions, the accident may be out, as the ‘Northguider’ accident has shown. Accidents can happen the best, but I do not agree with those who have said here today that the reason that went well, just was luck, because it was capable seamen on board «Northguider», there were good rescue teams and good cooperation, but it was also a good portion of luck. Although we have done a lot in the last few years in terms of prevention, we have strengthened preparedness, and we have plans to get satellites up – yes, it is right that the Ministry of Food and Fisheries has assessed these satellites, but they have rejected it, it did not come up in the NFD initiative, it was the Stortinget that raised it – is the question: Is that good enough? My answer is no, it's not good enough today – not in the light of the ambitions we have as a maritime nation and port, and that's not good enough given the increasing activity we all expect. There's a very good knowledge base there. SARINOR1 arrived in 2016, SARINOR2 arrived in 2017. A priority action plan was put forward at the request of deposit representatives for government and expansion in 2018. The government has written in its Northern Territory Strategy to evaluate the measures, and we hear the Council of State say that it is assessed on an ongoing basis. It is good to assess it, but it could have been okay to conclude soon. What are we going to do? And everyone understands that not everything can be solved at once, but you have to say something about what it is we're going to prioritize. Let me appeal to the government that you evaluate it. The priority action plan, which is widely endorsed by the actors concerned from SARINOR, which was presented last year, can be used as a basis for addressing the situation at an affordable amount. We're a polarization, we're a port. If we're going to continue to be a power power in the north, we need to have presence and presence. This applies to the exercise of authority, but also to security and preparedness, so that those who operate there and who exercise presence and presence can be rescued when the accident is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e2548	Thank you very much for the very good questions and contributions and a very interesting debate here in the Storting today. I'm also emotionally torn by this, these are demanding areas. We all agree that good security and preparedness for adverse events are essential for sustainable development in the Arctic and for healthy development in the North. With increased commercial activity related to, inter alia: Cruise traffic, fisheries and research activities are important if we are to have the necessary response resources and capacities in the Barents Sea and around Svalbard. We all agree. International cooperation in the search and rescue of Arctic waters is important in this context, but we must recognise that conditions in Svalbard and neighbouring sea areas are special. Everyone who has been on this pulpit today has pointed out that. I disagree with the representative Knag Fylkesnes that Svalbard does not have a rescue base. Today, Longyearbyen is a platform for rescue and preparedness. The workers' helicopters are reinforced by two large helicopters. The sailing period for the ‘Polar employment’ vessel of the employed person has been extended from six to nine months. A separate cooperation agreement has been established between the Coast Guard and the Employment Officer, and anaesthetic watch arrangements linked to the Helicopter of the Employment Officer have been established. But prevention is the best preparedness. Government pilotage and port and water law have been introduced. Work is carried out at national and international level to ensure that vessels, equipment, captains and crews have the necessary training and are suitable for operation in polar waters, cf. e.g. The Polar Code, which came in 2017. I myself have been in the rescue service. I have worked as a professional climber and have been in both exercises and sharp rescue situations. I know what it's about when you don't have enough equipment. But what is good enough equipment? I remember the four Swedish tourists who died in Tamokdalen a while ago. You couldn't go inside and save them because of the weather. Was the equipment good enough, or did we have limitations due to the weather situation? It is important to remember that all the 14 on board the North Guides were rescued. And it is important to stress that everyone who travels in the demanding waters of Svalbard and elsewhere must be conscious of the special conditions to which they are exposed. Ultimately, the shipper is responsible for ship, safety and navigation. I also have to remind you that had «Polar employment» been in Longyearbyen on the day that «Northguider» went down, it had spent 20 sailing hours to get the crew to rescue.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e2563	The debate on substance is closed. So 8 is going to be equal to-- so 8 is going to be equal to-- 8 is
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e2579	Does anyone ask for the word? - That's not what it looks like.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e2597	A total of seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 3 and 4, from Else May Bottom on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party the proposals No 1 and 2, by Else May Bottom, on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party the proposals No 5-7, by Lars Haltbrecken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Greens There is a vote on proposal No. 5, by the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Prop 106 L Law on mineral activities on the continental shelf is returned to the government. [[Marine Minerals Act]] [[2017-2018]] The government is asked to set up a public body to investigate mineral activities on the continental shelf where both environmental interests and the various industrial interests are represented. The mandate of the Committee must include, inter alia, an assessment of the environmental and economic consequences of opening up the continental mineral extractive cap.» Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e3597	Alternatively, there is a vote between A § 1-1 and proposal No. 6, by the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Sections 1 to 1 are replaced by the following: This law shall ensure the sustainable and environmental management of marine resources by any exploration and extraction of mineral deposits on the continental shelf. The activity must be carried out only in such a way as to achieve social objectives such as the environment, community value creation, business security, other industrial activities and other interests.» Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e3616	Alternatively, there is voting between A § 1-7 and proposal No. 1 from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Sections 1 to 7 are replaced by the following: Mineral activities under this Act shall be carried out in a sound manner and shall take into account the safety of personnel, the environment and the economic values of devices and vessels. Mineral activities must not unnecessarily or unduly impede or impede shipping, fishing, aviation or other activities or cause harm or risk of damage to pipelines, cables or other subsea devices. All reasonable measures shall be taken to avoid damage to the natural diversity of the sea or the cultural heritage of the seabed and to avoid contamination and navigability. The management of mineral resources shall be ecosystem-based and in line with the precautionary principle. The Ministry may, by means of individual decisions or regulations, lay down detailed rules for ensuring environmentally sound mineral activities. Environmental authorities shall ensure compliance with the requirement of environmentally sound mineral activities and may raise objections to mineral recovery plans for which environmental considerations are not adequately addressed. Objections shall be raised as early as possible and at the latest within the time limit set for the consultation of the impact assessment. Objections shall be justified by national objectives, frameworks and guidelines.’;» Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e3643	It is votered over A § 3-1, second paragraph, point (e). The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e3657	There is a vote on proposal No. 7, by the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 4-2(d) is replaced by the following: d) the geographical area desired under the permit, including identified natural diversity on the seabed and an initial impact assessment of natural effects that any mineral extraction would have on the identified natural diversity.» Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e3677	Alternatively, the first paragraph of point (d) of Section 4-2 shall be substituted for proposal No. Four, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 4-2(d) is replaced by the following: d) the geographical area desired under the permit, including identified natural diversity on the seabed.’» The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e3696	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to assess the establishment of its own mineral prospecting resource centre in Norway.’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e3711	There is a vote on proposal No. 2. from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to take an international initiative to strengthen the protection of valuable natural areas on the seabed in international waters to ensure that any exploitation of mineral deposits takes place in an environmentally sound manner.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e3728	It goes over the rest of A. The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e3742	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e3756	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e3770	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e3786	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, by Solfrid Lerbreck on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: «The government is asked to propose amendments to the Working Environment Act in such a way that agreements on the average calculation of working time on the basis of collective bargaining agreements are reserved for establishments bound by a country-wide collective bargaining agreement with trade union rights.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: «The government is asked to propose amendments to the Working Environment Act, so that applications for the use of the average calculation of working time to the Labour Inspectorate, which are justified on the grounds that employees work outside their home and need free periods, must be subject to the condition that the employer has sent the employees on assignment.» Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up. The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e3821	Three proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Eigil Knutsen, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 3, from Solfrid Lerbreck on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to set up a legislative committee to monitor the circumvention of legislation aimed at maintaining the position of workers. The selection shall: propose legislative changes that prevent the law from being circumvented by employers who wish to avoid collective agreements or obligations arising from collective bargaining agreements; review bankruptcy law and propose changes to make legislation more effective, for example by tightening up penalties and bankruptcy quarantine.’;» Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e3856	I should have voted against it, not too.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e3861	Then there are 95 representatives who have voted against the proposal of the Socialist Left and 8 representatives who have voted in favour. The proposal has therefore not been adopted. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e3873	Alternatively, between the setting and the proposals No. 1 and 2 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks for a case to be brought by the government to amend the Working Environment Act which makes it clear that the person who has a real controlling influence over the employment relationship, as well as that resulting from the second paragraph of Section 1-8 of the Working Environment Act, also has rights and obligations as an employer under the Working Environment Act.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a proposal to repeal Section 16-1, second paragraph of the Working Environment Act, so that Chapter 16 of the Working Environment Act, which confers rights on employees in the event of transfer of business, also applies in the event of transfer from the residence of bankruptcy.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e3897	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e4041	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e4051	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e4060	Three proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Heidi Greni on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 2 and 3, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party, which reads: ‘The decision asks the Government to decide on the introduction of a period of time from the time when advance notice of withdrawal of citizenship has been sent until a matter has been settled before the foreign authorities of the first instance.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e4093	Alternatively, between the setting and the proposals No. 2 and 3 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to grant a limitation period which, after a certain period, rescinds the possibility of withdrawing a citizenship under the second paragraph of Section 26 of the Civil Code, with a view to introducing such a rule as soon as possible.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with a bill to impose a double nationality requirement in order to withdraw citizenship.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e4121	In the course of the debate, a total of 20 proposals have been put forward. It's proposals 1-11, from Marit Knutsdatter Strand on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party; the proposals No 12–15, from Torstein Tvedt Solberg on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 16-20, from Mona Fagerås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 16–20, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to introduce a test scheme with an alternative recording criterion for applicants for teacher training to exempt applicants with 40 school credits and above from the requirement of a minimum grade 4 in mathematics from secondary education.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government is asked to propose two additional points for male applicants for primary school teacher training for stages 1 to 7.’; Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to return to the Grand Duchy in an appropriate manner with proposals to extend the grant schemes and expand the area of student loan write-down after completion of teacher training.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government asks the government to consider transferring the negotiating responsibility for teachers from municipality to state.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government is asking the municipalities to make active use of the room for action in order to raise teachers’ pay levels and, in cooperation with the parties, to design a plan for recruiting and maintaining teachers in school.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e4173	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 12–15, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to ensure that the appropriations for continuing education and training are kept at least today’s level in future proposals for the State budget and to ensure a high number of places for continuing education and training for teachers.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to make it compulsory for municipalities to draw up skill plans for each teacher and to ensure that this is followed up by the school owners. Competence plans shall clearly include what each person needs in order to meet the applicable competence requirements and to meet the school’s overall competence needs.’;» Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to provide a national overview of the competences of the trainers in Norway.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to establish a national standard for increasing the teacher’s density for higher education.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e4214	Alternatively, between the setting and the proposals No. 1-11, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to implement a national recruitment campaign specifically aimed at recruiting more men and to stimulate local recruitment for teachers’ students in the last part of the education.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to set up a system of national funding applications that school leaders can apply for to carry out local development projects to recruit more teachers for schools, such as extra pay measures or reward for more permanent employment.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to anchor the system of teachers’ specialists in the social partners before it is further expanded.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to replace the fourth requirement in mathematics for admission to primary school teacher education with broader and more accurate recording requirements which ensure that teachers’ students have sufficient professional competence, such as average qualifications.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to return to the Storting in an appropriate manner, and at the latest in the context of the State budget for 2020, with a status on the scope of guidance for newly educated, newly recruited teachers and the follow-up to the agreement on a national framework for guidance.’;» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government is asked by the Government to legislate on the national guidance system for new-educated teachers.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to amend the training law and the law so as to reintroduce a derogation from the educational qualification requirement for general teachers who have fulfilled the requirements to be employed in the teaching position, including general teachers who have commenced the training before 1 January 2014.’» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to implement a lift of competence for unqualified teachers in school.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking for targeted action to be taken to bring back the reserve strength of teachers working outside the school system, inter alia, by introducing a trust reform in the school to ensure that the overall scope of monitoring, measurement, reporting and documentation requirements at national and local level is reduced, so as to ensure that teachers’ time for the student and the capacity of teachers to act’.» Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government, in cooperation with the parties, to ensure that the school owner and the school management take attractive senior measures to allow teachers to take longer jobs.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the strengthening and development of the decentralised vocational training provision and thus providing an equivalent, flexible and accessible training provision across the country.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e4285	In Case No. 8 no voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e4294	Case No. 9 is the second time the law has been passed and applies to Law 38. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-12.ana.ud527e4326	As a result, the cases on today's map have been completed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
