ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e47	The called alternate of the Hordaland County, Hans Inge Myrvold, now takes the seat. From the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/ Greens/ European of March. In order to participate in the working group of the Baltic Sea Conference of the Nordic Council of Kaliningrad, an application has been made for the leave of the representative Ulf Leirstein on 28 and 29 March. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternate shall be convened to meet during the period of leave as follows: For Eastfold County: Bears Laabak 28-29. March
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e84	The bears Laabak are present and will take the seat. The representative of Marit Knutsdatter Strand will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e91	On behalf of the representative, Marit Arnstad and myself, I would like to present a proposal for a representative to take care of Norwegian research environments in the introduction of Plan S.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e96	The representative, Kristoffer Robin Haug, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e101	On behalf of myself and future generations, I will make a proposal for a more sustainable consumption.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e106	The representative, Mr Huitfeldt, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e111	On behalf of the representatives of Arild Grande, Martin Kolberg, Marianne Marthinsen, Leif Audun Sande, Jonas Gahr Støre, Hadia Tajik and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a representative on the propriety of the purers in the defence sector and a sensible organization of the clean-up of the defence sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e116	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e124	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Kari Kjenaas Kjos. – Other proposals are not available, and Kari Kjønaas Kjos is considered unanimously elected president of the current meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e146	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is Mr Mats A. Kirkebirkeland on behalf of Mr Sveinung Stenland.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e157	I would like to thank the Committee on Cooperation on behalf of the President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Sveinung Stensland. The most important thing in our health system is the patient. Any decision must therefore ensure that the patient is treated as best as possible. One important prerequisite for us to be able to have equal treatment for patients is that all follow the same principles of priority. If you don't have any principles on which to base it, then it's going to be completely random to what priorities are being done in your daily life. That is why we presented the 2016 Communication of Priorities, where a unanimous increase joined the three priority criteria proposed: utility, resource and seriousness. Prioritisation in healthcare is about allocating resources in healthcare to some areas and actions rather than others. The publication of medicinal product prices gives little insight into whether priority should be given to a treatment or a medicinal product. Prioritisation must take into account cost-effectiveness, where price is only one of several elements. In fact, a new medicinal product can be cost-effective — sometimes cost-effective — even if it has a higher price than the medicinal product it replaces. The changes made have led to the introduction of medicinal products for use in healthcare being better controlled than ever before. The most important thing in this case, however, is that transparency of medicinal product prices will not always benefit the patient. Accepting secret prices often gives us lower prices than we would otherwise have achieved if the final price was public. At the same time, we must remember that the maximum price of medicinal products financed by the specialist healthcare system has been published. It is only the discount that can be considered to be commercially confidential and exempted from disclosure after a specific assessment. The purchaser then pays less than the maximum price. We all want the most transparency about the decision-making processes in health care. That is why we have both transparency about the principles underlying the choices made and transparency about the investigation and decision-making processes in the system of new methods. Norway is a small player in a global pharmaceutical market. A curious demand for transparency may mean that we miss out on discounts that are necessary to make use of new innovations and medicines. Norwegian patients won't do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e172	Now I'm a little uncertain about what happened. At least we have to make sure that the setting in the case is presented. It's about changes to the Special Health Service Act, it's the first thing on the agenda. I want to say that healthcare is incredibly complicated. Several million treatments are carried out annually, leading to a continuous risk of serious incidents. Although Norwegian health professionals do everything they can to prevent service errors, there will always be potential for improvement in a complex system. Errors can and will occur, and the most important thing is that we learn from them. The reporting scheme in the Special Health Service Act could be a good tool for this. In 2017, the Health Directorate published a note based on the report on institutional suicide, with learning points for improvement. A year after, just before Christmas last year, the NRK created a series of issues about the same events. The improvement points identified by the NRK had been detected in the past but had not gone from data collection to action and improvement in the service. Another example: a cancerous elderly woman was injected in St. Olav’s hospital with potassium chloride instead of calcium chloride. In the surveillance report, the Health Inspectorate points out that a few months before the failure of St. Olavs had published a learning note that addressed this particular issue, after the same prohibition had taken place elsewhere in Norway and it had notified it. The reporting system had picked up the issue, a learning memo had been published, but the information had not come out to the departments. We want to develop the notification system. The working party believes it should serve the purpose it was meant to serve, but that it can evolve to function even better if you succeed in getting the learning notes out. The first half works well: collecting bug reports and finding common challenges. There are other halves that fail – you don't get to put the knowledge into the system. A large majority of the hearing bodies therefore oppose this amendment. This concerns the Health Directorate, the Medical Association, the Nursing Association, the Patient and User Ombudsman, the FFO and the Centres for Quality and Safety in Health. The Health Directorate stated that the removal of the notification scheme would reduce the possibility of identifying unknown risk areas and contributing factors. The main advantage of the reporting system is that almost all errors — cases where something went wrong but where damage was prevented from being done by the patient — are reported and provide a basis for learning. Another major advantage is to report anonymously. Then more people dare to say when something is wrong. The right-hander will have a breakdown commission. We have a breakdown commission for major accidents. In healthcare, it will draw attention away from continuous improvement efforts and contribute to further fragmentation of patient safety work. With this, I would like to address the proposal of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e193	The representative of Ingvild Kjerkol has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e198	Since 2014, at least 14 people have lost their lives because of hospital losses that could have been avoided. This revealed the NRK on March 18th this year. Following the disclosure, the Minister of Health admitted that there are major challenges to the quality and patient safety of hospitals. At the same time, he will therefore close the notification system for the specialist services. With around 10,000 messages per year, this is a very used system. It is also the only scheme in which health services should learn from errors that have been made, not only when errors have serious consequences. Many people in hospitals report that there is a fear - inspiring culture. Then it is absolutely crucial that there is a safe channel where health professionals can report anonymously that there has been an error, without risking sanctions. A large number of hearing aids have been opposed to shutting down the reporting system, including those who know how the shoe prints, such as: The Medical Association, the Association of Hospital Workers, the Joint Organisation of Disability and the Patient and User Ombudsmen. They all warn against winding-up without an option to prevent unwanted events through learning. This concern is not taken into account by expanding the health surveillance system. The alert mechanism is for the purpose of sanctions and should focus only on the most serious healthcare incidents. The new investigation commission will do the same, and this will increase fragmentation in patient safety work. So the government party believes that the reporting system has not had a good enough effect on preventing unwanted events. Yes, it's clearly a potential for improvement, but the solution is not to put this system down. On the contrary, we should improve the reporting system so that it works as intended, so that the health service can learn from its failures and prevent new errors. The government should also facilitate the development of more learning notes based on the messages in the scheme and ensure that learning notes are actively used in the work on quality and patient safety in hospitals. IN NOW 2015:11, With open cards, there came more clear, professional advice from the Arianson selection. One of the foremost recommendations from the selection was that the notification system should be extended to cover the health and care services as a whole. In addition, the selection concluded that users and relatives should also be able to report events within the scheme. Not least the selection underlined that Norway should have a non-punitive reporting system and that this is important in order to ensure greater transparency about unwanted events. This advice should be listened to by the Minister of Health as to whether he takes quality and patient safety seriously. With that I refer to the proposals on which the Central Party is involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e221	I'm concerned that we have a health service to learn from serious and unwanted events to make services even better and patients even safer. But I believe that the notification system is not the right tool in this job. I would therefore like to wind up the notification system and rather use these resources to extend the current alert mechanism. I am pleased that the majority of the committee also supports this view. We have taken action in several areas: For many years we have had a disaster commission for the transport sector that goes through the course of events in the event of accidents to find out what has happened and what we can learn. We have now set up a separate Health and Welfare Investigation Commission to contribute precisely to the learning and prevention of serious incidents in healthcare, a system that does not contain any sanctions. Today, only the specialist health service can report any serious incident to the Health Authority. Now that the warning system is extended, municipal and private health and care services are also given the same obligation. The alert mechanism means that health surveillance assesses the alerts quickly and carries out on-the-spot monitoring — if necessary. Enlargement will also provide health surveillance with a better overview of risk areas in healthcare services — not just in the specialist healthcare service. I would like to make it clear that healthcare continues to have an overview of non-conformities and adverse events — and follow them up. Management and quality improvement regulations also clearly require all managers to have an overview of the risk of failure in their own activities and take action to reduce that risk. Quality and patient safety is an important topic I have in the governance dialogue with the health regions, and of course I regularly address them. Patient safety has also been the subject of the annual quality notification to the Stortinget, which will be discussed in a short time. The aim of the quality notification is to raise awareness and awareness of quality and patient safety work, both in health policy and at all levels of the service. The proposition to be dealt with by the Storting today also applies to legislative changes that facilitate electronic death messages. I am pleased that a unanimous committee agrees with the government's proposal to modernise this system. Electronic death report will provide a more up-to-date population and cause of death register. This will include, inter alia: provide socio-economic benefits and be useful in emergency situations, for example: under a pandemic or environmental disaster.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e238	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e243	The Council of State and the Government will today, by a majority in the Chamber, terminate the notification mechanism and extend the alert mechanism, as the Council of State says. He also said in his intervention that the warning system led to rapid supervision by the Health Authority. What's good about the reporting system is that there's a non-punitive, low-threshold way of telling about things that don't work, and it also traps errors and shortcomings that don't give dramatic results, and hence possibilities for supervision, penalties and that kind of reaction. But isn't it very good that you can learn from almost errors? And how has the Council of State planned for this to happen in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e248	This is to be done in such a way that businesses continue to report on that type of situation and by introducing a regulation on quality and management that obliges management to use that tool when going through its own business. Nor is there anything in the way that the Health Directorate, based on the large amount of data we have related to patient safety and quality, will also produce in the future, for example. learning notes, but experience so far is that they are used to a small extent in the service. The reporting system also creates uncertainty and uncertainty, as it does not provide feedback to the notifying individual as it is today. I also see from the debate in the service that there is a continuous mix between the warning system and the notification system.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e253	The working party has said that we should further develop the reporting system because it has some obvious, good qualities in making learning notes, and there is a low threshold for reporting, even on almost every occasion. So this is the other half that doesn't work, that's taking the consequences of learning and putting it into practice. The Council of State says that this should be resolved through the management of individual activities. The good thing about the notification system is that the learning notes are distributed across departments across hospitals. Accidents that have occurred in one hospital can learn from another hospital. How is it to take care of this when, in the view of the Council of State, such heavy responsibilities are placed on the management of individual departments and activities? Here, it is important that health services act as just one healthcare service, that errors that have occurred in one place are not completely unnecessary elsewhere in the healthcare system.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e259	Yes, it's also one of my main concerns, that one too little learns across. The story of the representative in the main post just shows that, and there was also a good illustration that the learning notes do not contribute to learning across the board. That is why the Directorate for Health is now working on the development of schemes where there is a greater opportunity to report quickly, across healthcare, when errors occur and occur, or where it is important that the other people who work immediately are quickly informed. I have more faith that we can then quickly get alerted across the ministry than with a system like this, which takes a terrible long time, and in which one does not know what areas learning notes are made. What we know is that the learning notes have had little effect. I have more faith in quick and effective information across the service when you have actual events.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e264	As I did in my previous speech from the Chair, one of the main recommendations of the Arianson Committee was a long line of hearing authorities and international organizations, such as the European Parliament. The World Health Organisation and the Council of Europe, that there is a need for a non-punitive notification system. Nevertheless, the Minister of Health will look away from this and terminate this scheme that we have in Norway. I mean, the Storting lacks a valid basis for exactly this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e269	I believe that this is a valid basis, among other things. in the public inquiry referred to by the representative in his statement. That investigation questions the results of the notification system. We can do the same with regard to the results that were already clear at the time of the introduction of this scheme, including: from Denmark. One has to look at the actual experience of those arrangements and take them over. Now we've set up, right against the voices of the Center Party and the Workers' Party, a survey commission to address issues and provide a broad background analysis and systematically work on them in order to have non-punitive learning arrangements. It is very important that the Commission's method of investigation is precisely a non-punitive method. I have more faith in the sanction-free method than in the notification system.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e274	I'm recording the answer. I'm still worried. The Minister here again underlined his defence to liquidate, that it is to be reported internally by healthcare professionals. However, the NRK’s detection of hospital defects that could have been avoided shows that taking advantage of experience from other hospitals could have prevented death. Does the Minister not see the need to share experiences across hospitals in view of this?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e279	Well, Einstein has said something very wise about doing the same thing and expecting a different result. All that the representative refers to, and that others in his contributions have also pointed out, is that the situation that has arisen has developed over a long period of time when we have now had this notification system. It has not given the desired results. I don't think that just doing more of the same is the answer. We actually have to be willing to think about this area, and that's what the government and government parties do.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e284	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e291	On a case-by-case basis, the wrong posts in the wrong case were made here earlier, so I would like to thank the rapporteur and the majority of the committee for their cooperation in the matter. The notification system consists of anonymous notifications to the Health Directorate of events that have, or could have, caused significant damage to the patient. The messages are currently used to create a few learning notes for the risk ratio service and an annual report with total statistics. The scheme has not had a documented effect and resources can be better used through, for example: to extend the essential alert mechanism in the event of serious incidents. There is no evidence that the notification scheme has had an intended effect on indoor or cross-health enterprises, or on quality improvement and patient safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e298	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e314	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is Mr Mats A. Kirkebirkeland, on behalf of the rapporteur, Mr Sveinung Stenland.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e325	I would like to thank the Committee on Cooperation on this matter, on behalf of the rapporteur, Mr Sveinung Stensland. The most important thing in our health system is the patient. Any decision must therefore ensure that the patient is treated as best as possible. One important prerequisite for us to be able to have equal treatment for patients is that all follow the same principles of priority. If you don't have any principles on which to base it, then the priorities that are done on a daily basis are random. That is why we presented the 2016 Communication of Priorities, where a unanimous increase joined the three priority criteria proposed: utility, resource and seriousness. Prioritisation in healthcare is about allocating resources in healthcare to some areas and actions rather than others. The publication of medicinal product prices gives little insight into whether priority should be given to a treatment or a medicinal product. Prioritisation must take into account cost-effectiveness, where price is only one of several elements. Therefore, a new medicinal product can actually be cost-effective and even cost-effective, even if it has a higher price than the medicinal product it replaces. The changes made have led to the introduction of medicinal products for use in healthcare being better controlled than ever before. The most important thing in this case, however, is that transparency of medicinal product prices will not always benefit the patient. Accepting secret prices often gives us lower prices than we would otherwise have achieved if the final price was public. At the same time, we must remember that the maximum price of a medicinal product financed by healthcare has been published. It is only the discount that can be considered to be commercially confidential and exempted from the general public after a specific assessment. The purchaser then pays less than the maximum price. We all want the most transparency about the decision-making processes in health care. That is why we have both transparency about the principles underlying the choices made and transparency about the investigation and decision-making processes in the system of new methods. Norway is a small player in a global pharmaceutical market. A curious demand for transparency may mean that we miss out on discounts that are necessary for us to take on new innovations. This will not be served by Norwegian patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e346	Imagine you're seriously ill, and there's a medicine that can help you, but the doctor says it's too expensive. Where's the animal? No, you don't know – the public doesn't know. In those cases where there is in practice only one medicinal product used for a particular disease, the secret is that the public is not made aware of the social cost of medicinal products to entire patient groups. A single committee underlines the importance of transparency. Despite an agreement related to this, the government parties will today vote against the proposals that are being promoted. Public acquisitions of medicinal products for specialist health services have a long tradition in Norway. Since 1995, drug procurement cooperation, LIS, has been responsible for putting out medicinal products for special medical use. In the case of public tenders, unit prices of medicinal products have been open until 2016. This tradition is broken by Minister of Health Bent Höie's watch. In June 2015, the LIS business was transferred from the Hospital Apotetes to the Health Business Purchasing Service, HINAS. National agreements for medicinal products and other goods and services were then merged into one company. In March 2016, HINAS sent a letter to all health companies in the country notifying that unit prices should be confidential. The decision on the confidentiality of unit prices of medicinal products was taken by the directors of the regional health establishments in February 2017. The reason for the decision was that secrecy was necessary in order to comply with the Public and Administrative Act. The decision thus invalidated more than 20 years of transparent practice. The decision on the secrecy of unit prices has been criticised by a number of teams, including: The Directorate of Health, the Institute of Public Health, the Association of Pharmacies, the Association of Doctors and the Ombudsman-in-Office of the Civil Service. The press also plays a critical role as the people's watchtower. In order to verify the correct use of Community funds, journalists depend on access to information. Norwegian Journalists’ Team, Norwegian Editors’ Association and Norwegian Press Association agree that secrecy of pharmaceutical prices weakens the press’s ability to conduct such journalism and may point to more examples of important news journalism that it would not have been possible to make with today’s secretive practices. There is no empirical evidence that secrecy provides lower drug prices. In any case, transparency is a value in itself, as exemplified here: «Openness and transparency are fundamental to democracy. Transparency allows citizens to have greater influence in decision-making processes and is very important in maintaining general confidence in the political system.’.» This text is extracted from the Web pages of the Left. With that, I take up the suggestions that the Workers' Party is part of, and hope that the Left thinks about an extra time before we go to voting this afternoon.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e368	The representative Tuva Moflag has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e373	I can understand the desire for transparency, it's a good starting point in all governance. Competition surveillance points to the crucial role of effective competition in ensuring the lowest possible price of medicinal products and in facilitating the best possible innovation in the market. The Progress Party supports this starting point and believes that competition is an effective tool in all sectors. Whether or not to be transparent about medicinal prices is not a principle here, but an assessment of the competitive situation. The market is concentrated with a few major players. In such markets, the publication of prices will increase the risk of coordination between operators, thus increasing the risk of cooperation between operators. It may make it more difficult for health businesses to negotiate discounts because pharmaceutical companies are at risk of being pressured by other purchasers to make similar discounts. Norway would then appear to be a small market to offer discounts. Competition surveillance emphasises that when assessing the publication of prices, consideration must also be given to the costs of taking into account considerations other than those of competition. Transparency of medicinal product prices will not always benefit patients. In some cases this could result in higher prices. No one can prove that it is wrong through this case. Therefore, the Progress Party will consult the Competition Authority, and we will not impose full transparency on pharmaceutical prices. The most important thing for us is that the patient gets good treatment and proper medicine, and that the price of this is as low as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e386	Transparency about the price of medicinal products in public health is a very important matter. It's taken up by the Central Party's health-policy spokeswoman, Kjersti Toppe, many times, and we stand for transparency. There is a lot of debate, and not least Bergen's Official Journal has done an exemplary public information job in this case, and I am very much obliged to Bergen's Official Journal. What do the hearing bodies think? Who is it that doesn't want openness? Well, it's the pharmaceutical industry, it's the Competition Authority, and it's the Hospital Purchase HF, while those who are on the opposite side, who want transparency, are the Health Directorate, the Medical Association, the Pharmacy Association, the Medical Products Agency and the press organisations. Therefore, it is quite special that a user of the pharmaceutical industry's argument here from the government parties, when the pharmaceutical industry wants closure, and I expect that they want it because it serves their interests. The centre party is involved in detailed comments and two proposals for decisions, which have been thoroughly examined by the Committee. On comments and proposals, the Centre Party has been pleased to learn that the Workers' Party is now together with the Centre Party on common comments in the opposition, so now the Centre Party, the Workers' Party and the SV stand together in the Committee. The main pillars of the view of the Centre Party are that there was transparency about the prices of tendering until 2016. In secret, it is not possible for patients, the public and the press to test the country’s use of money in medicines, nor is it possible to verify compliance with the priority rules. Today's secret team was suddenly introduced in 2016. The law – i.e. the Public Public and Administrative Act – is the same as before and after 2016, and after this law, we had been open for more than 20 years before 2016. Confidentiality was introduced not as an amendment to the law or regulation but as an administrative decision of the purchasing bodies of the country. What is the situation in Sweden and Denmark? In general, transparency about prices for tendering, sometimes in negotiations, is secret. It is apparent from the report submitted by the four health establishments in February 2018. The proposal by the Centerpartiet and others is entirely in line with the situation in Sweden and Denmark. The setting is very special in my experience, because the government parties only have two very short sections with comments. One is the point that the prices of medicinal products can go counter-clockwise. As I have said, it's quite special, it's not documented in any other way. And the second point is that the government parties say that transparency is likely to require a change in law – a very special reason that it could require a change in law when transparency meant that we used the same law as the law today. It's an argument that doesn't stand for believers.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e403	If we look at the long lines, this is a matter of our democracy. That's what openness is all about. People's information is fundamental to a democracy. Here I would like to highlight the important role of the press – where access to information is crucial for critical journalism and public information. So the freedom of expression depends on access to information. Politically speaking, this is a matter of priorities, of course. This becomes particularly important in the coming years, when the balance between patients’ access to medicines and the issue of the effectiveness and economic efficiency of medicine is crucial in terms of our priorities. So freedom of expression and openness have a material function that relates to patients' lives and health. So the public has the right to know how the money is prioritised and redistributed. We must be allowed to know which professional assessments form the basis for health care priorities. An example that we have seen now concerns immunotherapy for cancer patients, where the decision-making forum for new methods claims that treatment is not cost-effective, but professionals do not have the opportunity to assess this. It is a matter of trust for us – trust in health care. For us, it is completely incomprehensible why the government does not even agree that it should be made transparent even after the negotiations have ended. Why Norway should be less transparent than our neighbouring countries is completely incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e412	I will be brief – perhaps too short for the representative of Lundtigen – but consider that we agree that in the case of medicinal product prices, there should be equal treatment across patient groups. We also agree on setting down some principles for this priority. We also agree on the best possible transparency about all health care decisions, including the purchase of medicines. The left will always work for more transparency in public processes. Transparency is our main defence for our democracy, and in order for us to be able to control that we distribute the resources of society fairly. Transparency strengthens the legitimacy of decisions, and should therefore be a general rule, even if secrecy is necessary in some cases, including: for the purposes of competition. I am pleased that the government is working for transparency that ensures equal treatment across patient groups and decision-making situations. We need clear and fundamental clarifications. It is very good that we have now received a prioritisation message to ensure a fair distribution of limited resources. The principle of maximum health for each krone counts strongly in this case. We record that the Competition Authority in this case also seems to pay attention to this. All decisions taken in healthcare must be well-founded and aimed at the best possible care of all patients. It has not always been given that the best guarantee for this is transparency, and this is particularly reflected in the development of the pharmaceutical market in recent years. The impact of transparency depends on the market situation. Sometimes industry requires secrecy in order to provide discounts in the price, which may be necessary for the provision of certain medicinal products. Sometimes secrecy is necessary to ensure optimal treatment for some patient groups. That being said, it must be possible for decisions to be taken and for secret drug prices to be made public after a while. I'm glad the Council of State will press for reprobability. I am pleased that he strongly claims that transparency in the investigation and decision-making processes is the necessary starting point, and I am pleased that the government has intensified international cooperation in this field. In addition, the Granavolden Declaration sets out the importance of openness and transparency for democracy. It shall apply to all people in all parts of society. A government that is part of the Left will always work to secure these starting points. In the health care system, we need to make sure that the patients are in focus and that they receive the best treatment. Then secrecy is sometimes necessary, but it should be the exception and not the rule.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e425	It is no secret that the Christian People's Party agrees with the proposers that transparency around public administration is generally an important societal asset, and that this also applies to the pharmaceutical industry. I would therefore like to stress that the Christian People's Party shares the intention that secrecy of medicinal prices should be the exception instead of the rule. Therefore, we will follow developments in the field, as we will not, of course, get there to weaken patients’ information needs and their confidence in health professionals. It is precisely the consideration of the patient's best that is raised by the Minister of Health in his response to this proposal for a representative. The Council of State refers to examples where the possibility of exempting the discount on a medicinal product price from the public has been crucial for the provision of important medicinal products to patients. It is the consideration of the patient who must be the most important in this debate, and if, exceptionally, the secrecy of discounts on medicinal product prices helps to give more patients access to the medicine they need, it must be taken into account. I also think it is worth remembering that the maximum price of medicines financed by the specialist healthcare service is publicly available information. So it is only the discount that can be exempted from the public after a specific assessment. But the Christian People's Party is going to follow developments further and make ongoing assessments of the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e434	There shall be maximum transparency and transparency around health care decision-making processes. This has been facilitated by the government, among other things. through the processes related to the introduction of new methods. In the system of new methods, there is transparency about the investigation and decision-making processes and the transparency of the principles underlying the decisions. The situation in the pharmaceutical market has given us a dilemma. The trend has been towards very high list prices by industry, but at the same time they are willing to negotiate large discounts, provided that the discount is hidden. A goal of full transparency may thus conflict with the objective of providing patients with rapid access to new medicinal products. This becomes evident in situations where purchases negotiate the price of new, expensive medicines. The industry offers good discounts, against the size of the discount being kept hidden. A requirement for full transparency could therefore lead to the fact that several medicinal products are not available to patients, because the high price indicates that the principles of priority are not being met. Spinraza is an example of a medicinal product that could only be offered after the health regions received a discount from the supplier. Therefore, a requirement of transparency in this situation may lead to the non-offering of the medicinal product. Many countries in Europe accept hidden discounts. So it's a dilemma that official list prices are not going to be real. I support the work for more transparency globally, but I will not sacrifice Norwegian patients' access to new medicines until the global market has changed. The Publicity Act, the Administrative Act and the Medicines Act provide for prices to be exempted from transparency. Business secrets shall be exempted from disclosure, as set out in: the first paragraph of Section 13 of the Administrative Act. It is the regional health enterprises that have to assess the issue of publicity within the framework of the law. I want to ensure patients fast and equal access to medicines, based on adopted principles of priority. I will not put the desire for transparency ahead of the possibility of giving patients quick access to new medicines. In my view, a unilateral requirement for transparency would not be for the benefit of patients and would imply that Norwegian patients pay a high price for Norway to take a special position on a question that needs to be resolved globally and internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e452	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e457	Through an article series in Bergen’s Official Journal, it has among other things. the health south-east has purchased treatment for the eye disease wet AMD by Aleris at a price of 200 million. kr, while the public can carry out the same treatment for 30 million. kr. The contested agreement has now been concluded. The recordings from the press organisations show that it would not be possible to make such cases now, in the light of the HINAS Decision of 2016. My question to the Council of State is this: does the Council see the value of the revelations these articles have led to, and what does he think about the lack of transparency going to make such revelations more difficult in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e464	As I said in my post: I also want the most transparency possible, also for the press into healthcare. It has been – and is – an important principle for me. Now the matter to which the representative refers is also a matter which Health South-East has worked before Bergen's Official Journal wrote about it, but it is a siding. One concludes with the crucial question when one is responsible for treating patients: Should the principle of transparency be set so high that one is also willing to say no to new treatment methods for patients? To that is my answer no.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e473	That really wasn't my question. My question was whether the Council of State sees the value of the revelations the articles have led to, and not least what he thinks about that lack of transparency will make it more difficult with such matters in the future. It was the press's opportunity to do their job, quite concretely, based on the HINAS decision in 2016, I wanted a comment from the Council of State on.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e478	That's what I also answered. Then it is that HINAS, in the same way as any other public body, has to deal with competition law. There's the information to be kept secret. I see that some have asked questions about the fact that this has been information that has been partially open in the past. There is no new phenomenon that a government also reviews the legislation and adjusts practices if one discovers that one has had a practice in the past where there is reason to ask questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e485	The claim from the government is that there is a higher price for transparency, and it is very special that the pharmaceutical industry supports the position that one should not have transparency. The Competition Authority supports the government, and in a chronicle in the Official Journal of Bergen on 20 October 2018 by Chief Executive Kurt Breke in the Competition Authority, he draws up two examples showing that the publication of prices has had an unintended effect. One is cement in Denmark and the other is gasoline in Chile. The Directorate-General for Health and the Agency will have open medicinal products prices. There are health professionals and economists who know the pharmaceutical market very well, because it is their job. My question is: why does the Council of State not listen to their own professionals, who have professional responsibility in this area, in terms of prices?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e494	I do, too, and there's a big difference between my position and the position of the pharmaceutical industry. I work for openness. I do that both nationally and internationally. I disagree with the pharmaceutical industry that we should have secret pharmaceutical prices. That's why I work internationally to fight that position. What we need to address today is whether Norway should raise the principle of transparency at a national level so high that the Norwegian patients pay a very high price for it, through the fact that new treatment methods will be used in Norway later, or not at all, because we will not have the opportunity to achieve the discounts that we get today by accepting that they are secret. It's also well documented internationally. The size of these discounts varies between 20 and 60 pst. the list prices as long as the contracts are secret.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e501	What is most comprehensive in this matter is that the government and the pharmaceutical industry agree. And what is also a fact through the report published by the four regional health companies is that what is the system in Sweden and Denmark is very close to what is the opposition's proposal here today. Still, the state councils are going against it. So we're putting up with a practice that is in line with the principles that apply in Sweden and Denmark. The second argument from the government parties is that having transparency will require a change in law. So we're talking about a change in the law of the administration and the law of the public – a change in the law that the government parties think is necessary in a case where there has been transparency until 2016. My question is: in the comments of the government parties, it says that it ‘will most likely require a change in the law’. I ask the Council of State to describe the content of a new law, which one believes it is necessary to come with to get transparency.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e510	As the representative is aware, it is those who are responsible for the purchase who are also responsible for ensuring that the purchase is within the limits of the laws and regulations adopted by the Stortinget. There has been a reassessment of the implications of legislation in this area, relating to the requirement to keep business secrets secret. It is an interpretation that those who are responsible for the purchases are also responsible for doing. If another legislation is to be adopted in this area, it must come from the Stortinget or from the government, but it must in any case be adopted by the government – and I assume, of course, that hospital purchases and other health care units relate to the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e515	I understand the time of legislation, that's not what's my problem, but the government parties have written that if you want transparency, it'll probably require a law change. When the government parties write like this in a vote, it is in consultation with the ministry, it is in consultation with the government council's will. So far, with the new government, we have no examples that what is happening in the Great Government is not entirely in line with the government's will. So my question is, what changes in the law do we have to make – a law that was good for 20 years, before 2016 – to ensure the transparency that one then does not have to have under the law today?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e520	That is what I also tried to explain to the representative in my previous answer. As the representative is well aware, even if we have legislation in Norway that has been unchanged for 16 years, situations often arise where those responsible for law management will, for example, have them. has assessed the law differently or incorrectly in the past and adjusts its practice. So the only way we can change this politically is to change the law, so the government parties are quite right in their comment, that if someone wants a different practice for those areas where one now practices secrecy of prices to comply with competition law, then the Storting does not answer that the Health Regions are going to break Norwegian law, then the answer is that the Storting has to change the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e528	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e535	Transparency in the healthcare system is fundamental to building confidence in the population, whether it's about the previous case, where we were concerned about patient safety, or about transparency about drug prices. There are major discussions today about which medicines you say yes or no, despite the fact that the government believes you have found a good solution to the question of transparency or not pricing. Medicaments give us great, unique opportunities in today's situation, but it also challenges us significantly. On the one hand, what we are discussing here now, which goes on prices, on the other hand, is lack of medicines, where we also see that the actors who produce medicines have a strong position, where, as a society, we feel that we are pressured to accept the conditions they set, where one risk is that there is only one alternative to choosing if one is to have a medicine that provides an effective treatment for some diseases and conditions. The director of the State Medicines Agency, Audun Hågå, told Dagens Medisin that industry requires secret discounts in order to avoid losses by infecting prices in other markets. It underlines how dependent we have become on the conditions imposed by the industry, which means that we are not able to control the market, but that the market is more governing us, which I believe is an unfortunate development. I also understand the arguments that we are a small country, but then I urge the Minister of Health to intensify the work around working with European and other international actors, whether it is about lack of medicines or about the possibilities of transparency around medicinal prices. For the reprobability of the agreements we conclude, a very important principle is, and it must apply whether it is about medicinal products or it is about other public procurement. I think the example of Tuva Moflag on wet AMD is a good example that it also serves the community when it is possible for the press and others to understand what kind of agreements they have entered into. During Höie's reign, there has been a very clear turn against more secrecy around these pharmaceutical prices, and I can't see that there has been more peace around the discussion about the medicinal product prices for that reason – on the contrary. So I also hope that the Minister and the government parties will take this more seriously than they are saying today when they do not support the opposition's proposals. The alternative is that trust in our healthcare system can be weakened over time, if it is not possible to abandon decisions that can be crucial for life and health.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e548	I sat and sat down a little bit on something that was said from the pulpit here by the representative from the Left, Carl-Erik Grimstad, who was inside this with the best health possible for each crown. But the point is that that's exactly what we're not getting, whether we get the most – and as best we can – health for our common money. Secret prizes mean that we don't know if it's being prioritised right. Politicians don't get information, the press doesn't get information, patients don't get information, and how should patients be able to complain about any lack of or mistreatment if they don't have access to information? In my opinion, it is completely wrong to claim that we get the ‘most health possible for each krona’ without access to information.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e553	It is incredibly important to contribute to the transparency of medicinal product prices. It is important for the press to be able to carry out its mission, it is important for the public, and it is not least important for patients. It is also a little special to note in this debate that there is actually a majority of the parties in this Chamber who express their support for a principle of transparency. There are several government parties that go up here and say they support such a principle, but there may be examples that transparency is not the best. I would then ask the representatives to look at the concrete proposal that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV have promoted in this matter. It says: ‘The government is asked, through its governance dialogue with health businesses, to ensure that unit prices and the total cost of new medicinal products are public. Any derogation from the principle of disclosure shall be subject to a specific assessment on a case-by-case basis.’;» Thus, one establishes a clear and clear principle of public disclosure, while also stating that, in some cases, based on a concrete assessment, other decisions may be taken. So if the representative Bekkewold and the representative Grimstad really think that one should base a principle of publicity, while at the same time opening up other assessments on a case-by-case basis, one should, of course, support the proposal that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV have promoted in this case. And that is the way that several speakers have argued that it is the pharmaceutical industry that supports the government in this matter. When the government tries to give the impression that practicing publicity could contribute to higher prices of medicines, it is the pharmaceutical industry that supports them in ensuring that there is secrecy. However, those who really need a public debate on pharmaceutical prices to keep pharmaceutical prices low are, of course, patients and their stakeholder organisations, who are aware that there is a public interest. This is a code and practice that we had in Norway for 20 years, until 2016, which has worked well, and which also works in our neighbouring country. There is no reason why it should not be practised. The problem here is that one has a government that, in cooperation with the pharmaceutical industry, wants secrecy and does not support our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e569	As I have said, the only argument of the government parties is that if we get transparency, it ‘probably will require a change in the law’. I challenged the Council of State to describe the problem of today's law in terms of transparency, and the Council of State did not come up with that. I would ask that some representatives of the position parties, the government parties, explain to us what is in their sentence. The representative of the Right here, Church birchland, says that publicity gives little insight. The representative Carl-Erik Grimstad says that there is a secret that is the exception, not the rule, and that it must be possible to follow a secret. As the representative Gülsvik said, I will draw attention to what is actually the proposal. For what is the processed proposal of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV, in proposals Nos. 1 and 2 just follow up on the need for derogations. That is quite in line with what both the Left and the Christian People's Party have said here in the Chamber. Then it's quite special that one doesn't follow up. As I have said, it is a practice contained in the two proposals that, as far as I can see, are close to what is practice in Sweden and Denmark. When one can't do that, that means there's something that's not said here. There are some arguments that are unsaid. Can't it get any clearer, so we can have a more direct discussion about it? The Christian People's Party says it agrees with the opposition, that's exactly the same wording. I can understand that there may be new arguments that make the Christian People's Party act in a different way and thus change its position, but it hasn't come here. It is not in the configuration. Then I am back to something that we discussed yesterday, namely that this government has pointed out that it would not act like the red-green government and vote against any proposal from the opposition. And then we'll get an example that that's what happens, sail if there's a good process in the committee, where the opposition in the committee changes their proposals, processes them, takes into account the hearings, comes out wiser. But it doesn't help. It looks like one with the Christian People's Party and the Left in the government is following up on what has been the position of previous governments: here it's going on – we're going straight on, no matter what we encounter. It's unwise.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e578	In this case, I had actually believed that there could be an opportunity for the government to be involved in the opposition proposal. There has rarely been such a distance between what the parties say on the platform and what you want to support in today's vote. Why is the value of transparency so strongly advocated when you don't want to demand it? The representative of Gülsvik has already referred to the wording of the proposal, so I will not. But the point is that this wording is completely in line with what the representatives stand up here and say they want. I think there is little reflection from the government parties, and especially the Right, on the decision taken by HINAS in 2016, and that a 20-year tradition of transparency is broken. You don't say anything about that at all. As I said in my main post, this is a change in how we work on these questions, which has happened at Minister of Health Bent Höie's watch. Another issue addressed in the submissions here is the role of Norway in a global market. But how will the market become functional if no one knows what's really going on in the market? Transparency and transparency are, in fact, important for us to have efficient markets. If Norway does not go ahead and demand transparency, who is what we think should do? Who's going to take the first step? When you talk so hot about openness, when you make those demands and use those words here, you should follow up with action.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e585	In this case, we see the consequences of having a majority rule where the majority in the Grand Duchy is no longer a majority when it comes to voting, because then those who must have disagreed are whipped in place, so that everything has been decided before the Grand Duchy and the Committee have really started their treatment rounds. Becquerading was about the Christian People's Party sharing the intentions of the proposers. It is so nice that he sympathises with the proposal we have made, but it does very little for the patients concerned, or for the right that the press and others have to see, when you still do not vote in favour. Then Becquerad was in his post saying that secrecy should exceptionally give access to medications, which he then defended. Well, to put it that way: if it had been exceptional, there wouldn't have been a need for this proposal, but we've seen in the last three years that the exception has evolved to become the rule. It is, in my view, an unfortunate practice, which I do not think will benefit patients in the long term. In this debate, the parties to the government have defended themselves that list prices are open, it is only the discounts that are secret. Then it was so interesting to hear Health Minister Höie when he mentioned these discounts, that they amount to between 20 pst. and 60 pst. Should have a drug that has a list price of 1 million. NOK, one would probably have a real price somewhere between NOK 400000 and NOK 800000. To what extent the list price then indicates some value for what the actual price is, I wonder. It will at least be very, very limited and provide little basis for writing good editorial issues about what we pay for different medicines and medicines. We just have to be honest that in this case, it's not the big crowd's will that seems to win through. Then the opposition's proposal probably had a majority. However, I hope that the government parties will remember the debate that is, for the development that has taken place in the last three years, is very unfortunate in my view and should not be allowed to spread. On the contrary, I have a expectation that the Minister of Health and the Government will deal with this with a greater seriousness than what has been done so far, if we are to have a long-term situation in which we have the opportunity to make some premises and not let the pharmaceutical industry control us completely.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e598	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e614	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that up to five lines of reply are given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e623	On behalf of the case-speaker, Sveinung Stensland, I would like to thank the Cooperation Committee on this matter. Openness of fees from the pharmaceutical industry to healthcare professionals is important in order to maintain the legitimacy of healthcare in the population. There is already a comprehensive regulatory framework to combat adverse interactions between health professionals and other actors. In addition to such formal legislation, cooperation agreements have been concluded between central actors such as the Medical Products Association, the LMI, the Medical Association and the regional health care providers. These agreements provide detailed guidance on how to cooperate between industry and healthcare/health professionals. Since 2016, the LMI has also published the financial transfers from the pharmaceutical industry to healthcare professionals in Norway. 76 pst. health professionals have agreed to such disclosure. In this case, the situation is fortunately such that the Medical Association and the pharmaceutical industry are some of them working to change the agreement on guidelines for cooperation and interaction precisely in order to achieve the objective of openness. We also confirmed this in our hearing, where it was clear that all the actors are some of them about changing the agreement between the LMI, the Medical Association and the League, so that he demands full openness. At the same time, it is worth recalling that all health professionals have a self-employed duty to ensure that they operate in accordance with legal and regulatory provisions and in line with guidelines and agreements at their specific workplaces. Employers, and in particular regional health professionals, also have an obligation to ensure that their employees comply with the guidelines and agreements applicable to the workplace and also with an obligation to facilitate this possibility for individual health professionals. I mean this case is a good example of good party collaboration. We are all certain that openness must be guaranteed, and nothing is better than that the parties themselves ensure this through their agreements.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e642	Actually, the debate on this matter is seen as an extension of the matter we have just debated, on transparency of pharmaceutical prices. We can keep going where we left off, what values should characterize our society. Transparency is important for confidence between our citizens and social institutions, but transparency is also important for the trust between the patient and health professionals. The medical association placed great emphasis on trust between the doctor and the patient in its contribution to the joint consultation we had on this matter and the previous case. I think what we see now, with the words used, and the choices one takes when it comes to voting, goes into a pattern. Last year, the Workers' Party promoted a proposal to avoid a mix of roles in healthcare. Then we asked for transparency related to beekeeping. At the time, too, there was agreement in the Committee's comments, but the proposals were defeated. So I really just have a wish for the government parties. When you stand here and talk about the value of transparency, whether it's in one or the other case, it's important that you also follow up when it comes to voting on the proposals that have been promoted. I'm addressing the suggestions the Workers' Party is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e653	The representative Tuva Moflag has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e658	I agree with the representative Tuva Moflage that this is a continuation of the previous debate, but when I look beyond the hall, there is an important difference, and that is that both the Christian People's Party and the Left have left the Chamber on health issues. Transparency is incredibly important, it is absolutely essential to gain confidence, and it characterizes the views of the Centre Party in this matter, as in the previous one. The centre party commends the initiative of the Medical Association, but nevertheless sees the need for a public scheme to achieve full transparency about the payments, because it is not only doctors but also other groups of health professionals receiving payments from the pharmaceutical industry. A new cooperation agreement will not prevent this information from remaining fragmented and not accessible to most people, and it is important to ensure availability and non-fragmented representation. This agreement is designed in such a way that pharmaceutical companies that are not members of an industry association, or companies that only manufacture medical devices, are also part of what we are talking about here. Governments focus on current legislation and guidelines, but current legislation and guidelines have not prevented several million dollars paid annually by the pharmaceutical industry to health workers from being kept hidden from the public. Therefore, the Central Party disagrees with the Council of State that the issue of transparency is an attitude issue to be left to the individual employee or company. It is an incredibly important issue we are discussing, because fees from industry – or from producers – go seamsily to the leading professionals, who in many cases are in the public service. It is the leading experts in the individual medical disciplines that are the most relevant industrial cooperation partners. These leading experts are often used in specialist groups of the company Hospital Purchase HF, which conducts drug purchases on behalf of all public hospitals. The expert groups shall draw up the competition documents for competitive tendering and decide on the basis of the results of the tenders which medicinal products are used in hospitals. Therefore, it is essential that there is transparency about economic ties, and that it must be ensured by means of a regulation that is governed by public law.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e671	What has been very interesting in this matter has been that the pharmaceutical industry has supported the SV proposal, but not the government. It says something about whether this government wants openness. Health professionals have a special role, and many have more roles in society. And in the different roles there is great power in their knowledge. In addition to direct contact with patients and medical prescriptions, healthcare professionals have different tasks that professionals also have in other contexts, such as: witnesses to legal proceedings, opinions in the media or through recordings and public hearings. Experts are also often used in the specialist groups of the company Hospital Purchase HF, which conducts drug purchases on behalf of all public hospitals. The specialist teams are developing the basis of competition for competitive tendering, and today health professionals have no obligation to publish the amount of money they receive from the pharmaceutical industry, even if they are employed at the same time in the public health sector. This is detrimental to trust, opens up abuse, and allows businesses with enormous commercial interests to have an adverse impact. When Norwegian health professionals receive a total of several million kroner in fees from the pharmaceutical industry, we believe, together with the rest of the opposition, that the least you can demand is that doctors working in or for the public health sector state that there is a conflict of interest. People in Norway must be able to rely on health professionals to make decisions based on subjects, not on private economic interests. As I said, we see that the pharmaceutical industry has agreed with us, and we also agree with the Medical Association that a model according to the Danish model would have been wise to use in Norway. I would also like to commend the initiative of the Medical Association, in which they have started work to achieve full transparency on payments by pharmaceutical companies with a view to ensuring this through cooperation agreements with the trade association. I believe this is an argument for a public scheme for full transparency about payments, not against. This should have been a simple matter to decide, but unfortunately we again see that both the Christian People's Party and the Left, who could have shared in securing this trust, have gone away from their previous statements – as they had in the Medisin of the Day – and do not support the proposal. It is disappointing to see that such an important principle can be reversed as quickly as it is basically about people’s confidence in healthcare.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e684	As the majority of the Committee points out, we have a comprehensive regulatory framework designed to prevent adverse links between health professionals and health care services and other actors. Cooperation agreements have also been concluded between actors such as the Medical Association, the Medical Products Industry Association and the Health Regions. The agreements provide detailed guidance for cooperation between industry and healthcare or healthcare professionals. For health regions, internal rules are also laid down for this type of cooperation. The proposers propose to establish an open register of public health professionals receiving fees from the pharmaceutical industry. I agree with the majority that it is uncertain whether the cost of operating such a register will be proportionate to the additional information you might get, compared to what you already get today. This is particularly true when it has been decided that health professionals employed by health businesses should report on all health professional activities – the change made in the Health Personnel Act § 19. I therefore support the majority’s assessment, namely that it would be more appropriate to base further work on existing legislation, systems and mechanisms rather than to set up a new register. As the majority of the Committee also refers to, Hospital procurement deals with problems related to the stability of external experts or specialist groups. As my letter to the Committee shows, I will follow up on the fact that health regions ensure that hospitals and health businesses provide guidelines on the sustainability rules and the impact that instability will have on the ability of external experts or specialist groups to provide advice. Guidelines and stability rules shall be made known to external experts and specialist groups and shall be used as a basis for the work they do for the purchase of hospitals. This means that the individual must carry out a stability assessment in each case in which he or she is involved. I therefore agree with what is also the committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e697	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e702	Now it is the matter of fees we debate, but I still want to put my question into a slightly broader framework. When we travel around, we are often told how important trust is for us to succeed in the contact between the patient and the whole system, and between the patient and the individual doctor, nurse, health professionals. How does the Council of State think that trust in patients can be maintained when challenged in several areas – whether it is about transparency about fees, pharmaceutical prices or beekeeping, as I mentioned in my article, on which the Workers' Party proposed last year? Can this challenge trust?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e707	Yes, if you don't have transparency, it challenges trust. That's why I'm so concerned that we have clear rules in this area, so that health professionals like, for example, if they have side-effects, they must report them to their employer. The employer also has an obligation to have an overview of it. This is intensified after you have seen that it has not been enforced in the way the law states. The same applies in the area currently under discussion, here agreements and systems are in place, and the law is also strengthened in this area. So it's enough that in this area we have a certain culture of transparency. If, for example: sees in medical journals and other medical publications, there is a tradition of stating whether a person has conflicts of interest. In that area, I think other sectors have something to learn from health care.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e715	I hear again that the Council of State stresses the value of openness, and that it may also have something to say to build trust between the patient and the system, and the patient and the individual treatment. But why not take another step? Why don't you fuck it up and make sure you can give trust even more space?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e720	There's a concrete assessment you have to make. It's not that one says this proposal is never going to be any of. What one has to make a concrete assessment of is: does it want to set up a public register to be the right tool for creating more transparency? It is one that has to be assessed, even against the cost and what is required. We've made an assessment of that, and we're saying that we don't view it as the most nearby, the most effective tool now, to create more transparency. But it's not about you disagreeing with the goal or saying that this is never going to be any of it. It's a concrete assessment, right now, of that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e731	There is a lot of experience in this area, there is a lot of experience with economic links that is not good. There has been a theme to clean up for a long time. The Council of State says in its letter that ‘it must be said to be good enough in all respects’. The term ‘mainly’ is a recognition that there is a problem here. The Council of State says that it should be improved by explaining the rules on stability and that one does not want the opposition's proposals based on cost assessments. It's especially that one won't take away the doubt, so that we get a new situation here, and that's the economic arguments that have to be decisive. Why does the Council of State place so much emphasis on the economy in this case?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e738	Economy is about looking economy up against the impact of the proposal. There is every reason to believe that the establishment of such a public register will require some resources. There is reason to ask questions about having such a register will give the desired effect as long as we already have a very clear law in this area. When one already has an obligation to provide this kind of information, one then believes that those who today are evading that obligation would feel the obligation to act in, for example. such a register as more burdensome than the obligation already existing in it? So the question is simply: would this have solved the problem, or do we have to work in other ways to solve the challenges that I fully agree with the representative Lundtägen that we still have in this area? Our answer now is that we need to continue working with other solutions. And then once in the future we'll see if we have more faith in this answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e745	Once again we have a proposal from the opposition that has been worked out through the committee's proceedings. The Council of State says that we have a «very clear law». That is an approximate wording. The Council of State says that it should be improved by setting out the rules on viability, sending out circulars, and there should probably be meetings and follow-up among a number of people. It's the way out of that. We say that one should have an open and searchable register managed by an administrative body governed by the Ministry of Health and Welfare, for example. The State Medicines Agency – a clear and unambiguous solution to the issue, so that all actors know what they have to do with, which involves the formation of a marine environment. Why does the Council of State not choose to make such a simple arrangement, which everyone can deal with in a simple way because it is legal and right?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e754	Just because I'm not sure if it's as simple as the representative Lundtägen wants it to, because a register has no value if you don't register anything in it. At present, health professionals have an obligation to report on all health professional activities. One could have established such a register with an obligation to record this type of information in that register, but if the same persons who avoid the obligation they have today had also avoided the obligation to register it in that register, one would not have come any further than one is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e759	As the Council of State is certain to know, the newspaper Dagens Medisin has reported that the amounts paid by the pharmaceutical industry to health professionals who refuse to consent to publication are increasing. In 2017, the amount was SEK 7,5 million. kr. At the same time, the Council of State points out that we have a good enough regulatory framework and that it is positioning work that needs to be done. Obviously, we do not have enough legislation when it is possible to avoid registration for any health professionals. Out of curiosity, I wonder why the Council of State does not consider this proposed improvement in the legislation as part of the solution, while at the same time working on attitude work.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e766	I fully agree with the representative that this is a problem. That's really not what the discussion is about. The question is whether the proposal made by the opposition is a good answer to that problem. It is our opinion that it is not now, and that we have a number of other work going on that we believe is more effective to improve this situation. It's a real disagreement. It's not about one being fundamentally opposed to such a register, or thinking for all time that this will be wrong, but one believes right now that it's not the right way to solve this problem, and the proper use of resources to make this problem smaller.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e771	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e787	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that up to five lines of response be given to posts by members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e796	The interaction reform gave municipalities a significant increase in tasks and increased responsibility for primary health services. Reform is among the largest tasks that municipalities have had to deal with. It was a demanding promise, not least for the small municipalities with a limited environment of competence. The Minister of Health and Care behind the reform, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, stated that an ideal municipality size for the interaction reform was 30 000 inhabitants. Some of the objectives of the interaction reform were a reduction in sleep time in the specialist healthcare service, improvement of the acute/immediate assistance provision, increased attention to public health work and prevention efforts in municipalities, and enhanced and potentially more flexible interaction between health enterprises and municipalities. This is what you call hairy targets, targets that are solved very differently among our 422 municipalities. Not least, I want to ask whether municipalities are good enough for prevention efforts, helping to strengthen public health among the population. The interaction between hospitals and municipalities has also been very demanding. This responsibility rests not least on the hospitals themselves. There is no doubt that the reform has an improvement potential among all the actors involved. It is also a consequence of the great scale of the reform. At the same time, a follow-up evaluation carried out by the Norwegian Research Council shows that municipalities and health businesses have largely loyally followed up the intentions of the cooperation reform and sought to realise them. A number of measures have been implemented over the seven years of the reform, including: to improve the transitions and division of work between hospitals and municipalities. The Primary Health Communication and all the measures resulting from this Communication have been important together with the Public Health Programme, Competencelift 2020, recruitment of psychologists in municipalities, strengthening health and school health services, etc. All these actions have been carried out to strengthen municipal health and care services, in line with the intentions of the interaction reform. In its opinion on the matter, the Council of State informs of a number of other measures taken to provide a basis for assessing the best ways of taking another step further. One of the upcoming measures is the National Health and Hospital Plan, which is planned to be presented to the Stortinge this autumn. In other words, a number of measures have been implemented that we believe will be implemented by the representative. Therefore, the Government parties do not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e809	I'm assuming that the Senterparteen zeil will explain the proposal in more detail, but it's so that we red-green together end up on this. We want an evaluation. I know – and this has also been described by the Council of State in its letter to the Committee on 26 October last year – that there is a lot to do on many fronts, but an evaluation I think would have seen the whole in a better way than is now stated, that we do not get a case of our own for the Stortinget, but that it should be part of the national health and health plan. There's a lot to go in. I belong to a very dynamic party, and we're always looking for improvements, even in our own designed political solutions, which others have also had their fingers a little bit along the way. Health Minister Höie has been with the entire government and is within his sixth year, so when the Council of State writes that the interaction reform has not responded to the expectations, I would say, expressed with condote, that the Council of State has well an ice of responsibility for that sea. I would like to hear what the Council of State is actually going to do, what we can expect in the National Health and Sickness Plan. For it must be a powerful instrument when it is described that such an important reform, which so many are behind and believe to be a good idea, has not responded to expectations. The trade union is one of several who has recorded the hearing. They say that it is essential that municipalities have sufficient finances and competence to carry out more specialised, complex patient tasks, and that this seems to be deficient today. I fully agree with that. I allow myself to remember that in the Workers' Party's alternative budget we have over 5 billion. kr – in another way, over 5000 million. kr – more to municipalities and to specialist health services than the majority of the population has gone by. One cannot ignore the fact that so much money could also be useful lubricants when it comes to making the interaction reform work in a better way, so it is a tip for the sitting government. A little bit of money in the system, in addition to other good ideas, I think I would have done and also had a lot of other positive effects, without the time allowing me to draw the long, long list right now. On behalf of the minority in the Committee, I would like to make two proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e820	The representative, Tore Hagebakken, has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e825	The interaction reform has not worked properly. In many ways, one experiences this as a saving reform for hospitals, which has transferred more and more tasks to the municipal health service, without the local authorities being given the resources needed to take over these tasks. According to the Riksrevision, too little is known about the quality of patient care in the municipalities, and here I would point out the Stortinget's view that the cooperation on patients who need help from both the municipal health services and hospitals is not good enough, and municipal emergency services are not used to a large extent as a substitute for hospitalisation. Local authorities' obligation to pay out-of-print patients has led to shorter hospital lay time, and municipalities have in many cases been responsible for particularly ill patients. At the same time, there has been no systematic escalation in the capacity and competence of the municipal health service. It is not safe when the government has recently launched more grips that will increase the pressure on the municipal health service to do more. Among other things, the weighting of daily treatment was reduced in the effort-driven funding system now before the New Year. The sum of this makes it more profitable for hospitals to cut the extras in bedtime. In addition, local authorities have been paid for ready-to-write patients, including before drug treatment and psychiatry, although both the local government sector, professionals and users have expressed concern that municipalities have sufficient capacity and competence to take over these patients. When health professionals cut several places in the country in the daily supply of district psychiatric centers, something we can now see in both Health More and Romesdal and Sjukehuset Inland, this becomes a bad backstop in the government’s performance. In his hospital speech earlier this year, the Minister of Health warned that interaction should be the theme of the new national health and health plan. He said that now the municipalities and hospitals should become partners and not parties. It's a nice word game, but it doesn't solve the challenges of the system and the community health service, which require a boost to be able to take over all the new tasks, and not least treat patients who are being discharged from hospitals ever before. If one thing the health service needs, it is just such an evaluation as one would like in the proposal for a representative in this matter, which can give us an answer as to why the cooperation reform does not work as it was intended to do, and which can be followed up with measures that allow the reform to function and develop further, in line with the good intentions it was originally intended to pursue. By doing so, I refer you to the suggestions that the Central Party is in.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e842	The interaction reform should give us better cooperation between different levels of healthcare. It is easy to agree that most services should be moved closer to people, but we do not get it – more and more tasks and more demanding patients are being moved to the municipality without at the same time following money. If we are to succeed in good health services where people live, it must be accompanied by money, resources and much better coordination than this government has achieved. The examples of failed task transfer are many. In the area of drugs and psychiatry, provision in municipalities has not been strengthened as daily space is reduced. It is planned for an ever-previous return from the country's maternity wards, while only half of the country's municipalities have employed a midwife. Ambulance services are charged with greater responsibilities at the same time as they are centralised. The lack of nurses and health professionals has more than doubled since 2015. In 2018, the National Audit Office provided a report on the quality and availability of care for the elderly, which addresses serious criticisms of patient safety deficiencies in the care of the elderly. We can't pretend that the fixed crisis doesn't exist, that the fixed doctors haven't got more jobs than they should, or that it's not hard to recruit new fixed doctors. Shorter hospital lay time has led to heavy patient liability being shifted to permanent doctors, but without increasing the capacity accordingly. According to the National Audit Office, the increase in medical years has been three times as large in hospitals as in the municipalities – despite the interaction reform. Today, the government parties are voting against an evaluation of the cooperation reform. For the autumn we get a national health and hospital plan, but without a government that is willing to make an evaluation on the table and on the ground, and that is very unfortunate. A power cap is needed to strengthen the provision of health services in municipalities. It is done through a strong strengthening of the local economy, the willingness to facilitate much better coordination and to ensure that it is attractive to work in the community health service. None of this has shown this government the willingness to do so far, and today's decision does not change it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e853	I am pleased that there is a great deal of excitement that there is a need for further interaction. The interaction reform has not met expectations. There are still many challenges in creating the whole and coherence of services — with the resources available. According to the adjustment, the nurses’ association shows, among other things: that the interaction reform has contributed to the development of services only to a limited extent. I agree with that. The instruments of the reform led to the fact that those who are going to cooperate across hospitals and municipalities too much regarded each other as legal parties. By doing so, I believe that statutory agreements largely regulated cooperation. In many ways it became a negotiating culture – not a cooperation culture. What we need is collaboration as partners to create good and safe patient paths. The question ‘What is important to you?’ must be the starting point for a well coordinated service provision for the individual patient. Therefore, interaction will be a central theme of the next national health and health plan, coming to the autumn. We need to facilitate better conditions for professionals to provide coordinated services. Then we have to learn from the best, both nationally and internationally. We need to change forms of work, culture and interaction. We need to apply technological solutions so that treatment and follow-up can be done at home to a greater extent. Hospitals need to become more outgoing, and the close municipal services need to become more important for patients. Competence and information must be shared more effectively than today. The Ministry of Health and Welfare is now working to gather experience on interaction and get input into how this work can be carried out in a good way. We have dialogue with KS, and we have received input from user and professional associations, from health companies and from two own advisory groups. Evaluation and reports from research communities and the department's offices on the interaction reform are also part of the knowledge base. I am sure that we have an overall and good knowledge base to take the interaction one step further. There is no need for a new and time-consuming evaluation. Now we are going to make it possible for actors in all parts of healthcare to contribute together to the creation of integrated and coordinated services for patients. I will come back to this when I present the new national health and health plan for the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e866	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e871	It is good, when we do not get this evaluation, that interaction is at least given a great deal of space. I notice that the Council of State in the letter also uses the term ‘sustainability’ in the healthcare system. It is good that there is considerable space in the national health and hospital plan. Governments are talking about a good knowledge base. But it also wants the Storting to have, it's important for the Storing. This should be taken into account by the Council of State in its work on this plan. Then I have to ask at the end: what will be the main steps for the reform to meet the expectations of the National Health and Hospital Plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e880	Firstly, the evaluation has been carried out. We have had an evaluation of a total budget of 41 million. kr administered by the Research Council over five years. I would recommend that the Committee read the report of the six main research projects under the Research Council on the evaluation of the cooperation reform, which covers all aspects of the reform and provides a very useful knowledge base for the work to be carried out. They are beautifully assembled in one place. The title is EVASAM. In the National Health and Hospital Plan, the main thing I just said is that we're going to go away from an idea that a person gets to interact by looking at each other as economic and legal partners, to work together as partners around the individual patients and their course.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e888	When the Council of State states that the interaction reform does not correspond to expectations, I have to ask the Council of State, which has been the Council of State for a long time during Erna Solberg's reign, i.e. almost six years: how much of the responsibility for us unfortunately being in that situation is taking the Council of State and the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e893	One can always do things better. I believe that it is now time to take a step further and see if we can interact by using other instruments than those that were introduced just before I took over as the Council of State. These were instruments prepared by the previous government, instruments that were partly supported by the Stortinget and partly not supported by the Stortinget government. One of the instruments against which today’s government parties opposed that time was municipal co-financing. The evaluation that I referred to through the Research Council showed that it also had no particular effect, and therefore it was terminated by this government. So much has happened on the interaction side since then, among other things. and not least related to what is now done by introducing package trajectories that are transferred to municipalities. I probably have more faith in that kind of thinking: looking at the patient sequences more than just spending money and juice.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e900	Then I would like to ask the Council of State, referring to what I said in my own post – I think it was a pretty good post: I was talking about community economics, and I was talking about hospital economy. I remember that when we, the Council of State and I signed, were together in the Health and Care Committee – it was a good time – we were both tall and dark, compared to one having to go in with 12 billion. kr more over a four-year period. I assume that the Council of State agrees that one is significantly in deficit on the part of the government. To what extent does the Council of State think that a proper municipal budget and a proper hospital budget, rather than going on a steady blush, could have contributed to good interaction?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e905	I agree, of course, that money is important. That is why I am pleased that both the hospital economy and the municipal economy are better now than when the Workers' Party crashed. That's good, and that's a good starting point for providing good services. But some of the main idea, at least as I remember from these debates at the time the representative and I sat in the committee and former councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen presented the interaction reform, was just trying to get away from a thought that there was only more money that was the answer to all the health challenges, but that it was about more basic things. There was some of the whole idea behind the interaction reform, which got broad support, precisely as a step on the way to creating a sustainable health service as well as, in the next round, a sustainable welfare society in Norway. So I agree that we're going to need more money and people, but that can't be the answer alone to the challenges we're facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e914	I feel that the Minister of Health is now basing all the answers in the interaction between hospitals and municipalities to be resolved through a national health and hospital plan. In my home municipality, Women's Center, where Valen Hospital is a significant part of Health Fonna's specialist health services within mental disorders, the municipality sees that there are major challenges to interaction and further follow-up of patients after printing. Why does the Minister for Health not take the municipalities seriously in securing health services in the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e919	Well, I'm taking the municipalities seriously and helping to ensure, not least, services in the area of drug and mental health in the municipalities. In the last two years, the number of annual work in the field of drugs and mental health in municipalities has increased by over 2000. These include: a result of the cooperation of government parties on a contingency plan in the field of drugs and a prioritisation of mental health, not least in children and young people. That is why, unlike a few years ago, municipalities are now offering a wide range of services in both mental health and alcohol, not least to children and young people. We're not done with that work, but it's a good start, and the municipalities have to be able to give this patient group an even more primary health offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e926	I just want to follow up on the way the Council of State looks back at the National Audit Office's report on the interaction reform, where drugs and psychiatry are being developed. The National Audit Office is very clear that the provision of municipal services has not been adequately strengthened as day-to-day space is reduced in the specialist services. How can the Council of State defend the continuation of the reduction of daily supply in psychiatry, as we can now see at DPS, especially in Health More and Romesdal and Hospital Inland?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e933	The withdrawal of daily services does not mean the withdrawal of specialist health services. On the contrary, that means that the specialist health service should work out where people live, in the municipalities, in teams with colleagues from the municipalities. That's what we see is the way to work that gives the best results for the sickest patients. About 1 per million of Norway’s population — about 4,000 people — have extensive problems with drug use and mental health. These are the ones that have the greatest challenges and that were often long-term patients in the past. When they get that kind of team -- some call it the ACT team, some call it the FACT team, I'm not so very concerned about what it's called, but I know that it works -- one sees that a get reduced number of insertions, reduced use of forced labour and a significant life span for these patients. That's what the future is, and not that as far as possible is going to be as far as possible in 24 hours.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e938	The cord shift is over. The following speakers also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e945	The intentions behind the interaction reform are very good. I think a lot of people want to be able to be treated quickly and properly near where they live, in their municipality, whenever possible. At the same time, we need to be open to look at what we are not in goal, in terms of the interaction reform. I can take three examples from recent cases that we have dealt with in the Health and Care Committee, to show why it may be wise to make some adjustments and why some evaluations can be learned. One case goes to post-protection and rushes. There we had an overall opposition that offered suggestions and demands to improve post-protection. We see that many are successful while they are in treatment through the specialist health service, but then they come out to the municipalities, and then that network is not where they need to succeed, and then they crack in the worst case, and then it's back in new treatment. It's neither good for them, nor for the community's use of funds, that you end up in an eternal dance because you can't interact well enough for this group. Another matter is rehabilitation. Not long ago, we had a case from Rogaland with the closure of an offer for carbon separators in Egersund. The municipalities said they would take responsibility, but it was almost a rapporteur's appeal in Rogaland who said that they were not well enough able to take that responsibility yet. We, as big-scale politicians, should take this seriously. The third example I want to mention is mental health protection and psychiatry – a matter that we have recently been dealing with – where we see that there have been a reduction of 2,500 beds in the last 20 years. At the same time, municipalities also say here that they do not have the competence or the economy needed to address all the complex challenges that have been transferred to municipalities as a result of these changes. The government will not even stop and wait for a new national health and hospital plan to address this issue thoroughly, but will open up to continue the kind of degradation despite the signals coming from the municipalities. Unfortunately, I think we see a pattern in which there is an economy that is the rationale for the cuts in specialist health services, not necessarily professionalism. It seems that the specialist health services are forced to ask the question: Can we send this bill to the municipalities? This is not a good basis for successful interaction reform. Municipalities and specialist health services must be given financial muscles to achieve interaction reform in the best possible way, otherwise patients become losers. It takes the Workers' Party seriously. State Council Höie says that the interaction reform has not met expectations, and at the same time he adds that we do not need more evaluation. Well, after Bent Höie has been Minister of Health for about six years, we must probably also expect that there is time for action to get the interaction reform into the path we want.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e962	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e978	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, the opportunity be given to the replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government. In addition, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e989	Various studies show that 15-20 pst. of children and young people aged 3 to 17 years have significant health problems. For as many as 8 pst. is so serious that it meets the criteria for mental illness. In the case we are now discussing, the proposers have proposed that the government should take action to strengthen cooperation between the psychiatry and the school health service. It is a co-ordinated committee that underlines the importance of availability, early interventions and low levels of mental health provision. The matter has been well dealt with in the committee and five written hearings have taken place. It is the governmental parties that are in charge of the vote, where it is proposed that the proposal should not be adopted. And with that, I take off the case rapporteur's hat and go straight on to my post from the party. Too many children and young people don't get help when they need it. Small challenges can grow into major problems without the help being in place. An overburdened school health service and a tough community economy make many children and young people face a closed door. It's a threat to society, but it's also a threat to the individual. All students should have the opportunity to go into an office and get help when they need it. It sounds so simple – a lot of people at work and short lines between the BUP and the school health service, close ties, so that children and young people get help when they need it – but what sounds so simple makes the government difficult in practice. Because in practice, the funding system prevents children and young people from getting the best help when they need it. Intervention-driven funding provides links to employees of the BUP. All work tasks have a code for funding. No code - no funding. The BUP explains it so precisely itself, that when they want to be out in schools, want to be where children and young people are, it brings less money in. It is then the system that needs to be changed – not children and young people and not patients. The school health service should have a right of reference for the BUP, and if the help is available, we must give the professionals the time and confidence they need. I want to bring up the proposals that we have in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e1004	The representative Elise Björnebeck-Waaagen then brought up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e1009	When children and young people are struggling with mental distress and suffering, early intervention is very important. Health and school health services have a unique position to address these problems. If you tackle a problem early, it's easier to solve it before the problem grows too big. This is why we have escalated the funds for health and school health services by over 1.3 billion. kr since we took over. In the 2019 budget, there are 877 million. NOK in the municipal framework and SEK 430 million. kr of earmarked grants. This has been a time shift for health stations, leading to an increase of 975 yearly works for 2013–2017. Better availability and greater competence lower the threshold for seeking help. It's only when the help is actually available to children and young people that we can talk about a really low threshold offer. Therefore, throughout the lifetime of Mestre, the government’s strategy for good mental health, it was decided that the government should assess whether the purpose of health care should be extended to include treatment and follow-up for both mental and somatic conditions. This will lower the threshold to get help even more. In addition, there will be a need for more cooperation with the specialist healthcare service. Locally, there are already many good examples of well-functioning cooperation between children’s and youth psychiatry and school health services. More than half of the municipalities have now established the Family House, Family Centres and Adult Theatres, which gather more services for children and young people, and ensure better cooperation and interaction. It is important to support the good cooperation methods that are spreading in municipalities and specialist health services. Guidance, outreach and community teams across services and levels are effective methods that for many children, young people and families mean that proper help comes faster, and that there is greater involvement and influence over what is happening. Other gains are enhanced interaction and transfer of competences between services and more efficient use of resources. However, it is important to point out that municipalities already have a responsibility to coordinate their services, but that they are initially free to organise their services as they see fit. This will vary from place to place in Norway. Therefore, imposing a single model on municipalities or establishing the basis for all cooperation models in health and school health services is not a good solution. For those municipalities that succeed in providing good assistance to children and young people, they take as a starting point children and young people and set up their own needs, make efforts early, are familiar with each other’s responsibilities and offers, and have established good practices for the interaction and coordination of assistance across sectors and levels of administration. However, the organisation appropriate for each municipality should be determined by the municipalities themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e1020	Psychiatric disorders are among the major health and social challenges in Norway. Although the large majority of children and young people in Norway have good, many suffer from mental problems during childhood and youth. The personal consequences are great and can lead to a lack of education and work life. For some developers it becomes serious states. The priority selection, or Norheim selection, promoted the prevention of depression in young people as a prevention measure that society should give far higher priority to. The centre party would therefore follow this up and see that the services today are not too co-ordinated. With this proposal, we will ensure stronger cooperation between child and youth psychiatry and a strengthened school health service. In Nord-Trøndelag they have a good model for this, where the county has worked with an extended school health service. The core is that an early aid for psychosocial problems in the secondary school, in close cooperation with the BUP and the scholastic community. In practice, this means that the BUP is present in continuing schooling for up to two days a week. In addition, efforts are being made to raise the level of skills required for further education. The proposal has been widely supported by hearing authorities. The Medical Association, the Association of Nurses and the Country Group of Health Sisters indicate that there is a great need for better cooperation. The project in Nord-Trøndelag is a good example of a common arena where the BUP and the school community can discuss issues so that more vulnerable young people can be helped more quickly. I believe that the need for increased cooperation between the BUP and the school health services is well documented, and that it is time to develop similar cooperation models across the country. The point is that it is the school health service, which follows the school environment and the individual student over time, which is best able to prevent easier mental problems and contribute to rapid treatment, so that the plagues do not develop into more serious or chronic suffering. The government party refers to the government's mental health strategy, Master all his life. The centre party believes that there is little in this strategy that deals with increasing cooperation between the municipal health services and the BUP, and that there is no concrete action to strengthen this interaction. Package trajectories are also not the solution to this challenge, as they will apply to patients already assigned to treatment. Our proposal is to ensure early-stage cooperation on elephants with intoxication and mental disorders and to facilitate systematic and constructive cooperation, so that the school health service is even better at preventing and contributing to rapid treatment at an early stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e1035	I would like to start by thanking the representative, who is drawing attention to cooperation between the BUP and the school health service. This is important, and I share the concern of the proposers for children and young people with mental problems. It's particularly worrying that between 15 and 20 pst. children and young people are plagued so much that it affects their way of working in everyday life. I'm also worried that these are problems that follow many for the rest of my life. The rate of suicide, especially among men, is a serious problem, which unfortunately has not diminished over the years. The Committee is united in its wish to see young people met in the best possible way by children’s and young people’s psychiatry and school health services. We know it's important to get help with mental problems early. Long-term mental distress can lead to poor quality of life for individuals, and the cost to society will be high if problems are not taken seriously — and even higher if measures are pushed out on time. The left will enhance the competence of mental health in the school health service and integrate the PPT in its work. Psychiatric disorders are something that affects about half of us sometime in life. The left not only sees the need for cooperation when problems arise, but also wants good measures to prevent mental distress. The government recognises that there are challenges to interaction between different help agencies. Furthermore, good interaction is a prerequisite for the aid to be as effective as possible and of the best possible quality. The Granavolden Declaration states that better health care for children and young people is an important area of government activity. This can be seen, among other things. in the government's gradual escalation of funding for school health and health care of more than 1.3 billion. kr. In concrete terms, improved cooperation between the BUP and the school health service refers to a package for the investigation and treatment of mental health protection for children. The aim of this is to strengthen cooperation between municipal and specialist health services by assigning each child under treatment to a separate contact person. The proposal that has been put forward is unlikely to be adopted. Nevertheless, I can reassure the proposers that the government is already working well to improve cooperation and to create the best possible offer for children and young people. This is a work that also has a lot of attention in our many municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e1048	Too many children and young people walk around and have hurt their lives. The rapporteur points to studies showing that 15-20 pst. have serious problems, and 8 pst. have very serious problems. It is then clear that it is important that we recognise that there are challenges to the interaction between different help agencies that make the help less effective and that the quality is lower than it could have been with good interaction. Now, both professional and political work is being done to find the best ways to provide vulnerable children and young people with seamless assistance. It pointed to the Granavolden Declaration, and it is clear that better services for children and young people are an important area of government activity. In particular, health centres have an important responsibility, and I welcome the commitment to a high-quality multidisciplinary health centre and school health service, which will provide good access to help and support for children and young people and their parents, and that work continues. From 2014 to 2019, the government has gradually escalated funds for health centre and school health services of more than 1.3 billion. kr. It has happened in budgetary negotiations with the Christian People's Party. I am pleased that there is an increasing awareness and attention to the need for coordinated services and overall follow-up of children and young people who need extra help. In this way, I would also like to praise the initiative of the Centre Party in this matter and just stress that it is working well and continuously with this in the government. In the near future, an obliging escalation plan will be presented for children and young people’s mental health, and this is a plan we believe will provide a good basis for further strengthening the important prevention work in municipalities. One of the things that needs to be done here is to: look at how one can support and disseminate the good cooperation methods across levels, in order to ensure more holistic services for children. But we have to recognize that this is a major challenge. As I said, too many children and young people are walking around and hurting their lives, and that is something we must take seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e1061	Children and young people’s health is largely created in arenas other than healthcare. For this reason, prevention efforts need to be focused more on where children and young people are — as in school and kindergartens. Health and school health services are in a unique position to prevent minor mental disorders and to contribute to faster treatment, because the service is available where children and young people spend much of the day. For this reason, it has been an important goal for government parties to increase the capacity and availability of health and school health services, and for the last five years it has been granted more than 1.3 billion. kr for this purpose. Representatives are calling for stronger cooperation between the paediatric and the school health services. For many families, better cooperation between services and levels can mean that they get faster help when they need it, but also that they feel that the help is related. Improved long-term and cross-cutting cooperation can also provide more efficient use of resources and strengthen interaction. Several good examples of close cooperation between municipal services and children’s and young people’s psychiatry have been seen in the work on the forthcoming escalation plan for children and the mental health of young people. Guidance, joint consultations and teams across services and levels are effective methods that enable those in need to receive early assistance. For example, Health Fonna, in cooperation with all the municipalities in the health area, has created children and the health care of young people, with interactions across municipalities and specialist health services. It is important to support the good cooperation methods that exist, but I do not think it would be useful to impose on municipalities a single model that needs to be anchored in health and school health services. The organisation appropriate for each municipality will often vary between municipalities. The measures we have already taken must also have time to work. Among other things, the effort-driven funding mechanism now provides for DRG counting for cooperation and follow-up meetings with partners outside the specialist health service. Another important measure is the package sequence that is now being introduced in both mental health and drug use, and that we see yielding results. All children in a package process will have their own coordinator, who will ensure the coherence and continuity of the treatment process. The intention is not to fail in the transitions between services, as we unfortunately too often see it do.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e1076	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e1081	It has not been long since the Right held its national meeting, and it was a pleasure that we could read that there was a majority in order for the school health service to have the opportunity to refer to the psychologist. Now it happens by chance that we're going to vote for this in the hall today. Will the government parties vote in favour of the proposal that even the Right has adopted at its national meeting, or will they once vote in favour of the Labour Party's proposal in the matter, a proposal we have with the Central Party and the Socialist Left?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e1087	Firstly, I am not the one who can answer for what the government parties vote for and not in Stortinget, they have to answer for themselves. But I think the representative and the rest of the Stortinget have come to realize that, as a general rule, the government parties do not vote on proposals made by the opposition in areas where the government is working. This does not necessarily mean that one disagrees with the proposals, but simply that there is no reason to vote in favour of proposals in areas where the government is working with, for example. — in this case — a separate escalation plan for the mental health of children and young people. It is quite right that the Court’s national meeting adopted a large and comprehensive — and, in my view, very good and ambitious — resolution on the mental health of children and young people. But in this area, as in all other areas, it will also be that even if the Right has adopted something, it is not always what immediately becomes the government's policy. That's something that we also want to work with.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e1094	I note that the Government and the main and leading party have adopted policies in this area, but that there is currently a lack of either implementation capacity or willingness to implement. The result is the same. The Government has introduced several manning standards, including: in schools and kindergartens. But it is a refusal to introduce staffing standards in the school health service, despite the fact that in many places it is not at the level that it should be. Then I wonder, what is the fundamental difference between the government's recruitment standards in some areas, such as school and kindergarten, and staffing standards in the school health service?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e1101	The question of staffing standards in the school health service has been assessed by the Health Directorate and is not recommended. Then, of course, different other measures are being taken to improve the coverage of this service. The most important thing we do there is to enable municipalities to employ more people in the school health services and in health centres. We've also contributed most to that. During these five years there has been a sharp increase in the number of annual works in these services. We reversed a negative trend for children and young people in this area in the municipalities that we have now not only taken back from our predecessors, but have a strong strengthening of the offer. It's incredibly important, just to be able to put the effort in early. But prevention is also important. That's why I'm glad I was the first Minister of Health to present a public health report that equated mental health with physical health.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e1110	I will focus on the funding system. Not very many days ago, the committee was on a committee mission to Akershus, and we met the Pacific builders, an action where the BUP and the Child Welfare Service cooperate. All the work is outpatient and is entirely dependent on project funding, for the funding system does not facilitate the operation of the still builders and their outpatient operations within normal budgets. It is entirely dependent on financial systems that facilitate good professionals to do their job. Then I wonder: Will the Council of State make it possible for such measures as the Pacific people to be able to participate in normal operation, or will we hope for funding from project to project in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e1115	No, as I announced in this year's hospital speech, I believe that the funding system needs to be changed so that it is both local and technologically neutral, so that it becomes even simpler, among other things. for people who work in the specialist health service, working outside, where our residents are, namely in the municipalities. There have already been changes in this area that are just contributing to it in today's system, and I see that a lot of places get to work out of office, work out in the service, without one saying that the funding system prevents it. But anyway, I think there is a need to make changes to the funding system, in order to make it even more conducive to new ways of working.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e1120	I'm glad the Council of State recognizes exactly what the professionals point to. It has been a while since the government announced that it would present a stepping-up plan for the mental health of children and young people. If I do not remember errors, we could read in the newspaper that this would be in place by the autumn of 2018. The council itself has referred to the escalation plan, that it is now coming, and then I wonder: When can we expect the escalation plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e1127	It was announced The Stortinget before Christmas 2018. Then Stortinget got a letter from me informing me that it was postponed until spring 2019, and that is still – if I look out of the window – in the spring of 2019, so it comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e1132	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e1139	I think we need to be able to agree on a cross-political basis that we haven't managed well enough to take mental health seriously and do enough to secure children and young people, but also the rest of the population, the best available help when dealing with mental health. Starting with children and young people in the field of mental health is very clever, because we see that it is one of the biggest challenges many children and young people face, but not least because both young people and young people will be able to experience the consequences of both good help and poor help for 50, 60 and 70 years to come, and it will have consequences both for individuals and for society what we do and don't do. Psychiatric health challenges should generally be of very high priority, but in particular in children and young people. The health minister and the government have flagged very high the golden rule, that at least as much attention should be paid to mental health — along with alcohol — as to somatic medicine. The latest results show that mental health has had one fifth of the growth that has been experienced by somaticbehaviour. It's a sign that this hasn't been good enough. When government parties point to the introduction of packaging for children and young people and in children’s and youth psychiatry, it is a good measure, but it requires that they have a content, that they have the opportunity to purchase the tools needed to ensure the success of a package. When I've had both professionals and user representatives in my office who say they don't have the economy that comes with them, neither the interaction you want with the municipalities, nor for example. to longitudinal coordinators, it is not certain that the package sequence you have set up is so much to boast about. This is the fifth matter we are dealing with today from the Health and Care Committee, and once again there are many fine words from several government parties. But then you vote down absolutely everything the opposition proposes. It may hardly be taking the Storting or the opposition seriously. It is not because it is believed that there are wrong measures for children and young people, no, it is almost a principle to reject the proposals that come. A proposal that health care professionals should be able to pass on or refer to the BUP, you should vote against it today, but then you might be in favour of it anyway. I knew you couldn't have voted for it if it had had major budgetary implications, but I can only see that it's the principle that makes you vote against it. I also see today that intervention-driven funding should continue to be maintained in mental health and in many ways to see mentally ill with a calculator, which I think is bad for both the individual and the community. I had hoped that the Christian People's Party in particular had managed to put a different stamp in the government they have now entered.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e1150	Although most of today’s children and young people have good mental health, it is alarming that more people report mental distress and suffering themselves. We do not know exactly how much of this increase comes from more openness and less stigma associated with mental health disorders. Over 60 pst. by municipalities in the country, reports that mental health problems among children and young people are their main challenge. The municipalities around Norway take this very seriously, and they are asking for good tools to work systematically to create a health-promoting breeding environment for all children and young people. More knowledge of mental health is needed among children and young people and their families. Henceforth, this is a priority area for this government. As several representatives have pointed out, the value of early efforts and cooperation with and about children and young people on mental distress and suffering is very high, both for society and especially for the individual. As I said, the government has a high priority in its efforts to strengthen the supply of child and youth psychiatry and also the school health services. The action plan for the mental health of children and young people will focus on these issues to which the representatives here refer. What the Center Party and the Labour Party are asking, is all going on. In addition, the opposition proposal does not take the height of the responsibility and responsibility of the municipalities to coordinate their services, and that it should be facilitated, so that one actually has the possibility locally to organise this service equipment in the best local circumstances for the best for each individual, patient or person.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e1161	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e1173	Then we're ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e1182	During the debate, Mr Kjerkol presented a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government asks the government to propose improvements to the notification scheme under the Special Health Services Act §3-3 and to follow the recommendations of NOU 2015:11 [[Arianson Committee]] Red is in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e1212	The Labour Party, the Center Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e1382	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e1393	The law decision will be passed until a second time in a future meeting of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e1402	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, from Tuva Moflag on behalf of the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked, through its governance dialogue with health businesses, to ensure that unit prices and the total cost of new medicinal products are public. Any derogation from the principle of disclosure shall be subject to a specific assessment on a case-by-case basis.’;» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government, through its governance dialogue with health businesses, asks the government to ensure that exceptional secret drug prices are made public after a limited period of time.’ These proposals and the recommendations of the Committee shall be replaced by an alternative vote. Red has already given its support to the proposals. The Committee had recommended that the Storting should do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e1437	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, from Tuva Moflag on behalf of the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is requested by regulation to ensure that health professionals employed or employed by the public health service and receiving fees from the pharmaceutical industry are registered in an open, searchable register managed by an administrative body governed by the Ministry of Health, such as the State Medicines Agency.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that public Pharmacovigilance Committees are required to publish their conflicts of interest by professional experts in procurement.’; [[LIS Committees]] These proposals and the recommendations of the Committee shall be replaced by an alternative vote. Red has already given its support to the proposals. The Committee had recommended that the Storting should do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e1472	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, from Tore Hagebakken on behalf of the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking, on the basis of the evaluation of the interaction reform, to promote the issue of new economic and structural measures for achieving the aims of the interaction reform on increased prevention, a strengthened community health service and increased cooperation between hospitals and municipalities in order to ensure patients’ needs for integrated and coordinated services.’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e1496	Alternatively, between the recommendation of the Committee and proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to evaluate the interaction reform’. Red is in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e1517	A total of three proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1-3, by Elise Björnebeck-Waagen on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide an opportunity for health care providers to pass on/refer to the BUP.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the removal of input-driven funding in mental health protection.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide measures to strengthen cooperation between the paediatric and school health services and to contribute to the realisation of cooperative models that provide enhanced interaction between the BUP and the municipal health services. [[BUP]] The basis for the models must be that the school health service, which follows the school environment and the individual student over a long period of time, is best positioned to both prevent minor mental problems and contribute to rapid treatment.’ These proposals and the recommendations of the Committee shall be replaced by an alternative vote. Red has already given its support to the proposals. The Committee had recommended that the Storting should do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-28.ana.ud405e1588	So the things on today's map are done. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
