ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e37	The representative, Lars Haltbrecken, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e42	On behalf of the big business representatives Une Bastholm, Audun Lysbakken and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal to protect the trainer and surrounding areas from environmentally harmful oil activities.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e47	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting continues, if necessary, beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e67	We are now going to begin the discussion of the framework area 14, which deals with the budgetary chapters dealt with by the Control and Constitutional Committee. I am pleased with the fact that the proposal put forward by the Presidency to the government in its time has been found right by the government to present to the Grand Duchy, and the Grand Duchy has adopted the framework area as Framework Area 14. It is also a unanimous vote by the Committee. The only small deviation was that when the framework area was adopted, the Centre Party considered that the framework area could be reduced by 31.8 million. kr, probably related to the Riksrevisionen, but it is also the only disagreement that has occurred in this process. That is why it is a unanimous committee that proposes that we allocate 91.1 million. Mr Stortinget's Ombudsman for the administration, as we usually refer to as the Civil Ombudsman. I just want to say briefly that in recent years, too, it has shown that it is an important part of democracy in Norway that we have an institution that can address on behalf of the population whether they have been treated poorly by public Norway. The recent events related to Nav and other things show that it's important that we have such an independent function that does a good job for us. The same applies to the Intelligence, Surveillance and Security Control Committee of the EEAS. Here, in connection with the 26 million allocation. Notes that, on several occasions, the Committee has been concerned that developments in the field of intelligence and surveillance, where much more of what is going on, are taking place digitally, require those who are going to work and those who are going to check that it is functioning within the framework of the law, to also be allowed to build up the capacity to follow up on the new technological developments; And then it's finally the Riksrevision, which has an important function in looking at the effect of the Storting's decision, and whether the Storting's decision is being followed up. Last night we dealt with issues here where we first had a thorough review of a lot that goes well here in the country, but not least an indication of the areas where there is improvement potential. I have no doubt that the reason why the majority of the administration works well is that the Riksrevision makes a significant contribution to it by keeping them under control and giving feedback on the developments that are taking place. To the National Audit Office, we propose to allocate $550.1 million. NOK and in Appendix 27 million. kr to the National Audit Office’s work on developing countries. I believe it is a significant contribution from Norway to other countries that developing countries can also have good audit and control of their use of money, where many see that they can learn from Norway. With this I present the unanimous vote of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e82	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e99	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will organise the debate as follows: the Labour Party 25 minutes, the Right 25 minutes, the Progress Party 15 minutes, the Central Party 10 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, the Left 5 minutes, the Christian People's Party 5 minutes, the Green Party 5 minutes and the Green Party 5 minutes, and the Red Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to four lines will be given with replies from the main number of participants and six lines with replies from members of the government. In addition, those who have to sign up for the speaker list in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e108	As chairman of the committee, I must first of all thank the committee and our distinguished committee secretary for a good cooperation. We have done an important job, because the chapters and posts for 2020 that we are going to discuss here today – like thousands of dollars, tons or species, millions of kilowatt-hours, barrels, cubics or liters – become a bit of the legacy of young people, young people, those who have been outside here in 2019 in thousands and created this year's new word: climate change. They want us to cut a lot and do less of something. That's absolutely right and necessary, but we're also going to do more of something. We have to do more by nature. We have world heritage to secure, like wild and wild, so we spend a lot of money on it in 2020. We have water to secure, so we spend more money than ever on water management. We have seas and lakes that need to be protected against plastic pollution, so we spend a lot of money cleaning up and making sure that less plastic comes out into nature. We have forests that need protection. By 2020 we will pass 5 pst. forest protection in Norway because we spend money on it, in fact almost half a billion in 2020. The Oslo soil needs to get the cod back, so we spend money on a whole plan. We're going to develop nature and cultural parks, create national parks, deploy new technologies in nature, like drones and sensors, to monitor, rescue, recycle or clear. An important part of our heritage and the planet of the future is more nature – and good nature. I am pleased that in Norwegian policy there is a broad willingness to protect, clear and secure nature, but we need to do more. The UN Panel on Nature says that one million species out of eight million in total are under threat. Land seizures, pollution, climate change and environmental crime are the main challenges. I am pleased that the Minister for Climate and Environment of the Left, Ola Elvestuen, is so clear that Norway is going to be a driver in order to reach a Paris agreement for nature, too, when the world's country is going to meet in China in October 2020. Last year, Norway was the only country with Barna’s Climate Panel at the climate summit in Poland. In the Nordic region, we have said that we will jointly bring young people to the China Summit on the nature of the world in order to reach an agreement. Young people have to vote. In the Nordic Council, I have also taken the initiative to set up a Youth Foundation for Climate and Nature. When pension managers in the Nordic region say that there is a lot of money, but few projects, while young people are roaring, we adults have to take action. Speaking of action: Norway cuts the climate emissions for the third consecutive year, while the world is increasing its emissions. The left got a lot of pepper in 2016 because we stood so hard on blending requirements for biofuels. No one believed in 20 pst. in 2020. The 2019 fasite can be 25 pst. It is therefore quite natural that we raise the list to 25 pst. in 2020. Emissions are falling, and investments in Norwegian and Nordic biofuel production are increasing. Together with the large growth in the number of electric cars, the sales of fossil fuels are now falling. We're in the middle of a big change, but we have to go. Totally electrical is the answer. Norway can be the first full-electric society in the world. We have gone ahead, with cross-border cooperation in the Nordic region. A common power system and turnover on the Nord Pool electricity exchange is much of the policy that the EU is now pursuing in its clean energy packages. Together with the EU, we must convert from coal and gas and fossil to renewable energy. They tail inside with large-scale expansion of both the sun and the wind as well as CO 2 pricing. The next stage in the electrical revolution is digitization. It's happening in full moon now. Batteries are at full speed and will balance, just as Norwegian hydropower is involved, but we need to continue developing renewable power in Norway. We're going to take advantage of the hydropower's magazine advantages, build windmills on the sea and put several solar panels on the roof. New industries in Norway need more power, oil platforms need more power, and the Nordic countries and Europe need more renewable energy. The North Sea has given us adventurous opportunities. It can also continue to provide us with adventurous solutions – producing power from the wind, giving power to hydrogen and storing carbon. Norwegian offshore solutions and maritime competence become green gold in the green shift we are now in. Norwegian shipyards build more electric and hybrid vessels than the rest of the world together. The green shift that is now happening has not come entirely by itself. The left has gone ahead, in front, for all the measures that everyone here today is talking about: more to collective more to railway The electricity policy is set at 2021. That's $12. SEK in subsidies in 2020. 20 pst. renewable fuels in 2020 We have established a fund for business transport. More than 600 million are granted. kr for carbon capture and storage in 2020. The CO 2 tax goes up 5 pst. Climate action, Nysnø, SkattenFUNN and KapitalFUNN There are plenty of measures to take.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e162	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e167	In this debate last year, the representative Ketil Kjenseth took a line after the main posts of the Central Party. As usual, the government's representatives were most concerned about hanging it itself failed, on old red-green decisions – so no exception for Kjeseth, who had the following to notify: ‘In the case of biofuels, the centre party of the red-green government, which amended the user fee and made sure that biofuels in Eastfold were not built in the representative’s own home state.’ It is tempting to ask Kjeseth what he feels now, because neither the government's original nor adjusted arrangements will lead to the construction of more biofuels, either in Eastfold or elsewhere, but perhaps the use of palm oil will increase.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e177	I feel very satisfied. The big difference from the decision of the Central Party, the red-green government, in 2009, was that the share of biofuels was zero. Now the fraction is 25 pst. We're replacing the fuel from fossil to both biofuels and electricity. That's a pretty big difference, and that's probably why Shell, among other things. enters Biozin's factory in Åmli – with 3.5 billion. kr in investment – and investments in Norwegian biofuel production are continuing. That means that the representative Myhrvold and others, like myself, who live in the districts and have a lot of bio-resources to take off, can now organize and continue to spend money on the idea and get people to work, to a great extent different from what happened in 2009, when a person parked all the investments and got no fuel on the idea.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e182	The representative, Kjeseth, said in his post that Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions had fallen for the third consecutive year. In one of those years it was due to the government’s climate policy bathing in palm oil through record imports of palm oil-based biofuels. In the evening post on Sunday we could read what was the government's proposal in the heated biofuel discussion, and their solution to it. It led the Rain Forest Fund to critically criticise the solution and warn that we can once again get large imports of palm oil. My question to the representative is: why won't the Left join in on any of the proposals that will prevent us from getting a new record high import of palm oil for next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e191	The debate on the risk of deforestation of the rainforest is important and it is important to have looked at this. This is a major international challenge, and we are waiting for the EU to come up with its regulation in 2021. So in 2017, there was 300 million litres of fuel with deforestation risk – a lot of it was palm oil. Last year it was reduced to less than 100 million litres. Now it's estimated that we've fallen below 50 million liters. So we phase this out, as we increase the production of Norwegian and Nordic biofuels, which are advanced, and which are not based on deforestation risk. This phase-out is taking place, but we also need to bring the other countries on board, and EU policy in 2021 is very important. If not just shift Norway a problem to the rest of the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e198	I thank you for your answer. Not only will the Left vote against SV's proposal that would prevent us from getting palm oil in the fuel next year, the Left also goes into the budget to cancel one of the decisions that left itself was invoking in 2017, and that in public tenders it should not be allowed to buy palm oil. But my question to the representative is: can the representative guarantee that we will reduce the use of palm oil even more in 2020 with what is now the government's proposal and which, according to the Rain Forest Fund, increases the risk of more palm oil next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e205	I think that guarantees are none of us given to print. What we're seeing is a development in which we've got amazingly many million litres – hundreds of millions of litres – of biofuels into the market after the Left negotiated the sales requirements in 2017. We did it in the budget in 2016. 4–8–12 – now we're at 20 pst. It's the most important tool. The user charge is also part of this. Getting it on all biofuels is an instrument for better control of turnover, and we see that when palm oil is now disappearing from the Norwegian market, this is no longer a challenge. Our challenge is to keep getting more biofuels on the tank, especially the advanced biofuels, and now we see that it's actually possible. We're passing 20 pst. already in 2019, and then it is natural to raise the list to 25 pst. and continue that escalation. So this is a long-term and predictable policy that is important to the actors.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e210	Norway has great ambitions for the electric car park, but at the same time we see electric car sales starting to surface. Perhaps part of the market has opportunities for private electric car installations, or those that have them as second or third cars, starting to be saturated. In the evening post yesterday we saw that the charge price varies enormously in the country – cheapest in Oslo and relatively expensive in the north. The question is, when we have such ambitions, is it enough to leave to the market and Enova to ensure an infrastructure for charging, so that the electric car becomes the all-man car for people most and not just for those who have it as a second or third car?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e216	This is a trick that we're going through, especially until 2025. Then we're not going to sell fossil cars anymore, so we have to stand by the conversion that's going on. It's not just up to Enova to do it. We also have climate rate as an instrument. Some of the municipalities in the districts are very good at using the climate rate, others are waiting and looking at, so this is going to be a big challenge. We're also going to expand the mains into the thousands of homes. Norway and Albania are the only ones in Europe with one phase of 230 volts. Everyone has to pass on the finnase and 400 volts, and that will allow more people to charge faster at home. It is an important infrastructure development. We also need to look at tools in Enova for the next few years – how we can speed up the deployment of faster chargers, but we also need to build filling stations for other types of fuel. In particular, heavy transport must enter a large shift.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e221	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e226	At the opening of the UN Climate Change Conference COP 25 in Madrid, the Secretary-General of the United Nations concluded that humans are waging a war against nature and that that war must end. He's right about that. Over the past year, we have seen a dramatic upturn in the commitment to strong climate action. We've had climate-stripping kids. We have seen that this topic has gone from being an important topic to being the most important topic for very many people both here in Norway and abroad. We have also seen, very pleased, that a number of actors in business and society have taken on board. Investors, banks and insurance companies are now talking a lot more about the need for a much faster transition to a more climate-friendly society with lower emissions, is more circular. All these people, from business leaders to LO employees, LO-organized and climate-stripping young people, expect more from us, and they expect more from us all. Policy must be involved in a very central and important social development. The Labour Party has presented an overall approach to this in its alternative budget, combining climate responsibility with efforts to create new jobs, new value creation, justice in transition and good distribution policies – because we do not save the world's climate just by talking about climate. In order to achieve a climate policy and a transition that works, we also need to give a good response to what people will live on in the future, how we can finance the welfare state, and how we can maintain a good distribution. Actually, there is no time more than now calling for us to use the entire Norwegian model, the ability to work together, to lift in a flock, to move on. This year we have again presented a emissions budget to show how our policy proposals will also affect the overall emissions budget. I have to remind you, as I've done on previous occasions, that we get new state budgets every year, and what you can't get through for a year, you can try again next year. But the emission budget is final: when it is exhausted, it is used up – and there are not many years left with the course we are currently taking. We have to take this over. We have also found that Norway does not meet the 2020 targets. That is why, together with the Greens/EFA, we have spoken about something that has come from civil society, from the future in our hands, namely an idea of a disaster commission, or an examination of why we did not achieve these objectives. I would like to stress that the purpose here is not really to take any, the purpose of this is to learn from what we do wrong when, unlike the majority of European countries, we do not reach our 2020 targets. Is there something we can learn from it, so that we increase our chances of achieving the even more ambitious goals we set for 2030, and for carbon neutrality in 2050, so learn what is lacking in consistency between objectives and instruments? We have a number of proposals, and my colleagues will come back to individual elements in this. We have many proposals relating to the conversion of industry through industry agreements and close cooperation on both the reduction of emissions and the previous introduction of new technologies, which are both good climate policy and good industrial policy. We are once again proposing a business CO 2 fund following the model for which both the NHO and the LO have joined forces with the business community on a large-scale shift towards zero-emission transport during the 2020s. We have concrete proposals for a faster introduction of a circular economy, including: That we should have taxes on virgin resources, i.e. the first use of resources that can be reused, so that relatively much more use is made of resources. We have a strong commitment to carbon capture and storage, where we believe that Norway must go ahead. And we are proposing a North Sea plan for the strong expansion of, among other things. sea wind, so that the energy nation of Norway can be as successful in the renewable revolution as we have been through the oil age. Finally, we have some proposals relating to climate adaptation, because although the world achieves the Paris goals, the globe is getting warmer than it is today. There will still be more floods, escapes and forest fires in such a world, and we have to be even more competent, even earlier on when it comes to adapting to the changes that come anyway. I refer to those proposals in the vote where the Labour Party is a co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e248	The representative Espen Barth Eide has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e255	I would like to thank you for a good post. Although I may not agree with all the assessments of the Workers' Party, I think it is high time to be able to discuss with each other properly, to bury the dispute between the parties and to work together to achieve both Norway's and the world's climate goals. I have a question about the Workers' Party's alternative budget. It's in the review of Enova that with 2.3 billion. kr to Hywind Tampen and the zero-emission fund for the commercial transport sector, Enova is being drained for important resources in other areas. But the Workers' Party itself is proposing a re-priority within Enova, a real cut to the other Enova does, of over half a billion dollars just to the zero-emission fund for the commercial transport. So what I'm asking is, how does the critic of the Labour Party come with the government, along with their own alternative budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e262	I thank the representative for the interest in the Alternative Budget of the Workers' Party and I agree that it is important that we work together on an issue that is so big that it goes beyond the individual party in a way. That's a wise approximation. In the case of Enova, it's absolutely right that we move some money from Enova to this business CO2 fund. This is because – perhaps unlike the representative Heggelund’s party – we believe that business can do some things by itself, the state does not have to do all the tasks in society. And if it is that there is now an interest from key players in the business community, backed up by both NHOs, professional organisations and LOs, in order for them to be able to use part of this fund themselves, we will not at the same time have a corresponding budget line in Enova. So we're taking out money from Enova to use it for this business CO2 fund, but we're taking out the corresponding problems, so Enova won't get any less to go with, they'll get a problem less, and not that money. It is a logical and coherent budgetary policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e275	Government rates significantly at sea. We have great investments in sea wind, carbon capture and storage, aquaculture and, of course, our main industry, petroleum. As mentioned above, a good example of this is the recent commitment of SEK 2,3 billion. kr to Hywind Tampen, made possible by the government's bet on Enova.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e280	I am pleased that the Workers' Party seems to support most of the government's efforts, but I read and hear about a so-called North Sea Plan. I can't see what the content of such a plan is. What will the Labour Party actually plan in addition to what we're already doing?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e283	Thank you again for the interest in our budget. We have a North Sea Plan that builds on a proposal that we put forward here in the Chamber, about a large-scale investment in the marine wind industry. It is because we see, like the Shipowners' Association, the NHO and a number of other actors out there, that sea winds come too full, not just in Norway, but in the world. We want Norway to take a central part of it. To that, it would be a good idea to build a home market. We propose, for example: constructing a network in the North Sea, which shall be independent of individual operators, preferably built by State grids. We want to invest more in research and development, to make it tax-free to make it pay to invest in this industry. Because we know that oil and gas production is going to fall gradually, we also know that demand for renewables is rising. We think we have a niche in a few years to arrest this and make sure that the Norwegian supplier industry is given new assignments in the order book, and then an active business policy is needed to facilitate it. We have a seven-point plan that we presented last year, which was voted down by the majority, but they are cordially welcome to think about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e288	Cooperation is important. I record that the representative Barth Eide and the Workers' Party are talking more and more about climate and are briefing on a climate budget along with, among others. Environment Party of the Greens. I also record that the Central Party, which may be the party that has been pointed to as the most current government partner for the Workers' Party in a possible government cooperation, is not part of that climate budget. Then the representative talks about a North Sea plan. The industrial thing is interesting, that's to use the green shift and also the climate cuts to create a new industry. Next year we're going through a management plan, and we're going to say something about future Norwegian ambitions for oil and gas. I did not hear the representative say so much about it, other than that he just said that we know that we should use less oil and gas. That's right! The question is whether the Workers' Party will leave the Barents' Sea north to guide itself around the North Sea in oil and gas exploration.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e295	I think even the representative Kjeseth would be surprised if we concluded in the forthcoming debate on the Barents Sea today, because here I think we should have thorough processes where many considerations should be balanced against each other. We have at least started that work, and I record that the government has a running seminar on it. The leaks from it give a lot of drag help to learn about this, but we're going to treat it properly. What we know at least – it is also stated in the government's forecast, which actually describes this well – is that the revenue from the oil and gas sectors is going to fall. I think that's going to be even more true than what the message says, for example. Europe is now oriented towards full decarbonisation and Europe is our foremost home market. At the same time, we know that we are sitting on some huge opportunities within renewables. When we entered the hydropower age – otherwise at a time when the representative of Kjenseth's party was large and powerful and even had the Prime Minister – we managed to arrest it in a very good way. As we entered the oil age and the Workers' Party led Norway, we were able to address it with a very active industrial policy. Why shouldn't we do it now when we're going into the renewable age and have all the possibilities Norway has?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e305	In the same way as previous replicators, I can thank you for an informative article and not least for your answers so far. I also have the same thing as others – as I always do – sitting down and reading the Labour Party's alternative well, and there I found a sentence about sea wind saying: ‘In addition, it is necessary to establish a national sectoral agreement between terrestrial and marine businesses, together with authorities, instruments, research environments and other parts of the cluster ensuring the development of industry, competence, jobs and exportable technologies for liquid sea winds.’ Now the representative has repeatedly pointed out that it is the large export industry of oil and gas that must be the mode of operation for this purpose. In the sentence I just read from the working party's alternative budget, it says that it is the technology to be exported. But the current produced by the floating sea wind – does the Labour Party think that there is something that one should also export? In this case, what cables does the Labour Party want to do?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e315	I'm very touched by the great interest in our budget, and I think it's very good priorities from all parties to spend evening hours reading it. There should be an example for follow-up. Definitely we're going to export power from sea wind. I imagine this is going to happen in three terms: first, we're going to electrify the socket, and there's already something happening. That's good, that's a reasonable start. But the base won't be there forever, so it's a good idea to think about what to do next, and then I imagine big export to Europe from the North Sea windmills. And you can also imagine that you're taking something into a country. But that's, kind of, on level 3. This is not primarily to gain more power for Norway. So this is both to be part of an industrial venture, where the Norwegian supplier industry gets new legs to stand on, and at the same time contribute to the green shift. So now the European Commission is going to use more than the Norwegian oil fund just to convert into green energy. It's going to be a huge demand for those who have it. We have the world's best wind conditions in the North Sea. We can operate in the North Sea. It's all set. One must only seize the opportunity – and it is called active industrial policy. That is why our budget is excellent.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e324	That's the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e329	This has been a year in the signs of climate policy. Never before has the climate issue received so much attention, never has it got so much excitement. That is good, because that is how the government parties – and the Workers' Party and the Centre – have confirmed in this Chamber: We are facing a global climate crisis. More debate, more attention, more upliftment – all that is good to be able to agree on, and introduce, good means of emissions reduction. And that's what climate policy is primarily about: cutting emissions, bringing emissions down both nationally and globally, so that we can achieve the 1.5 degree target. At the same time, climate policy must be more than that. Anyone can stop Norway’s emissions – we can adopt it today. The problem, of course, is that it will stop society too, and there are no parties that will. Because it's the way we live, the way we work, the way we create well-being, almost in any case contribute to emissions. So what's needed is structural change, where we uncouple growth from emissions. So someone is asking, can't we just stop the growth? Well, it'll go beyond people's jobs. It will go beyond the welfare level of people, and it will make it more difficult to achieve all the other sustainability goals. No responsible batches may accept it. That's what makes the problem complex. I believe climate policy and debate need to become more accessible, less incomprehensible, easier to understand. And we, who are here, all have a responsibility that more people who want to participate, but we can't or should not underestimate the size of the task – that it will take a lot of us. In Norway, all the low-hanging fruits are taken, but we're going to be able to keep on cutting. It requires a systematic policy for all sectors, a policy in which we regulate where we need to, and reward where we can. Norway shall cut its emissions by at least 45 pst. by 2030, and will work for the EU to increase its overall ambition level from 40 pst. to 55 pst. The budget we are adopting today is contributing to emissions cuts. It is a budget that follows up important measures that we have agreed on, which both contribute to and require conversion. We increase the CO 2 tax, and we grant record money to help businesses and industry convert to more climate-friendly technology. In June, the government provided an action plan for green shipping to cut emissions from shipping by 50 pst. by 2030. In the budget we follow up with the money, and the funds should be, among other things. contribute to the increased use of low- and zero-emission solutions in county high-speed boat connection and near-coastal fleet renewal. We are strengthening the commitment to the conversion of business transport by strengthening the Zero Emissions Fund, and we are also taking seriously the fight against biodiversity loss – because we want to contribute to the good status of ecosystems, prevent loss of species and habitat types, and protect a representative sample of Norwegian nature for future generations. This is why we are strengthening measures for both natural diversity and outdoor life. In addition, we propose to continue the strong work we have started with marine pollution, for example. to strengthen Norway’s international leadership role in this work, and we are increasing the grant scheme for the clean-up of marine waste and for prevention. We're going on with the strong commitment to it. Then we also know that climate change gives us an increased incidence of extreme weather such as storm and heavy rainfall, and that good and accurate warnings of extreme weather are crucial to the security of the population. In order to ensure stable operation and proper upgrade of observation equipment such as weather radars, lightning sensor networks, sea current radars, etc. it is proposed to increase the allocation to the Meteorological Institute, so that we can gain more knowledge of this and be prepared. So this is a budget that makes us both more prepared for the changes that are coming and that takes biodiversity seriously – because we understand how important it is in itself, but also in a perspective of climate change, as well as that we are contributing to the necessary transformation that Norway needs to achieve in order to achieve our climate goals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e353	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e358	The representative Heggelund was inside a lot of things. One of the important things was that he pointed out that ferry connections were going to be electric. It's like a county responsibility. We know that there's a lot of investment, and you don't necessarily get the big income right away. So there are large investments and low operating costs. How are the government parties, which now have a majority of the government budget, going to get arrangements to ensure that the investment costs are not shifted to the ticket prices, i.e. to the users? Because even if it's earned over time, we know it costs a lot now.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e365	I thank you for the question. I noticed that the representative at the very beginning of the line said ‘one of the important things’. As I remember my own post, I just took up important things. Everything was important. So I'm going to answer the question: here's the point, as I also mentioned in my post, that we're following up with the means that are needed. I think we should remember that due to the policy of the bourgeois majority for a number of years, Norway has become the world leader in this technology. It's both because of tendering processes, and because we're showing, for example. in this budget, that we are willing to follow up on the means needed to achieve the objectives we have set in the Green Shipping Action Plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e374	Now there is a great deal of uncertainty about whether enough has been followed up in relation to the county economy, and that is also why the Workers' Party was in favour of an increase in our alternative budget. But what we're looking out for is that there's a real fear among ferry users, and there's a riot going on that reminds a lot of the toll uprising. These are the expenses people have in their everyday lives, which they have to put on to be able to move around, in leisure time and in work. And the government has not been able to create the necessary security for the necessary framework to be put in place, so that this promise can be made without pushing the bill on consumers through increased ticket prices. On the contrary, a doubling of some sections has actually been predicted, with significant negative consequences for individuals, families and businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e381	We take these signals very seriously, and that is why we in the budget follow up with money to implement the Green Shipping Action Plan. Then I ask the representative, Mr. Seystad, to bear in mind that we are quite clear on this: every state budget this government delivers must be greener than the previous state budget. That means that this is the greenest government budget ever delivered in history. That means that the next state budget is going to be the greenest state budget ever delivered in history. And that is absolutely necessary in order for us to be able to achieve the climate goals. We have now presented an action plan for green shipping. We're going to achieve those objectives, and we're going to do it in cooperation with industry, county municipalities, etc. And we've shown in the budget that we're willing to follow up with the funds that are actually needed to reach them. This is a new investment in Norway. The Labour Party never had anything similar in their budgets when they put in government, but I'm glad they're following us now.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e390	There has been a great debate on marine protected areas, and when the government budget was presented, I was somewhat surprised that 14 areas were to be protected during 2019. But then I am pleased to see that the balancing budget proposes not to protect these areas in 2019, possibly because there are only three weeks left of this year. My question to the representative from the Right is: What is the status of these protection areas? And isn't it really a victory for the Center Party that these areas should not be protected?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e397	If the Center Party wants to win, they have to go into the bourgeois government. That's where they're sure to win. If you want influence, you get to go into government. No, the point is – from a joke to a serious one – that we have said that there is a need for more marine protection, and we are now looking at the recommendations made by the Environment Directorate and will present plans as soon as possible. The question to Sandra Borch is why in the world she does not ask this question to the Socialist Left, who in the budget, in the vote, has a proposal for a number of new areas of protection that they want to introduce. So how's it going? Who is going to get through in a possible red-green government in the future? Is it the Socialist Left Party, or is it the Center Party? Sandra Borch doesn't know that. She cannot give any such guarantees.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e405	The representative, Mr Heggelund, said at the turn of the line that the budget presented was the greenest budget ever presented. Well, at the same time, it's the state budget where you openly admit that you're breaking Storting's climate targets from 2012. But that's not what I was going to ask. As the representative Heggelund was in the room, the year we have left behind has been marked by the youth's climate exposure. Also the Young Right has been involved in this engagement. Today's leader in Young Right, Daniel Skjevik-Aasberg, has said to the Evening Post: "We have already found more oil than we can use." He also believes that Norwegian oil policy is in line with Norway's climate objectives, and therefore not sustainable, and he will protect the North Barents Sea and move the ice cap south. My question to the representative Heggelund is: Does he agree with his own youth party?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e416	The representative Haltbrecken should actually start his line by welcoming me to the club for those who are unable to achieve climate goals. It's a club he's part of himself. He probably agreed to set up the club with the red-green government. I think we know why we couldn't achieve the 2020 targets. That's because it wasn't followed up with a concrete plan. We were too eager to just set goals, and then we didn't follow up with a concrete plan. This government has ensured that it will not repeat itself, and therefore, by 2030, climate change will follow the agreement with the EU. So we can get sanctions on ourselves if we don't achieve the climate goals, and it's initiated and implemented by the civil government. So that's right, what the representative Haltbrecken says. I also heard from the Political Quarter here in the daytime with the leader of Young Right. Let me put it this way: on the civil side of the policy, there is a ceiling for taking debates both internally and externally. [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e425	There's no time for speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e430	Then I am content to say that I am happy that we are getting a proper debate! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e435	And then I'm content to say that now this line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e440	I also want to start by thanking the Committee for a good cooperation. We have a lot of topical issues to deal with in the committee, and themes like energy and climate are going to be crucial for the further development of our society. Hydropower has been very important for Norway and will have a major impact on the future. Now we need to ensure that we have an investment-friendly tax system that safeguards both residents, power companies and municipalities, while at the same time increasing power generation. For the Progress Party, the main issue in the budget of the year may have been to ensure the framework conditions for the main industries of Norway. The oil and gas industry has an enormous impact on our society. It would give us great challenges if the companies had started to find Norwegian socket uninteresting. It had not only been jobs and revenues that had suffered damage; not least, we would have damaged our climate. It must be possible to have two tanks in your head at once. Norwegian petroleum industry accounts for large values in Norwegian society. It is absolutely essential that industry revenues help to maintain our welfare society. More than 170,000 people have their jobs in the industry, and we supply gas to Europe to reduce emissions by nearly 300 million tonnes of CO2. The industry gives us the economic return that makes it possible for Norway as a nation, for us on the Stortinget, to give us money to invest in climate action. Because it's not free to bet on electrifying society, and it's not free to convert us into a new everyday life to take greater account of our environment. But I also want to challenge you all: what is the major climate action that Norway can contribute to, a measure that can deliver great results globally? At NTB we could read today that CO2 emissions are growing slower. The world's CO2 emissions are still rising, but the increase has decreased. One of the reasons why this happens is that you can replace your coal consumption and replace it with natural gas. In 1995, the EU had a 43 pst import demand for natural gas. In 2025, the import demand will increase to 85 pst. Who's going to deliver this gas? Is there anyone who believes that there is an advantage to this need being met by Africa or Russia? So a decision has been made to build a pipeline for Poland, a pipeline that can deliver gas as early as 2022. If Norway succeeds in this, Norway manages to supply gas to Poland, Poland can therefore reduce its greenhouse gas emissions by 80 million tonnes. This is one and a half times the total Norwegian emissions. One should be reasonably good in mathematics to do the same good climate action at home. Then, of course, the question becomes: How can Norway stand up as a solid and predictable supplier of that gas to Poland that ensures that Poland will reduce its emissions? Well, of course, it's by ensuring that we further develop the Norwegian base and give the industry access to the areas where there is the greatest opportunity to find more gas. It's probably not as a surprise that this is getting access to the Barents Sea. I still hope that a majority in this room is to provide Norwegian industry, Norwegian business, Norwegian jobs and will facilitate the reduction of global greenhouse gas emissions. The government also adds up to increased activity in the oceans – or at sea, as we say at home. The government has a great deal of faith in carbon capture and storage and the great opportunity this can give us – not least to be a driving force in climate action, both nationally and internationally. The government is also adding up to a big bet on sea wind. Here we have several areas of interest for consultation, and hopefully – the Council of State – we will have areas such as: Utsira Nord has already been cleared for expansion to summer. It means a lot to Norwegian industry. It can give us a development that ensures Norway’s world-leading role in sea wind work. And once again, it's the knowledge and competence of our petroleum industry and not least our maritime industry to ensure that we succeed, both with carbon capture and storage and with sea wind.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e465	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e470	I am very pleased that the representative Halleland is so involved in industrial policy. We have that in common. But then we'll see if our paths meet further. The working party is very concerned with sea winds – we have made proposals for the Storting, and we are impatient about what is happening in the government in this regard. We're not alone in that. Stein Lier-Hansen in Norsk Industrie criticises the government for the lack of investment, and Harald Solberg in the Swedish Shipowners' Association calls for framework conditions for the seawind bet. There is little help with new areas if the framework conditions are not in place. My question to Mr Halleland's representative is: what framework conditions will industry have in order to be able to invest in sea wind, and when will these be put in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e479	I think the most important thing we can do, as opposed to what the representative thinks, is to give access to land. If we don't give access to land, it's completely impossible to bet on sea wind in Norway. It's fundamental, and it's a work we've prioritised, and it's going on. The instrument available to the industry has worked. We've been supporting Enova for 2.3 billion. kr, which is directed towards sea wind, and which is directed towards our industry and our industry, in order to develop this work further. There are certainly issues that will arise, where we can be involved and help to facilitate the work of our industry and industry, and we will take that when it comes. But as it looks now, I record that Norwegian businesses are winning contracts abroad related to sea wind. So I believe that together with both public authorities and business, Norwegian sea wind will be a success.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e486	This was really the answer I expected to get, but I thought you might be able to upgrade and be a little bit more advanced in the answer. Because it's not like the Labour Party and the Advance Party don't agree that we're going to have new areas for sea wind, we're very happy about that, but we're saying that it's not enough just to have it. You have to have framework conditions that help you get a bet. Now we've seen that Enova has contributed money to Equinor, but what about the rest of the business? What framework conditions should they deal with in the future? Do you have any new thoughts, any new bets there – and when does the industry realize that this is coming? They wait and are quite impatient, because it is important for them to get a home market going.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e493	I think it's very positive that we have an industry that is impatient and that wants to bet on this. It shows that we have a company – Equinor – that began to bet on sea winds early. They started betting on their Hywind project, which has produced results. It has led them in a position that makes it natural that they are so far ahead that they get a support from the public to be involved in developing this at the moment. Then there will be other companies in the same position as Equinor is today, and then they will have access to the same instrument from which Equinor has received its application. They will have their affairs dealt with there and hopefully get a result that is similar and that realizes the development of more sea wind in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e501	In recent years, the government has invested millions of dollars in its budgets for anti-conflict measures in the municipalities of wolfevir, and I became a little interested in what these funds actually do. The Council of State could respond to the fact that these funds, among others: goes to the purchase of dog jackets and canoe rental. Does the representative of the Progress Party think that this is the proper use of taxpayers’ funds, if the purpose was to compensate for the loss – rights resulting from high predatory pressures?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e506	I can only agree with the representative that if that is what the funds have been used for – what the representative refers to as a proposal – I fully agree that there must certainly be other measures that you can do with the means that are better suited. These means will be used to compensate for the decisions taken by the municipality, and I really hope that the municipalities are able to be so constructive that they find good measures that help to replace the loss experienced by the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e511	In his statement, the representative asked Halleland: What is the largest climate action that Norway can contribute to? His answer was obvious: export of gas. It would have been tempting to ask whether the second largest climate action that Norway can contribute to is oil exports. But I'm not going to ask you exactly that. Because I'm going to refer comrade Halleland to a report that came from the Global Carbon Project yesterday. They say that since 2012, emissions from the use of gas account for more than half of the global emissions growth — natural gas, which is Halleland’s main climate action. My question to Halleland is: What does the representative now feel, after hearing about this report?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e516	We have a big challenge in terms of emissions. Then we also have a big challenge in that we want to produce energy. And if we want to keep producing the same energy, we see that we have problems coping with that growth within renewables. We have a world that grows with 80 million people. The demand for energy is very high, and that's why we have to have fossils. We can't phase out fossilly more or less overnight, as comrade Haltbrecken would have liked, but then we have to align ourselves in that way that we can phase out the most polluting energy sources first, and there's Norwegian gas and gas in general involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e527	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e532	For the centre party, there is no doubt: climate change is the biggest challenge of our time – changes created as a result of a large and increasing consumption of fossil carbon, oil, gas and coal. In the future, the world must use significantly less of it and more green carbon. The central party fully supports the acceptance of the international commitments undertaken by Norway. The question is not whether we should have a climate policy, but which climate policy works best. The role of nature as a climate action must therefore, in the opinion of the Centre Party, be placed higher on the Norwegian agenda. The centre party is a practical batch. We're a party that's close to those who use land and forest. Climate policy must be understandable, fair and practicable. With its geography, Norway must have a climate policy that takes account of social and geographical challenges and differences. We will therefore, for example: Rather, it makes it cheaper to choose climate-smart solutions than to make it more expensive to use a car for those who do not have alternatives. Instead of making it more expensive to use the short-haul network, which many depend on in everyday life in this country, the Centre Party believes it is more important to do something about the long-haul flights. We also supported this proposal earlier this year. In addition, we will strengthen the railway system, restore the system of public transport in the districts and increase the grant for the construction of commuter parking. Climate change policy adaptation is going to be a demanding transformation of Norwegian society. As a strong country, Norway must contribute more to climate finance to other countries. That should be our obligation. The extraction of oil and gas has served our country well. There are also obligations. The future must be used to build bridges from what has built the country and from what will build the country. We shall succeed in the transition to a climate-friendly society, but all bridges need weddings, clear anchoring. That is why the bridge into the new must also build on what we have, because we need the capital, the competence and the technology from the oil and gas industries to the climate-friendly society. Without a wedding party in today's industry, we will never get in place, for example. industrial capture and storage of CO 2, liquid sea wind, hydrogen bet and other investments in renewable solutions. That is why the Centre Party is increasing, among other things. total Nysnø capital of 300 million. NOK, and we're setting up a new investment company of 10 billion. kr to provide new investments based on the green carbon – in timber, cod and thyme. We also strengthen our efforts to speed up the conversion of industrial transport through a CO 2 fund. It will rapidly reduce emissions and contribute to the roll-out and development of new technologies in one of the sectors that can contribute most. Norway had not been the country we know without the use of natural resources. They have been crucial to geographical and social cohesion, but also to curb climate change. The pure Norwegian hydropower is an example of this. Where others face major challenges in transforming their energy use, Norway already has mainly clean energy. Forests are nature's own carbon capture and storage system and should be used more actively in climate action, contribute to new industrial ventures and global green value chains. Everything that can be made of oil can also be made of wood. It involves enormous opportunities, in Norwegian resources. That is why we are strengthening the work on forest planting, cropping and climate action in forestry. The potential for carbon capture is enormous, and a plan for how to use the forest as a climate action should be launched as soon as possible. The one-sided focus on protection does not lead us further in the green shift. This year, too, the government does not seem to be taking into account concrete national impacts of climate change. Climate change is here, and with them major damage and thereby greater damage potential and large costs for individuals and countries. Both the NVE and the KS have reported almost annually that the government’s arrangements are not working. Therefore, in line with the NVE recommendations, the centre has increased the allocations for flood and scrap prevention by 250 million. kr in our alternative budget. Another important issue is the balancing of network rentals. The regulatory authority has now submitted a report which concludes to a small extent. We are going to follow the matter carefully. A new model must provide for predictability and better distributed network rental across network carriers, geography and subscribers. Before the government adds a model or solution to the table that will take care of this, the mission has not been resolved in the view of the Centre Party. Finally, it is later to rule a broad consensus professionally and politically that wild boar is an undesirable species in Norwegian fauna. The centre party is pleased that an action plan has been put in place against wild boar. Taking into account that there is already an established strain in Norwegian areas. as well as the formidable breeding capacity of wild boar, there is an urgent need for effective measures to limit and keep the population out. Our neighbouring country Denmark has, for example, built a seven-mile fence against Germany, which is now completed. The government has not earmarked funds for such measures, and it may seem later to think that the wild boar should be intimidated by the plan itself. So the center part has a total of 10 million. to implement the plan and further measures. I'm taking up the proposal of the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e563	The representative Ole André Myhrvold then addressed the proposal to which he referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e570	Over the period 2013–2019, the Regeninga Solberg has had an overarching policy to move out jobs to the districts or to have job creations come elsewhere than in Oslo-Grayta. For us, it is important to use the whole country. This is good rural policy, but it is also good environmental policy, as we establish jobs where people live. It is estimated that during this period we have established or moved out about 1000 jobs — and several are in the loop. In the Central Party's alternative budget, there are now several of the savings measures currently proposed, put in reverse, and implicitly this will lead to the closure of public services in the districts. I mention the part of the Adjustervessene at Kjeller, the section of the Maritime Directorate in Haugesund, the closure of the Royal Council in Hønefoss, the section of the County Council – and the list is much longer. I would like to ask the representative if this is the Central Party's response to enough had other expectations, as the rhetoric has been what he has been. [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e579	Thank you for the question. Now it's like a bureaucrat is a bureaucrat, whether he's working on the inside of Ring 3 or he's working in the Board of Directors at Hennefoss. The centre party wants to lay down the Board of Governors. We think it's a directorate we don't need, and then it's kind of been wrong to use it as an argument that there's district-friendly jobs. We believe that the jobs to be moved out must also be meaningful and must be part of the government of the state under which the Central Party wants to build up. Councils of the type Board of Regulators and other additional bureaucratic arrangements wish to further streamline the Centre’s efforts.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e586	The last Central Party ruled the Ministry of Oil and Energy, was one of the party's great visions that Norway would become a significant exporter of pure Norwegian renewable energy to Europe. Norway was supposed to be Europe's battery. If you were to translate it into such a central participative language, it would probably be the way the Center Party wanted to sell our inheritance silver to the rest of the world. This was later followed up by Ola Borten Moe to realize two large power cables for Germany and England – yes, he was actually also positive to build power cables for Scotland. I have a feeling that the Central Party has changed some policy in this area since they were thrown out of the department. Is it that the Central Party has gone away from its vision of selling the heir silver to Europe?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e594	Thank you for the question. The centre party is concerned that Norwegian clean energy should be a competitive advantage. We've always been. But it's not like the Center Party has been against any kind of power exchange. What the center party is now ready for is that now we have built up a certain capacity, an exchange capacity. Now we want to look at experiences of the capacity that already exists, or is under construction. The centre party also stopped the NorthConnect concession in its time. Now we're excited about what the government is going to do about this, but we're going to come back to it in another debate later today, so then we're going to have the opportunity to light up the NorthConnect connection.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e603	The representative Myhrvold talks a lot about forest resources, which is a great opportunity for Norway in many ways. But I also want to follow up on the electrification, because I want to show off to the Center Party, which in the 1990s, with Eivind Reiten as Minister of Energy, went into the rush to create the power market we have in Norway and in the Nordic countries today – creating a market, establishing a power exchange, building exchange cables. Today, we see that the Center Party is going completely in reverse and will build almost an electric power grid around Norway, when we really need money less than ever and more than ever to work together in Europe to reduce the climate load. What's the reason for that reverse operation from the Center Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e612	It's not like the Center Party wants to reverse, but we want to draw experience from the exchange cables that exist today. We are also of the clear opinion that Norwegian clean energy is a competitive advantage for Norwegian power-intensive industry and Norwegian consumers. The comparative advantage, or the competitive advantage, we want to take care of. I am pleased that the representative Kjenseth also takes up this with forest. It might have been interesting to ask back why the government is so focused on unilateral forest protection and does not see the forest as a climate policy measure.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e619	Do they know that there's a little wind in the hall? There's a little bit of a drag here. It is the wind that comes from a great cloak that turns after him. Last year, when the centre party was in the Chamber here in this debate, they joined the decision that Norway should come with an instrument to prevent the sale of biofuels with a high risk of deforestation. This proposal has its own policy. It has been suggested that a user charge should be imposed, so that no longer is free of the ban on placing palm oil on the tanks of Norwegian fuel sellers. But the centre party's alternative proposal goes against and does not come up with any new proposals or other suggestions on how to get rid of that palm oil. What is the reason why the Center Party no longer regards the rainforest as a climate policy instrument?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e628	The centre party is responsible for the effort that Norway has made in the rainforest. It is not true, as the representative Storehaug says, because regardless of the government's introduction of the biofuel tax, the palm oil percentage in Norwegian biofuels has fallen by two thirds in the last year. So this has gone by itself, and then you don't have to add any further stone to the burden on the development of biofuels in Norway, which has otherwise been positive. The government's original proposal would help to make what was formerly a floor, now becomes a roof, and then we'll see how this new, adjusted proposal by the government turns out when you come up with better thoughts.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e633	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e638	The year we are soon behind has been a solid inspiration. Not least, millions of young people around the world have given hope. At the same time, every research innovation about the climate crisis is very depressing. Last night, there was news from the World Meteorology Organization. They say we're moving towards a new heat record for the decade that's about to end. The decade that is soon over will most likely go into the history books as the warmest since the measurements began. Since 1980, every decade has been warmer than the previous, and most of the evidence suggests that it also applies for the decade from 2010 to 2019. And the head of the meteorological organization said, ‘If we do not take immediate action to combat climate change, we are moving towards a temperature increase of more than 3 degrees towards the end of the century, with increasingly harmful consequences for human living conditions.’ This was his serious message to the climate negotiators who are now gathered in Madrid. Before the 2017 elections, SV presented a plan on how Norway could achieve its climate change targets for 2020. Unfortunately, the majority of Parliament has chosen to vote against the proposals we have promoted. Instead, the government parties have with firm hands directed towards a breach of Norway’s 2012 climate targets. In the SV's draft budget, we start the transition Norway needs to undergo. We make pollution more expensive, while implementing a redistribution that makes those with the lowest incomes come out better. This is called a green folk bonus. In the SV's alternative budget, we are promoting a number of proposals that will make it easier for people to live environmentally friendly, which will help the industry with the transition we need, and which will make us less dependent on oil and gas in the years to come. Of the things we are proposing, there is a system of support for electric car charging in housing laws and joint ventures. We propose that Enova set up an industrial programme to implement rapid emission reductions in industry, and we propose a strong increase in support for environmental competence in municipalities. The municipalities will play a key role in the years to come when emissions are to be cut, and then we will also need more competence in the municipalities to do these things. If we take these grips, we come up with real answers to the challenges we're facing, for which many people are concerned. Then we show that we take the climate-stripping young people seriously, that we are not content to pat them on our shoulders, but that we are actually promoting proposals that cut emissions. I also have to get a fast watch into the palm oil and the biofuel. In recent years we have seen a large consumption of palm oil for car traffic in Norway. The government's original proposal to impose a user charge on all biofuels sold outside of the turnover requirement would have been a step on the road to prevent us from operating with an orangutan on the tank. The problem is that it would also put an end to increased sales of environmentally friendly biofuels. Collective societies and others who want to use more environmentally friendly biofuels than they are imposed would be punished on their wallets. Therefore, the SV’s proposal to introduce a user charge, but to compensate those who can guarantee that they run palm oil free or ‘orangutan free’, is a good proposal. In addition, we have proposed that palm oil-based biofuels should not be counted within the scope of the marketing requirement. Unfortunately, this was voted down in the debate last week. This indicates that the government has no desire to drive palm oil free. I am addressing the suggestions that SV is behind that have not already been addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e658	The representative Lars Haltbrecken has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e665	I would like to thank you for the post of the representative Haltbrecken. We are behind the financial debate, where the Workers' Party used most of its criticism of the government's budget proposal to criticise the increase in emissions tax. It was the Workers' Party's entrance to the financial debate. Then we have the Central Party, which is opposed, and we are intriguing with almost any climate action, and which is the only party on the Stortinge that voted against the first truly internationally binding climate agreement that has been concluded with the European Union. Nevertheless, the Socialist Left Party and the Audun Light Background go out and say that they will now show how agreed they are on the left side of Norwegian politics; they will prepare for a red-green government. [[The President clubs.]] Why does he really want to cooperate with parties that are opposed to climate action and the higher price of emissions? [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e672	I thank you for the question. Let's say that with the climate crisis we are now facing, pollution cannot be cheaper. Pollution must become more expensive in the years to come. The representative Heggelund will also see that SV proposes far more in its budget than the government parties do, which corresponds to its increase in, for example. the charge on petrol with an equivalent reduction of second places. Then it is that the red-green parties have previously cooperated well on important climate policies. I dare remind the representative Heggelund that one of the most important climate measures Norway is behind, the effort to preserve the rainforest [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e681	There was no answer to the question at all, and I just want to say, ‘worked well’ – ‘good’? It's clear that I don't know what that word means, because it wasn't my impression of the climate cooperation that was in the red-green government. On the contrary, it is the bourgeois majority that has strengthened the climate policy of Norway for six years. But then the representative Lars Haltbrecken says that it is not relevant for him that the price of emissions goes down. He wants the price of emissions to be higher. Let me now ask the question as follows: Is there an ultimate demand from the Socialist Left that the CO 2 tax, the price of emissions, should be raised in any red-green government? How, then, has he intended to deal with the disagreement with the Workers' Party and the Centre Party? Is that an ultimate requirement?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e694	I must say, I am amazed that the representative Heggelund can stand here and claim that the bourgeois government has strengthened climate policy, all the time that has been spent with steady hand in breaking the climate goal that Norway set itself in 2012. We have also heard earlier in the debate today that the representative Heggelund has tried to blame the red-greens for this breach, but I dare remind the representative Heggelund that from 2012 to 2019, the Solberg government has been in power for most of the years. The red-greens sat with power only one year after this climate agreement was concluded. So the answer to the challenges faced by the representative Heggelund is both to increase the price of pollution and, at the same time, to redeploy the tax system, which means that the poorest come out better. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e703	I ask that speaking time be observed.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e708	Camera Haltbrecken and SV are clear in their climate exposure, and they should have all credit for that. Although there's a lot of talk about what's happening nationally, I think we agree that what will determine the outcome of the climate situation is what's happening internationally. The Paris Agreement provides that large emitters such as China and India are not affected. It suggests that if growth continues for the next decade, until 2030, India and China will release 5,000 million tonnes more than they do today. The whole effort made by Norway and the EU will have reduced emissions by 900 million tonnes in 2030, i.e. one-sixth of what China and India are responsible for. What will the representative Haltbrecken do to address this?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e715	Fortunately, both in China and India, we now see an increasing commitment to cutting greenhouse gas emissions. China announced yesterday's ambitious target for the sale of electric cars at the expense of fossil cars. One might say that China is trying to follow Norway. I am not in doubt that the developments we have seen in China with more focus on clean energy will continue in the years to come, but I am also not stranger to the fact that we are going to be involved in setting emission requirements also to the rapidly growing economies, so that they get more stringent international commitments on emissions cuts than they have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e720	First for biofuels: the representative rotates a little bit with models here. First he praises the government for presenting a model that will phase out palm oil, and then he criticizes them to revise it. The revision consists of raising the incorporation requirement from 20 to 25 pst. We're tightening it up -- there's going to be more biofuels on the tank. The only change is that we're postponing the introduction to 1 July. What is my question is why SV does not want to use international cooperation, particularly with the EU, as a major instrument in climate policy, nor does it specifically mention private business. I think SV gets very little out of their tax increases, and that they prevent business from contributing, because it is those who will become a big player here. Next week, the EU will launch its European climate bank, and capital will become an important part of it. What will SV do to speed up the green shift in business?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e727	I must first comment on my criticism of the government's biofuel policy. It is quite right that I said that the imposition of user charges would help prevent palm oil from coming on the tank. The problem is that the government abandons it and increases the sales requirement without requiring that palm oil cannot be sold within the scope of the marketing requirement. And that's the whole problem. Without making such demands, we can increase the sales of palm oil next year. SV has been at the forefront in order to ensure international cooperation against the climate crisis, as opposed to, for example: one of the government parties with which the representative Kjenseth governs, the Progress Party, who voted against Norway joining the first international climate agreement, namely the Kyoto Protocol. So to the question of business. Yes, SV is involved in making demands, among other things. in public tenders, to ensure that industry is able to develop zero-emission solutions and that they are put into service.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e736	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e741	Of all the technical debates we have during this state budget debate, it is the best and most important one for the Committee on Energy and the Environment. I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation. I would also say that what's good to notice during the debate is that we have a common understanding of what are the major challenges. Climate change is here, we are in more extreme weather, and other places in the world are already so that people live their lives in flight because of the climate change that happens. Biosystems are collapsing, and we are forced to pursue an offensive policy where Norway takes an offensive role in being able to prevent and limit the climate change that is, as much as possible. The bottom line is that we manage our Earth's resources today, and that we have a great responsibility to give the generations that come after us a good value to take care of, but that we also have a responsibility for those of our fellow human beings who today live in the parts of the world where climate change is more severe than here, and where they have less resources to cope with the changes that are coming. The most important thing that has happened now is that the vast majority of the parties on the Storting have taken important steps to make sure that we can do more to ensure the global climate. First, Stortinget has done a lot of important work on the framework for this debate, when we set up a climate law that makes the debate on Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions the dominant one on the day when the state budget is presented. And perhaps even more important is when the vast majority of the parties in this room are committed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions in cooperation with our neighbouring countries, both in the quota and non-quota sectors. Now that we have that agreement at the bottom, we can define measures and content at home, but we need to reach the climate targets through a mandatory common regulatory framework with our neighbouring countries. That's good. The rules I think might be going to debate in this room, because often it's a bit like this in the climate debate that one agrees on it and on the goals, and then there's a little bit more tension in the team when one comes to the concrete policy that this actually ends up in, and one sees what the consequences are. The big test we get when Norway receives a climate budget for emissions from individual sectors from 2021 to 2030. The budget that we have to deal with today is a step on the road. Despite the fact that we're not yet in the goal, the projections are going the right way. Many important steps have been taken in Norwegian policy this year, followed by this state budget. Nysnø gets 700 million. kr more, there will be a collective effort of 1.2 billion. kr and a railway bet of 1,1 billion. NOK 100 million. kr shall also be used for the start of electrification of the Trønderbahn. The CO 2 tax will be increased by 5 pst., and the level of CO 2 emissions has doubled from 2013 – at that time it was 229 kroner per tonne, now it is 544 kroner per tonne. One has a green shipping action plan of 100 million. kr in this State budget. The zero-eject fund is up to a billion, and perhaps even more important: from our common wealth in the state pension fund abroad, 80 billion has been withdrawn. kr from the oil and gas company of upstream. When, in addition to increasing climate aid and CO 2 management, we go too far – with the government's permission to start drilling from the previous time we had the budget debate, in the revised budget – it shows that one comes up with new measures, which are also the basis for climate projections going the right way, if they are not yet in target. Climate change mitigation efforts must also be complemented with efforts to improve climate change adaptation. The climate change that is, is already happening to us today, which the events of Christmas this summer was a powerful reminder of. It is important that we follow-up with high-perceived loops for both flammability and shear protection, which are sorely intruded. The debate around us also shows that we have neighboring countries who want our part of the world to go ahead, while the rest of the world now limps after and creates insecurity and disintegration in climate change. At this time, they're gripped by Norway over these years, more important than ever. We're in the front line, but we're not in the target, because we're going to do even more, and I'm proud of the budget that's being presented and that we're now debating.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e767	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e772	The Christian People's Party has a proud environmental history and has been concerned with both contributing internationally and setting itself clear national goals, but after the Christian People's Party has taken sides and has gone into government with the Progress Party, there is not much left to trace of that commitment. One would think it was due to compromises with the Progress Party, but what we've seen in the last six months is that it's mostly because of them themselves. The leader of the Christian People’s Party gave a speech earlier in the fall when he spoke of threats to human dignity. He started talking about right-wing extremism and ended up talking about the environmental movement. My question to the representative Storehaug is whether he agrees with his party leader that the environmental movement is one of the major threats to human dignity in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e779	We've had a few weeks behind us now where pulling up strawmen has become something that most people have criticized others for doing. The problem with strawmen is that they take a very fast light, and the agent Aukrust now does, is to contribute to a strawman. Because I have heard the speech Kjell Ingolf Ropstad held to his national government, where he did not talk about the broad environmental movement in Europe, but where he talked about individual elements. We have also seen it in this Chamber in debates that the Storting itself has had, when one has climate demonstrators who link themselves firmly in the main hall and who say that democracy and human rights are subordinate to resolving the great climate crisis that is. It's a concern that we have to take seriously because we're going to solve climate change, and we're going to do that within the framework we have. With democracy and human rights at the bottom, we can do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e787	Like us in the Central Party, the Christian People's Party has been concerned with the smoothing of network rentals, and during a debate directed by KS on Arendalsuka this summer, there was a cross-political agreement that the smoothing of network rentals was desirable, and now there is the government-appointed investigation on the matter. But the investigation bears the mark of not having any conclusion. At best, we might be able to interpret it so that there are larger transfers of the state budget that need to be made. Does the Christian People's Party want to continue to work for a model that is independent of annual, slightly random appropriations from the state budget, and does it agree to create a more equal and predictable model that provides good framework conditions for its stream subscribers?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e794	The representative Myhrvold has an exemplary involvement in this matter, which I think is an important reminder that the Christian People's Party also has good allies in the opposition when it comes to getting a more equal web rental across the country. What was the challenge in the past years, when one had a promise of the state budget, was that she had a somewhat limited amount, and that she did not solve the challenges that were at the bottom. One has now received a review, which has been carried out by the RME, and which is now listening, and I will not mean too much about it. But let me say that I agree with the representative in his earlier point that it is the political implementation here that is important, and there we have a government statement in the bottom which says that there should be measures to ensure a more equal web-sleep.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e801	Instead, the representative Storehaug knew a wind in the staging room from a mantle that turned. I also know a wind like that, but from the other side. Perhaps the representative Storehaug can clarify, because last year the Stortinget, on the initiative of the Christian People's Party, agreed, among other things, that the government should take action against the use of biofuels based on palm oil. The representative of Storehaug can now have the opportunity to stop the wind from the other side by telling us what measures the Christian People's Party and the government intend to come along to ensure that palm oil-based biofuels are not sold within the increased sales requirement that the government has announced.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e806	Some of the things that have often been criticised after we got a plural government, are going on that one was afraid that all the things that came from the government were just going to be settled on autopilot. The representative Haltbrecken was on the same ring as me, where there were good arguments that showed that the sales requirement from the government of 20 p.m. was due to be fulfilled last year. This means that Norwegian emissions from the road sector alone would have gone up a lot if one hadn't taken the grips that the four parties now have. I'm proud that we can make the kind of correction when there's new and good information to it. And then we've put in place maybe the most important thing to get control of Norwegian biofuels and what kind of biofuels are being sold, and we're avoiding a part of it with a high deforestation risk when we're now introducing the user fee, which means that it's the part that's within the sales requirement where the state actually demands, that becomes competitive, and that we meet when one also has a higher sales charge. And then we don't get the fasit that we can rule out everything before the numbers are reported in the next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e811	Unfortunately, good intentions do not cut emissions; they do. I'm also excited about the good atmosphere in the hall, but it doesn't make sense to agree with the intentions if you don't take action on the table. The figures speak for themselves, and there are two major emissions sectors in Norway. It's the oil and gas sector, and it's the transport sector. In the transport sector there should be 5 pst. increase in the CO 2 tax annually, which is the main measure of the government to reduce emissions. Unfortunately, the Christian People's Party, when they have joined the government, has agreed that when the increase is to be made through the petrol and diesel tax, it should nevertheless be compensated, so that the pump price is exactly the same. This means zeroing out all the effects of climate policy on one of the major emissions sectors in Norway. How can the Christian People's Party accept that?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e819	I think we are delivering good policies on both the two major sectors that the representative here is taking up, for example. when we have now been given the license to a large sea wind farm that is just going to go in and make sure that we remove a part of the gas generator that is on the Norwegian base and replace it with renewable power. It shows a grip when it comes to oil and gas. Then it is quite right, as the representative says, that the Christian People's Party has not been impressed by its primary policy on pump price in what is in the government statement. But I think this is such a debate where I also think we should talk with consent, because today, when you look at the number of people in electric car queues in Norway, the problem with the Norwegian car park conversion is not that there are too few who want to switch to a renewable option. The problem is that one has not yet received fast enough deliveries and car models that ensure that we can meet all the needs we need by 2025. So I think we'll talk with consent in that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e826	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e831	As many have been in the past, this year has been marked by the climate and natural crisis. In March, 40,000 young people demonstrated for a more radical climate policy, and young people have fought many times, both in Norway and in the rest of the world. For the first time, Norwegian voters believe that climate is the most important political issue, and yesterday, the Language Council ‘climate brews’ became the new word of the year. We can emphatically say that the climate issue has become a movement of people. The difference between good and bad climate policies is the pace. When the government is challenged by the fact that emissions are barely falling, they respond to their plans for emissions reduction in the future and that there will soon be another action plan to solve everything. Today, the Global Carbon Project launched its annual analysis, which shows that CO 2 emissions are expected to rise in 2019 because the use of oil and gas shoots in the weather. Since 2012, natural gas has been the main cause of the growth of global CO 2 emissions, despite the fact that renewable energy is a far more efficient way of producing electricity and we have available technology. One important reason for this is that fossil energy production continues to be heavily subsidized. The Norwegian climate barometer, which was presented barely a week ago, had several findings that the government should notice. 44 pst. the voters believe that more money has to be allocated to climate action. The Greens are going to spend 20 billion dollars. kr more than the government on climate in our alternative budget. 59 pst. Of the voters, we think politicians are doing too little to cut greenhouse gas emissions in Norway. The Greens will cut the emissions by 60 pst. By 2030, and we show through emission plans how it works. 10 pst. by the voters, the government will cast a cube 1 for climate action. Most voters agree with the Greens in climate policy. Norwegian climate barometer also shows a strong increase in skepticism about wind power on land. We've noticed that, especially in the last year. At the same time, the digestion of offshore wind power is increasing. It's exciting thoughts. The world must halve greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 in order to limit heating to 1,5 degrees. According to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, huge amounts of new renewable energy are needed to achieve the target. The International Energy Agency, the IEA, believes that sea wind will be among the most important renewable energy sources in the world in the future, not least in Europe. The United Kingdom has set a target of 30 GW sea wind on the pedestal by 2030. It's about 100 TWh, which is the adopted target of the Greens. That is why we are proposing to establish a sectoral agreement for marine wind according to a model from the United Kingdom. The same competence, the same people, that today delivers to Norwegian pedestal, can continue to deliver to Norwegian pedestal, but then we need the government also to bet properly and not waste the opportunity to bet seriously on safer jobs in sea wind. The Green Party shows in its alternative state budget how we can cut emissions by 60 pst. by 2030. In addition to sea winds, where we stand out with more ambitious objectives than anyone else, the Greens are putting heavy emphasis on natural and climate action. We are doing three major steps that really contribute to emissions cuts, two of which relate to chapters for which the Committee on Energy and the Environment is responsible. We use the environmental tax and tax exemptions to make it easier to choose environmentally friendly. We remove the oil subsidies, including the exploration fusion scheme, which will reduce investment and also gradually reduce oil sector emissions. And we're going to spend a total of 20 billion dollars. kr more than the government of climate action. The 20 billion. For example, we use kr. to electrify shipping, to establish 1 000 new high-speed charging stations for electric cars only in 2020, to strengthen carbon capture and storage, to establish a highly dependent climate fund for agriculture, and to propose a population pool for the climate, where private individuals can apply for subsidies to reduce their climate footprint. Support may include, inter alia: go to energy efficiency improvement at home or to electric bicycles, which we too many see replacing the car. Even Equinor acknowledges that revenue from the oil and gas industries will fall sharply in the coming years. It is becoming difficult to understand that the government is still clinging to the oil platforms instead of focusing more on renewable energy, the living renewable natural resources that Norway has, and everything else we will live on in the future. With that, I take up proposal No. 14th @item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e860	The representative of Une Bastholm has taken up the proposal she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e867	Thank you very much for your article. I believe to remember that the Greens/Greens/EFA proposed in June that 65 billion be transferred. kr annually to the UN Green Climate Fund. Not too long ago, there was a big headline in the evening post, with a double side and everything, where the Greens said exactly the same thing: it was going to be 65 billion. kr annually to the UN Green Climate Fund. That's $65 billion. In the Environment Party, the Greens' alternative state budget? They're not there.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e876	We have been clear all along that we believe it should be taken from the oil fund, which is otherwise to another committee. This debate shows me very clearly that there should be more representatives than the representative of Tore Storehaug and me sitting on both the Committee on Energy and the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Finance, because it would have helped to achieve the overall focus on the environment and climate in Norway. The 65 billion. As I said, we are financing from the oil fund. The oil fund today is growing more in the returns we have from investment than it is growing from fresh money from the base. And that doesn't mean that we're saying that it's going to be $65 billion. kr every year in the future, but right now we are in a situation where I don't believe that all the 65 billion. kr would rather have been inside the UN Climate Fund, but for climate aid, we say. Much of it should go into the UN Climate Fund because we are waiting for Western countries to make their promises and show that they have faith in that fund and to contribute to poorer countries' investments in both climate protection and climate solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e884	It is a useful clarification that the Greens have redefined that not all 65 billion. kr shall enter the UN Green Climate Fund. We double the effort there, because we think it's also important, but at the same time we want to control how the funds are used. We will also be able to spend money on things other than that in international climate work, and that is why we are also strengthening that effort in our budget. But the 65 billion. kr from the oil fund is not to be found in the alternative budget of the Green Party – not in the budget of that Committee, not in the budget of the Financial Committee. We checked it at the latest, and the 65 billion. kr is not to be found, but they may come one day. But then I'm wondering about possible future government cooperation, because it's not like the Greens have an alternative budget similar to some of the red-green parties' budgets. For example, for the Greens, it will be. an ultimate requirement for the Workers' Party and the Centre Party to increase the price of emissions?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e893	First of all, of course, we're going to use the $65 billion. kr from the oil fund, but the representative Heggelund also knows that it is not made visible through government budget items, because it is just directly from the fund. It is a radical proposal that I want a debate on, but it is not a problem that we do not make it visible, because we make that quite clear. I'm a little worried that such a big focus from the government parties' representatives is now about an alternative potential cooperation from 2021, all the time we know that the government is so poorly placed now to do the cuts needed in the 2020 and 2021 state budgets to be able to get on track at all for its own promises, to the EU, to the world society and to the Norwegian people. I would encourage the representatives of the government parties to be a little less concerned about whether there is any alternative to yourself, and be a little more concerned about what they themselves are doing to cut emissions already in 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e900	Biofuels have been an important investment for the government and an important measure to reduce climate emissions and gradually phase out fossil fuels. The challenge with this investment is, of course, the use of palm oil. There is a cross-political consensus that we want to get rid of all the uses of palm oil, and we even have a reduced bet to make it less attractive to use palm oil. Then I read in the Financial Institution's proposal No. 21, from the Green Party, which says that they want the government to ‘reverse the introduction of the excise duty on biofuels outside the placing on the market’. Does this mean that greenhouse gas reduction is so important that the Green Party does not care that rainforest is being cut down, or as SV would say – that you run with an orangutan on your mind?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e907	Proposals have already been made for criteria on how to silage biofuels with a high risk of deforestation. We believe that Norway must start applying the criteria, even if they are not formally introduced and yet imposed, and start charging fuel that we believe has a high risk of deforestation. Increasing the sales requirement, i.e. increasing the requirement for the amount of biofuels around Norwegian tanks before you are absolutely sure that it is not palm oil, or whatever kind of biofuel it is – if it has a high deforestation risk, we know that we are throwing the child out with the baby water – can even lead to more emissions than we want, even if it does not enter the Norwegian accounts. Therefore, we propose to reverse the turnover requirement and reintroduce the tax exemption on biofuels, but, of course, impose strict requirements on what that biofuel should be.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e914	I don't know if I completely understood that answer. When the problem has been that a user of palm oil in the biofuel, I would expect the Green Party to have put the lead in its proposal that showed that one supported that policy. When the Environment Party of the Greens is now only calling for the reversal of the imposition of the user charge for biofuels outside the placing on the market, will the representative not see that the risk of increased use of palm oil is greater than that of the government proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e919	I believe, for some reason, that the representative is confused, that much of this is in the financial committee's position on the budget. We voted there, for example. in order to reverse the imposition of the tax on biofuels outside the placing on the market requirement and we voted not to grant a tax exemption for biofuels with a high deforestation risk. So the Green Party is quite clear. I am more uncertain about what the government's position is now, because I feel that there has been a great deal of achievement in getting biofuels to become the solution to bring down the emissions from the transport sector, as it is difficult to use the charging system in the most rational, logical and obvious way: to charge high emissions of petrol and diesel more and make it easier for people to choose electric cars by rolling out charging stations, which the government still has on the conscience not to have done. What the government's solution here is, remains to be seen, for now it has been postponed to June. I am deeply concerned that the government has become so paralysed because of internal disagreement that we do not get proper emissions cuts from the transport sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e926	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e931	The world is facing three major challenges in the next decades: we need to cut emissions quickly to keep global warming down to 1.5 degrees, we need more nature, and we need to develop a global market economy within nature's resilience. In the government's proposal for a government budget, we are taking important and necessary steps in all three areas. In 2030 greenhouse gas emissions shall be reduced by at least 40 pst. from 1990 levels in cooperation with the EU. The government has also set a target of 45 pst. in the non-quota sector, and we are actively working together with the EU to strengthen the climate targets to 55 pst. The government has presented in the State budget an overall strategy to promote long-term low-emission development in Norway. In the strategy, the government announced inter alia: that we will strengthen the climate targets in 2050 to 90-95 pst. Cut, cut, That means that almost all fossil emissions must be cut from the engine case to the cruise ship. The 2020 state budget contributes to a greener, more modern and safer Norway, speeding up the green transition and contributing to reduced emissions and new green jobs. Taxes and taxes are the Minister of Finance's table, but I would like to point out that one of the most important things we do to cut emissions is to set up fiscal policies in a better and greener way. We therefore start in the year's budget the escalating of the CO 2 tax by 5 pst. increase and forecasts further increase towards 2025. We also remove important exemptions for the CO 2 tax for fisheries and industry other than those currently in the quota system. The government is strengthening the green shipping effort by 100 million. kr for speedboats and cargo ships. This is a follow-up to the Green Shipping Action Plan presented by the Government in June. The initiative is an important contribution to achieving the objective of halving greenhouse gas emissions for domestic shipping and fishing by 2030. By 2030, we will also halve emissions from industrial transport, and we propose to strengthen the Zero Emission Fund and Enova's commitment to zero-emission technology in maritime and land transport by 50 million. kr. Since this aid scheme of more than 1 billion. kr came into place in August, Enova has given an undertaking to support more than 3000 electric vans. Knowledge is essential for conversion, technology development and successful climate adaptation. We are therefore strengthening research in the area of 35 million. kr. The government also strengthens Diffi by 5 million. to work on an action plan to increase climate and environmental public procurement and green innovation. In the Granavolden platform, we state that we will increase support for climate finance. In 2020, the Norwegian contribution to the Green Climate Fund will double from 400 million. SEK annually to 800 million. kr for the period 2020-2023. In 2019, climate and forest activity increased from 3 billion. DKK to SEK 3.2 billion. kr. This increase continues in 2020 and is planned to increase funding for climate adaptation in 2020 as well. The government is pursuing an offensive policy to contribute to a green transformation of the Norwegian economy where we also take care of nature. To take care of our livelihoods and cut emissions, we depend on more nature in the years to come, not less. We must have good status in ecosystems, prevent loss of species and habitat types and protect a representative selection of Norwegian nature. The government therefore strengthens natural and outdoor diversity measures by 76 million. kr. A large part of the money is going to take care of the nature that is most threatened, to restore rivers and streams and to better manage the protection areas. Norway has a special responsibility to take care of wild game and wild game. The initiative also includes measures to take care of them. In addition, forest protection is maintained at a high level. We continue our efforts to combat marine pollution, including: to strengthen Norway’s international leadership role in this work. The grant scheme for the clean-up of marine waste and for preventive work is continued at around 70 million. kr. The work to clean up contaminated seabed in Horten port started this year and continues in 2020. Total State aid for this clean-up operation is estimated at 90 million. kr. Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions are a small part of global greenhouse gas emissions. That is why we are not just going to cut Norwegian emissions; we are going to develop solutions to be used by others, and also to contribute to global emissions cuts. Norway must take a leading role and show the world how it is possible to cut emissions while maintaining a safe, free and modern welfare society. Now, luckily, progress is in the right direction. Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions fell in 2018 for the third consecutive year and are at their lowest level since 1995. The involvement of the civil government in electric cars, new river ferries, more environmentally friendly biofuels and the phasing-out of oil fires are some of the measures that are now producing results. We must continue this effort to speed up emissions in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e971	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e976	The right-wing parties have had a majority in this Chamber since 2013. In 2013, they promised to strengthen the climate agreement. Since then, Ola Elvesuen has been one of the most important environmental politicians in the right party, and now we know the answer – during a month before the calendar shows 2020: it didn't become a reinforcement; it became a disaster of those goals. What does Ola Elvesuen think is the main reason why his project has failed in strengthening the objectives of the climate agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e984	Climate policy is undoubtedly strengthened. It's just to look at the areas where Norway is at the forefront. Look at the electric car results of over 40 pst. Look at what we were criticized for in 2016: a blending requirement for biofuels up to 20 pst. as quickly as in 2020 – now we see that we succeed. Look at what's inside of green shipping, with 50 pst. emission reduction up to 2030. There are 70-80 elf ferries now on their way into the system, and speedboats are coming. But these have to be built, and the technology has to be put into service. Many of the measures taken in recent years will be seen to be effective from the beginning of the 2020s, when they are actually implemented. We have also reached agreement with the EU on a common objective by 2030. It would never have happened without a civil majority, and we're going to present the plan on how to achieve the goals there, until next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e989	That was a strange answer, because the climate agreement is not primarily about instruments. It is about the objectives – how we should actually achieve what was Norway’s ambitions. The climate is not saved by various instruments. It is saved by what is actually the result of this government's policy, and the result of this government's policy is that emissions have not fallen, as Ola Elvesuen promised in 2013. Therefore, I try again: Why have the emissions figures not been in line with how Ola Elvestuen said he would strengthen the objectives when he went to the elections in 2013?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e996	Emissions and policy choices also have long-term consequences here. Consider getting this question from the Workers' Party when it is known that what distinguishes Norway from our neighbouring countries, is the large increase in the petroleum industry during the 1990s and early 2000s. I guess no one gave more gas in that development than the red-green government in the eight years. These are things that we still have with us. We now need to be able to have measures that allow us to collectively reduce emissions. We are able – and have been able – to reverse developments in transport. So far this year, petrol and diesel sales have gone down by 4 pst. And then blending biofuels comes in as well, and we're all in the front line in the transport sector. But we need to put in place more technology developments not only to lead here, but also internationally, to compensate for the increase that has occurred in the petroleum sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1003	You can see that Ola Elvestuen is desperate and doesn't have answers when he owes it to the red-greens. Now he's been a State Council for two years, and he's been the most important environmental politician on the right-hand side for six years. The result is that he has not come to an end. He cannot owe that to anyone other than his government partners, if any, because he has not made it clear. I understand that I do not get an answer as to why he believes that we have not reached the goal – except that it is the red-greens' fault. Then I will ask him another question, which is about the same thing: When Ola Elvestuen understood that we were not going to achieve the objectives of the climate agreement, and why did he not then come to the Stortingen to explain or present more policy, so that he could be responsible and do the job he was set to do – namely to achieve our objectives?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1010	I'm just telling you why we're there. Clearly, for many years parties are responsible for that outcome. Every year, we have come to the Stortinget – both in negotiations in the Stortinget from 2013 to 2018, with budget proposals and consensus there, and now with strengthened policies from the government in the budget, in agreement with the EU, on how to strengthen efforts towards 2030, and also strengthen the international responsibility that Norway takes, where we are also in a leadership position.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1015	The government budget of the Ministry of Climate and Environment states that in order to increase the brown bear population up to the stock target, the government will provide evidence that areas with a known presence of bear pens must be given priority to the bear until the national stock target is reached. This is, in the opinion of the Centre Party, a clear breach of the agreement on predators, which clearly leads to the introduction of evisceration in pasture-priority areas, even if the stock target has not been reached. My question to the Council of State is whether there is agreement in the government on this formulation, or whether the Department and the Council of State here have carried out a small labour accident.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1020	It is in the predatory game likeness that one must follow the two-part goal, and that one must also achieve the goals set, and there we are far below the bear. This implies the same thing as the majority has written in its remark – that even if you have a priority, there will be an assessment in the individual case, as it has been before, whether there will be withdrawals, relocations or that they will be where they are.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1025	I hear what the Council of State says, but with the wording contained in the State budget, it means, in practice, that the administration of bears will be extended. This will have major consequences for Trøndelag, which has experienced great losses to predators in recent years. My question goes back to the Council of State: Do you mean what you write in the State budget that there should be no possibility of taking out a bear in areas where there are bear bins?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1030	Yes, it's a priority, but at the same time it'll be an individual assessment, which I've blacked out several times on direct questions, and which is also underlined by the majority of the committee. Then there is a separate process in the Roofing Wildlife Region of Trøndelag and Møre and Romsdal, where they acquire new knowledge together with the Environment Directorate to see the appropriateness of the areas that are priority areas for bears. The area of the bear has been restricted by the predatory game name before. It's also a separate process in region 7, Nordland, which is located in the department, to look at the predatory areas for both bear and yerv there. There will be a decision of my own, and I will return to Stortinget in an appropriate way with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1035	I'm going to make a little confession. When the government’s proposal for a government budget was presented, there was an inner joy in me — an inner joy at the fact that some of the areas I have fought to protect along the coast of Norway, among others. Børgin and Skarnsund in the northern part of Trøndelag, were to have their protection decisions in the autumn of 2019. These were areas I fought for even when I was the leader of the Nature Conservation Association. There are areas that are important to take care of in view of the valuable nature that exists there. However, when the proposition on the changes in the state budget for 2019 came, it was stated that no protection decisions were taken for these areas in the autumn of 2019. To the NRK today, Ketil Kjeseth, head of the committee, says that there are ambitions to protect these areas. Will the Council of State promise that there will be protection decisions for Børgin and Skarnsund next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1040	As stated in the State budget, a proper look will be made at 2019/2020, but these areas are for final consideration in the ministry. I will, of course, come back and convey it to Stortinget in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1046	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1051	Petroleum industry is an important industry for Norway. It is also an important district industry. It is essentially an important industry in many ways. Let me give you an example of that. If we travel to Brønnøsund and take the helicopter from the base there 340 km northwest of the sea, north of the polar circle, we will meet the Aasta Hansteen platform. It's the world's largest savings platform and Norwegian engineering of the highest class, where we pick up the gas at 1,300 meters deep and bring it in pipes in large enough quantity to meet the heat demand of every fourth household in the United Kingdom. It has an impact on value creation and employment not only in Brønnøysund, but not only on the supply base of Lake Sand, but also on the climate, where gas is involved and phased out coal. Oil and gas activities are employed and contribute to activity throughout the country. More than 170 000 jobs are directly and indirectly linked to the activity on the Norwegian base. These people live throughout this country. They also live in my village, at Hernes in the Vesterålen, and without this activity on the Norwegian base my built look different. And even though it's particularly nice on Hers, this isn't especially for Hers -- there's a lot of places. Petroleum activity has been a carrier of the Norwegian economy since the beginning of the adventure in the early 1970s. This industry has definitely built this country. This year it is 50 years since we found the Ecofisk field, where it all started, which today employs 3,000 people living in all the counties of the country, divided into 240 different municipalities. Then Johan Sverdrup will lead this industrial and income adventure into the next 50 years. In the operational phase, it is estimated that Johan Sverdrup can employ more than 3,400 annual works per year, and the activity here is significant. Different suppliers in more than 80 municipalities across the country have, for example: had deliveries to phase 1. The government also proposes to grant 628 million. SEK to CO 2 handling in 2020. This includes, inter alia: research, TCM and the full scale project. The government has full pressure to follow up its ambitions, and we are maintaining the progress of the full-scale project. This is a tight timetable with little room for surprises, and therefore the government continues to aim for an investment decision in 2020-2021. It is essential that the demonstration project contributes to the dissemination of knowledge and to technological development, and then costs must be at an acceptable level. We have good dialogue with the companies, and my first message is that we follow the form, and we are building stone on stone. Extreme weather poses major challenges. This year, too, we have seen what kind of challenges severe rainfall can bring. The government proposes to allocate a total of 505 million. to prevent flood and discard damage to the budget of the Ministry of Oil and Energy. In addition, we're proposing $60 million. kr to Svalbard and Longyearbyen via the Ministry of Justice's budget. In order to increase predictability for accruals, we are also proposing a separate allocation of 45 million for the next year. to emergency and emergency measures. Here experience shows that it is important to get started quickly, just to prevent further damage.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1071	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1076	Earlier today, reference has also been made to the Global Carbon Project, which confirms that the use of coal is decreasing, while the use of oil and gas is increasing, that emissions are increasing as well, and that gas has been the main source of it. Council of State Freiberg and I agree that it is right that Norwegian exports of gas replace coal in Europe today, and that in isolation it is a good thing. But my question is how long it will be, because we now see that the new European Commission, the von der Leyen Commission, is going to be very heavy with a so-called European Green Deal. The European Investment Bank shall place a massive effort on the construction of renewables and withdraw from all fossils, including gas, by 2021. My question to the Council of State is: is there any indication that our most important market, both for gas and power, is saying that they should shift the focus from gas to power, which means something to us, or should our policy remain constant, regardless of what the market out there might mean?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1085	This policy has never been constant. It has changed as society changes take place in Norway and in Europe. Today, energy systems around the world are changing, including in Europe, because there is an absolute need to achieve the objectives that all countries have committed themselves to in the Paris Agreement. But let there be no doubt: when I meet my colleagues from European countries, there is nothing else they express but a concern that Norway should not be a reliable future supplier of gas, which is put quite concretely in the context of the need to phase out coal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1092	I am a little uncertain whether there was an answer to the question. I am pleased that the Council of State Freiberg notes that the world is changing – we agree on that. As I said, we also agree that this is how it is today. But the question is about the planning horizon and predictability. Council of State Freiberg is both Minister of Oil and Energy and therefore also Minister of Renewable Power and the opportunities that lie there. I still have no idea whether he believes that what is now coming too far in the von der Leyen Commission and the European Green Deal – which very clearly says that Europe should be completely decarbonised in the long term – gives us some guidance signal that we should perceive, or whether we are so satisfied with our current position that we do not have to deal with this as something other than a sort of background noise.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1099	At least I made an honest attempt to answer the question I got. A date that the representative really asks for, because when the energy systems in Europe will be converted into no fossil fuel – that date does not have Europe, that date does not have me. But what is quite obvious is that today there is a transformation, where the energy mix in Europe is more and more renewable. That's something that's going to intensify. There are great opportunities for Norway, like the energy nation we are, on the renewable side – sea winds have been mentioned here in the past. But what all the analyses confirm, including at the latest the International Energy Agency, is that gas is going to be important for a long, long time to bring about this transformation. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1106	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1111	Councillor Freiberg and I were both present when the director of the Energy Agency, Fatih Birol, presented the report, where he quite rightly said that gas is going to be with us for quite a long time. But I noticed that he was much clearer than ever before, and also pointed out that this is actually a problem, because we do not reach the climate requirements and now lies at three-four-degree heating. Then we see that in our most important market – which is actually not the world, but Europe, our neighbourhoods – there is now an ambition for a massive transformation. Then I would like to finish this round by asking the Council of States: would he like the EU to be happy to make the transition they describe in the European Green Deal?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1116	I want everyone who works to get to what we have to solve, happiness to. We definitely need that when we see where we are today, and what is the problem. But what we don't get by in a long-term perspective is gas from Norway, like, among other things. The International Energy Agency pointed out is important today and will become important. Then we also know that the gas we pick up from the Norwegian socket today is being discharged in the long term. In fact, if the challenge presented by the International Energy Agency at its conference here in Oslo is addressed, the challenge in the main scenario is that coal remains the largest emission factor in the EU in 2040. It shows some of the challenges we face, but Norway is going to contribute to what we can contribute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1125	Social and geographical cohesion has been a success factor in the Norwegian model. When it comes to power transmission, it's like those who have the energy production closest, most often have been those who have paid the most to get it carried, in so-called grid rental. The size has asked for an investigation, which we have now received from the NVE. That investigation, as I mentioned earlier in this debate today, is a little unclear as to what it concludes with, and will reach a hearing. However, if you are to interpret the report literally, you would prefer to recommend a budget allocation, as I read it. The government hasn't put any such allocation into the government budget for this year. Would it be appropriate for the Council of State to come to the Stortinget with an additional allocation to cushion the network in the revised state budget, or does he realise that we are in favour of a more predictable model that provides for a geographical smoothing of the network?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1131	The report referred to is the NVE's review of what the government has asked the NVE to do, which is to go through what kind of instruments can be used to create a different network lease from the one we have today. The NVE has sent it out to the hearing, and I think that the recordings that come out of this hearing are also important in the debate on this matter. Then we're going to come back to that request decision, as I described it in the budget proposal, when the government has concluded. The government hasn't. Now there's an NVE investigation out there that makes any alternative possibilities to do this. We'll see what kind of input comes, and then we'll conclude.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1136	We're looking forward to it. Another thing that's up to date is that to get the green shift, we need more electricity in this country as well. In recent years, power plant taxes and base rate taxes have made energy producers unable to afford, or are unable to count at home, profitability in upgrading and expansion of existing power plants. Earlier this fall, Vamma Power Plant opened its new power plant, which was a profitable project. Hafslund E-CO also has a similar project in Sarpefossen on the drawing board, but they are unable to calculate profitability at home. Will the government facilitate a lower base rate tax in order to achieve profitability in new projects for the upgrading and extension of existing facilities?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1143	The representative addresses an important question. The hydropower is the backbone of our energy system. It is today, and it is also going to be in the future. It's our legacy silver, and it's an obligation to take good care of it. So the representative knows that a sample was set up to look at different aspects of hydro tax. The Minister of Finance, who has this matter, has sent it to the hearing. The hearing will last for the year, and when the consultation period is over, the government will conclude. It is important to upgrade hydropower, and I can confirm that a few weeks ago I was in Verma at a completely kidney-rehabilitated hydropower plant. It was great to see how renewable clean power is being taken care of.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1152	Governments spent a lot of their time talking about the further development of the oil and gas sector in Norway. We have also heard earlier in the debate today that there is a heated debate going on in the government, between the government parties and their youth parties, about oil drilling in the North Barents Sea and the borders of the ice-cream zone – a debate that Mr Heggelund of the Right likes to welcome. Minister for Climate and Environment Ola Elvesuen has previously said that the ice edge zone needs to be pulled south – a position we in SV fully share. The representative of Halleland has been out saying that it has to be pulled north. What is the opinion of the Council of State Freiberg — where should the limits on oil activities in the north go?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1159	Over 50 years we have developed a framework for how the activity on the Norwegian base in terms of oil and gas should be. It's a wise framework, it's a framework that takes care of the different considerations when it comes to harvesting natural resources. The management plan for the Barents Sea is under way now, as announced by the government. The management plan for the Barents Sea, which will come to the Stortinget next year, will also shed light on the clarification around the ice edge, where the government will lay the foundations of what is being done in a good management system, among others. the professional input you're going to get.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1164	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1169	The world is facing major climate challenges, and we in the Energy and Environment Committee and the two state councils that are here today have a great responsibility to take Norway in the right direction. To achieve our goals, we need to rig the nation for challenging times in the future. We in the Workers' Party are concerned that we should have offensive climate targets and concrete measures and plans to achieve them. We then clearly need an industrial policy that can support new solutions and new industries in order to reduce emissions. This can be based on the knowledge we have with us from past times, and from industries we are already in the forefront of the world market. In the future, it will be increasingly difficult to get the social contract to continue with the industries with high emissions. With ambitious climate plans in countries by country, the market will change and demand less of these products. The government then has to work faster to give priority to the time it has to put in place for the new opportunities that lie there. To the former climate party Left, which unfortunately cannot be delivered very much in government, I have to say that it is interesting for our committee to follow. There must be more ambitious objectives to address the Left Council as well. At first he came to Stortinget with a big message about circular economy, which didn't have a policy for it. It was sent back to the government and has not yet come to Stortinget. Nobody knows when it's coming, and we're wondering what's going on. So while the EU has its circular economy plan, the right-hand government has not agreed with itself at home yet, after many years of work. In the opposition, we notice an increasing queue of economic operators wondering where the Minister of the Environment has actually been hiding. Another major issue that the Minister of the Environment is working on is getting a new landfill for hazardous waste. That work has been going on for many years. It started with 12 different projects that were under assessment. There's two left. It is difficult for the Council of State to land, obviously, so one has had an expert committee to propose how this is to be done, where one project is to be launched. Then you're left with just one, but you don't dare to clarify that either. That's why this case revolves around and around, while jobs are actually put to stake. This is what many people are struggling with. The councils meet at work in any case, but the employees who work, among other things, do not do so. in the 250 enterprises that depend entirely on getting this country. It is that Kronos Titan in Fredrikstad, among others, has 160 employees and a turnover of 1.15 billion. kr per year. If nothing happens, if they don't get a solution when the Lang Island is full, they will flag out to Asia. It is not a good industrial policy, and shutting down is not a good policy to create new jobs. As far as oil and energy ministers are concerned, he has recognized the importance of sea-winding, and we are very pleased about that. But it does not seem that he himself sees that he has an important role in this effort to actually achieve it. He has, however, sent out new sea areas to be consulted, but there is no indication of what framework conditions to deal with in the future, and that is frightening. The worst thing is that I don't think it comes with the first. While the industry shows that there is an urgent need to address the scope for creating a domestic market now, the Council of State does not have a response to what the government is going to do. But Erna Solberg, with her good drive and knowledge of business, has signed an agreement with both the Swedish Shipowners' Association and Norwegian Industry on five concrete bets. But it's the state council that has to follow up these points, and the industry says that nothing happens here either. So for green shipping, which it's important to get hold of. I'm very happy that the government has come up with policies there, at least it's a strategy – as you say. But here, effective work is needed to speed things up, because if we're going to renew the shortship fleet, get it more green and get goods on the keel, things have to happen. I have a Christmas wish that the government now provides predictable and good framework conditions for the new industries, so that it is possible for business operators to provide important solutions to bring the emissions down. Then we can get new industries with origins here at home, new value creation, new incomes to the community and last but not least: work for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1192	Right climate solutions should cut, not development. With the right in government, we suggest that it is worth choosing environmentally friendly. Green enterprise policy makes us happy in climate policy. And we're already doing a lot in this area: big bet on green shipping, where zero emission solutions on ferries and speedboats are now shooting speed, and last night, Westland made a decision to announce zero emission on fast boat offer based on framework conditions from this government. We also see that projects such as ZEEDS can become our new renewable energy stations at sea. In a few years they can see the light of day, and we will achieve the goal of a free maritime nutrition. Business sees the potential based on framework conditions as we have seen. Decision-making on emissions-free fjords has really taken momentum, and the business community is positioning itself to achieve these goals – it also gives growth to coastal sites. But we have other exciting industrial areas that have our names here. Floating sea winds are one of the technology areas where developments are fast, and after a while we see lower costs. The Ministry of Oil and Energy is preparing the opening of sea areas for renewable energy concessions and draft regulations to the Law on Marine Energy, such as: shall prepare the concession process for liquid sea breezes under preparation. In the first round, this effort is more about industrial development than about supply to the Norwegian power system. The cost difference between wind power on land and at sea is still significant, but we will electrify Norway and need more renewable energy. So the time will show if we can also make floating sea winds become part of the energy mix in the long term. Sea wind also means exciting opportunities where we can build on the competence of the Norwegian supplier industry, and Norwegian companies are world-leading within several sub-elements in this area. Ein has maritime cables, personnel vessels, underwater ROVs, mounting vessels, software certification, to name something. At the same time, we must take care of and not distort the nutrients already present, such as: fisheries. We also have a big stake in CCS. Every energy agency has CCS as part of the solution to reach our climate targets. Our efforts here can generate jobs and economic development while at the same time being involved in carbon capture and storage, which means that we are more able to achieve our and Europe's climate goals. Climate and environmental policy is not a Norwegian championship. This is something we have to solve with the rest of the world. Therefore, international cooperation is central to the Right's climate policy, and cooperation with Europe is one of Norway's most important instruments in the fight against climate change. Energy and climate challenges in the world can only be addressed through global cooperation. Politicians must ensure that business and citizens can solve this climate crisis together. The insurrection in France, where the yellow vests have got here, shows that we need our opinion with us to achieve our climate goals. Therefore, our objectives and means must be real and understandable to our citizens. We solve our climate targets best when we have the rest of the population on the team. The global energy and climate challenges create new challenges, but also new opportunities where our energy and climate policies respond in a way that is sustainable for the future. But I would like everyone to help connect the energy and climate debate in a better and more knowledge-based way. Here, both the position and the opposition are responsible for a common understanding of the measures needed to achieve our common goals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1215	The representative Storehaug said there was a cold breeze in the hall. I agree, because it's a little cold in the hall today, but it probably isn't because of the Center Party, I think it's because of the high power prices that this government has increased. But I'm not going to talk about power prices, I'm going – perhaps not surprisingly – to talk about predatory policies. I may be the only one who's going to talk about predatory policies in this debate, but if not, I'm happy to be surprised. Carnivores are a political area where major challenges have been seen in recent years, and unfortunately they only seem to continue. In the state budget, we see that the government is going in to increase the population of brown bear. The government will indicate that areas with a known presence of bear beets must be given priority to bear until the national stock target is reached. This is a clear breach of the predatory agreement, which clearly leads to the implementation of evisceration in grazing priority areas even if the stock target has not been reached. We have seen the same thing in the debate on predatory wildlife, where the government is proposing major changes. The regional predators have several times created headquarters for the government because they have followed up the Storting decision on how to manage predatory species in a professional and systematic manner. They also bring local and important knowledge into Norwegian predator management. The same is not exactly true of today's government. It must only be noted that once predatory policies have been removed from what has been decided by the Great Government, this is because the government does not respect the Storting's clear orders. Now, however, it seems that the climate minister has found the answer to this problem, namely fewer mentions, more specifically a halving of the number of predatory wildlife subjects. Perhaps it is thought that this will lead to less trouble and less attention to the government's review of democratic decisions. At least there will be far fewer members of the government to disagree with. In 2011, predatory wildlife subjects were part of the agreement and the whole system is to ensure local and regional management of predatory policies. The fact that the government is now obviously working on such extensive changes and has to halve the number of predatory wildlife subjects is completely in conflict with the predatory game deal. With the proposal now presented, fewer names, fewer members and larger geographical areas will be managed. For me, representing an improvement is very difficult to see. The question is whether the Council of State really wants the local authorities to live. Then it would probably have been even easier for the Council of State to pursue a policy in line with the Left Programme and with the Right and Advance Party as backseat passengers. The issue of predatory wildlife students and the local and regional management of Norwegian predatory policies is an important and central issue in predator management. This government has proposed major changes that the Central Party believes are a violation of the adopted policies of the Storting. We are used to the general government's argument regarding centralisation, including in the area of regional reform, but in this case the limits of the proposal for new topics do not even match the new borders of regional reform. I understand that those who live in predatory areas do not experience that their fundamental rights, such as security, are respected, nor that democracy is for them, because they are obliged to live with decisions taken by a large, unaffected majority without any of their input being taken into account. In this way, some voices and some groups in our country become less valuable than others. It creates inequality and is a serious democratic problem if this development continues. It's up to the government to decide if they will take this seriously or not. The fact that the government does not follow the predatory settlement, does not follow the two-part objective and, in general, does not follow up the decision of the Great Britain, is more than predators – it is basically about people's trust in the authorities. When the state changes the rules of the game along the way, when the state exercises power without a democratically anchored justification, the confidence of those who govern the country is weakened. Can the government live by the fact that parts of the population feel that their experiences are not respected, that their arguments are less important, and that their rights are less valuable? At least the center party can't do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1234	This budget was to be the last budget to achieve the climate targets for 2020. The climate agreement was concluded in 2012 and in 2013 the right-wing parties took over. They promised to strengthen this. Now, seven years later, we know the phase: there was no reinforcement, there was a breakdown, we're not close to being where we were supposed to be. Then it's actually almost not to believe that the climate minister doesn't have a single thought about why we didn't get there, except that it's the red-greens' fault. It is such a shameless discharge that it is difficult to take seriously. In meeting the greatest challenge of our time, I think everyone needs to think new, everyone needs to be involved and take their share of responsibility. And we in the opposition do that, the Workers' Party thinks we have to think again. That's why we haven't just created an alternative budget, we've created our own climate budget, which shows how we're going to cut as much as we've committed ourselves to. Where the government wants to buy allowances abroad in order to get free, we want to invest in Norway and do the cuts nationally. In our budget we show how to halve emissions over the next ten years. We want to invest in new technology so we can create jobs across the country. Norway can never compete to be the cheapest on pay, but we will compete to be the best on climate and environment. We want Norway to go ahead with capturing and storing CO 2. It will mean a lot to Norway's emissions, but it will also mean a lot to the world's emissions if we are involved and drive new technologies. Here the government has provided little other than party speeches, and we have already received notice of new postponements, but the climate crisis does not have time for it. We'll bet on environmentally friendly transport, which gets people and lasts where they're going in a faster and better way, but with lower emissions. We want to make a big effort on environmentally friendly ferries and on public transport, but then the starvation that the state politicians have met, where they have to choose between cuts in welfare, cut in the collective offer or places at secondary school, has to end. They would not have to do that if the Workers' Party's alternative state budget were adopted. We will also set up a CO 2 fund for business transport, so we can get to climate friendly trucks. Here the NHO, LO and the environmental movements are ready with a setup, but the government has melted the door again. It is a bad business policy, and it is a bad climate policy. We also want a greater commitment to the second major environmental challenge, namely loss of nature. And we will not cut the climate aid to the poorest countries, as this government has done. Now we're actually down in half what Espen Barth Eide and Heikki Holmås gave the last year in the red-green government, in 2013. Our climate policy is green because it cuts emissions, and it's red because it does it in a fair way. We want more electric cars on the roads and think it should be supported. But we do not believe it is right that the richest people who buy cars up to 1 million kroner. kr, shall do so without paying a krona in value added tax. We pay VAT when we buy bicycles, bread or milk. We believe that you should also do that to buy a Porsche that costs $1 million. kr. It's always worth choosing environmentally friendly, but we're going to end the sponsorship of the very expensive cars. Step Skei Grande believes that this is envying the rich, we believe it is an example of good and fair climate policy. You really don't have to scratch your head and wonder why this government doesn't succeed in climate policy. We have a government party that still has a seminar on whether climate change actually exists, and with government councils that believe that climate change is a kind of socialist conspiracy to increase taxes. We have another party leader who believes that the environmental movement is a threat to human dignity, and we have a prime minister who this week went to the climate summit without serving a single new message in addition to saying that in the case of the climate crisis, she would not have chosen exactly that word. This is not to rust Norway for the future. The results of this government's climate policy are internal conflict, there are broken promises and no great promises. In order to solve the greatest task of our time, politicians with greater vision and with more power of action are needed. To achieve this, we need a new course for Norway and a new government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1261	One of the main challenges we face is to get people involved in the changes that need to be made to reduce the climate pressure, while at the same time being able to create new jobs. People have to experience that it is organised to make good choices in everyday life, that they are allowed to participate when the company adapts or changes production, that as politicians we are able to prioritize what is effective, and that policy is knowledge-based. The Labour Party sees the need for energy and climate policies to build on business policy to address climate challenges and ensure value creation so that we maintain well-being. The petroleum industry has a unique productivity, and we have to recognise that it is demanding to replace that value creation with sufficient new, profitable jobs. We therefore need more knowledge to succeed in adapting to the low-carbon society. The working party is critical that government parties choose to reduce energy research programmes such as CLIMIT. It is critical that the government is also unable — even now — to put in place an extension of the research agreement to Mongstad TCM, which has actually evolved into one of the world’s leading research environments. We also need an investment decision to establish a full-scale value chain for CO2 capture and storage. Here, Norway has the opportunity to create a new industry related to the capture of CO2, which will provide both climate impact and profitable jobs. Indeed, it is the industry that has been the best to reduce climate emissions so far. It has happened as a result of the company's continuous ability to change, but also as a result of the fact that we have been able to make demands. But the industry has demanded that we be even clearer, as when we had the call for the coast route and now also with the speedboats. Norway has strong adaptive professional environments in many areas, but especially in the maritime, marine and energy sectors. It also includes the supplier industry and the power-processing process industry. But almost all conversion depends on the fact that we have enough power available. We need to be able to use energy more wisely, but also produce more renewable energy, so that we can be competitive in the future as well. It is therefore worrying that several parts of the country do not have sufficient power to meet the increasing demand from the transport sector, power-processing industry, hydrogen production, the electrification of the socket, data centres and new industrial activities. We have a polarization discussion about the use of natural resources. We've experienced that with wind power in particular. It's timely. Everyone wanted wind power when it was unprofitable. Now that it's profitable and with industrial opportunities, no one will have it anymore. Then I think wind power on land. We have to look at whether the distribution of what is created is correct. We need a stronger legitimacy for our policies, where we are much clearer about the relationship between values created, jobs and local anchoring, and we need to work more closely across sectors. The discussions we are now discussing on the distribution of power and farm tax, and which we are also going to have in terms of wind power both at land and at sea, depend entirely on the creation of justice in terms of compensation for the use of natural resources, and the transparency of the arrangements, while not undermining the principle that municipalities should be able to offer equivalent services to the entire population. Liquid sea wind opens up exciting possibilities. Wind capacity in Norway, and especially in our marine areas, is second largest in the world. We have world-class subsea competence and have every opportunity to take a global position. But we have to be able to manage the sea areas so that we take into account the fisheries. It is unfortunate when the petroleum management is not harmonised with the Marine Wind Energy Act, as we now experience with Tampen, where the fishing interests are perceived to be overrun by Equinor. Norway is a major producer of energy in oil, gas and hydropower. This means that other areas might get too little attention. I'm thinking especially of barley, which stands for 40 pst. emissions, and more efficient use of energy sources such as waste heat, forest — or waste, as it is called in Oslo — sewerage, agricultural emissions, etc. Wise political action is needed to put this type of energy into use.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1287	The Labour Party wants to facilitate climate-friendly transport across the country. Therefore, the Workers' Party is moving in to strengthen Enova to facilitate zero-emission solutions in the transport sector. An infrastructure must be developed for charging stations throughout the country and in the most central ports. There is a need to develop mechanisms to stimulate the construction of green ships in all ship groups. The Labour Party believes that business transport needs stronger instruments to achieve the objective of halving emissions by 2030 and to accelerate technology shifts. A binding environmental agreement on emission reductions will be an important instrument. The sale of electric cars has increased and continues to increase. Petrol and diesel cars are still losing market shares. Several choose environmentally friendly electric cars when they are going to buy a new car. Now there are almost 140,000 electric cars on Norwegian roads, in addition to approx. 70 000 chargeable hybrid cars. The lack of range for electric cars has long been an argument for not choosing an electric car. The car manufacturers have found solutions for this. Now the biggest obstacle is the lack of charging structure, and 149 municipalities are still without the possibility of fast charging. These are not equal opportunities across the country. The districts get the worst out of this statistics. That there are few places that offer fast charging leads to queues and higher prices. Finnmark County is the only county without high-speed charging networks – there is only one station in the Churchnes and one in Alta. The size has decided that in five years' time all new cars will be electric cars. It will be impossible to achieve in Finnmark, and today’s situation is unacceptable. In 2016, the first bidding round was, and no one applied for it. The government has not taken the necessary action, but has left the whole responsibility to Enova and high-speed charging operators. Although investment aid of 100 p.m. is provided, the tariffs on power and lack of support for operations are challenging for builders, so there have been four years without any particular progress. This summer, the deadline for Enova’s tenders to expand high-speed charging networks was extended in Finland. Only Fortum was searching, in cooperation with seven local power companies. They have made an offer with 25 charging stations covering the whole of Finnmark and Nord-Troms. It was estimated that the tendering process would be launched in August, but still, a little more than six months after the deadline, it is not yet clear whether any of the development will take place. Governments seem to leave the management and responsibility for setting up the necessary charging networks to Enova and the charging operators, and it may seem that Enova has little news to report. The working party will bring Finnmark to the transition to zero-emission cars. It's a shame the government is nodding and not sharing our ambitions. Several have obtained electric cars in Finnmark according to promises that a high-speed charging network would be built. The electricity car’s share of new car sales is about 11 pst. At the same time, many people cannot switch to electric cars because of a lack of charging networks. If Finnmark is to be involved in the transition to zero-emission cars, charging infrastructure must be in place throughout the country. I see that the Council of State has been present throughout this debate. I wish he could tell the residents of Finnmark that they can feel confident that they will have access to a high-speed charging network.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1302	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1307	An overall objective of energy policy is to ensure high value creation through efficient and environmentally sound resource management. In that way, my region, Agder, is in a unique position in the world. Today, the surplus of power we have in Agder is half of Norway's total power surplus, and it comes from renewable hydropower. This is unique in the context of the world. An important prerequisite for this is a forward-looking business that abilities and wants to make sustainability business. At the same time, Agder is a technology region with strong environments of competence, such as: The desert cluster, the NODE companies, the Agder Energie and the UIA. Agder will now use its position with renewable resources, excess power and competence to reduce its own emissions, but not least to increase the value creation in the region. The vision is to keep electrifying. Cooperation between Electric Region Agder and more than 50 private and public actors has agreed on a common objective. We have to make sustainability business and show the private business that green solutions can be profitable, rather than constantly choosing new regulations. Projects where each region and each municipality takes advantage and creates new values will be crucial for how we solve the challenges facing the world. Agder shall be a region for the development and testing of tomorrow’s energy solutions. The goal is ambitious, but fully achievable, and the work is well under way. We are about to become a global exhibition window for new climate and energy solutions. I would encourage representatives in this room to look to the south. In an increasingly interconnected world, Agder is almost the rest and represents an excellent opportunity for Norway to show its way into the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1326	I think that if the young people who were fighting for their future outside here had heard this debate, they would have become quite angry. So this isn't about what we did 15 years ago, 10 years ago, 6 years ago or last year, this is about what we're doing now, what we're doing next year, what we're doing in five years to achieve our goals so that the climate doesn't go bananas. We have to cut emissions, we have to create jobs that people can live on. It is possible to do much more than what we do today, and the government has not used the possibilities we have. I'm in the municipal committee, and the SV in the municipal committee takes responsibility for the areas we have so that we can cut greenhouse gas emissions and use our energy wisely. There we propose, together with the Workers' Party, inter alia: to change the guidelines for rural policy instruments, so that they contribute to climate action in the new jobs. I'm very surprised that the other parties are not in it. To the Workers' Party, which was up on the speaker's chair and talked about rational energy use: we suggest that we have energy-efficient, flexible heating solutions and do not use the power to heat up construction with. The government has now put to death the proposal that they have been required to implement. Now you're going to let out the heat and guys for the crow. It's stupid. Electricity is very important, and we have to use it for important things. We have proposals on how to use different subsidies into the housing and building sectors, so that rehabilitation, accessibility, accommodation and energy upgrades go hand in hand. Why doesn't the Stortinge agree? That makes sense, it will cut unnecessary use of electricity and unnecessary CO 2 emissions in constructions and installations – very sensible. We also take responsibility for the ability of municipalities, which are a major manager of this, and in particular of biodiversity, to receive compensation and help upgrade to extreme weather, but also have competence in their administration to deal with the important decisions they need to make in terms of the environment, biodiversity and climate. But the majority vote it down. Finally, in the case of ferries and boats: Yes, there are many tenders to be sent. SV suggests that all the increased costs now borne by the counties should be compensated for in the local economy, and we must do so because there is a large increase in the cost in the first years of this conversion. There's no reasonableness in that the counties are going to take it, but they're in advance now. Then you simply have to put that money on the table, so that the counties can afford to implement a zero-emission tender, and do not conclude contracts that will lead to emissions for many years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1342	The climate crisis is humanity's greatest common challenge. The Climate Panel report shows that although the temperature rise stops at 1.5 degrees on average, the temperature may be 3–3.5 degrees warmer on average in Norway. Neither is it obvious that we reach the goal of 1.5 degrees. It means very big changes in people's lives, and most likely the consequences will be more severe north as the warming is strongest as you approach the poles. The climate change we are already recording leads to lasting and dramatic changes. Climate change leads to more rainfall, more heavy rainfall and extreme weather. So we must be prepared for more frequent floods and escapes. The NVE has an important task of identifying risks and preventing and limiting the damage caused by flooding and slipping as a consequence of, among other things. climate change. It is important that NVE facilities have staff with the right experience and competence to advise municipalities and entrepreneurs and to assist with planning. Many municipalities have not carried out danger zone monitoring and can benefit from NVE in land planning to ensure against the risks associated with slip and floods in watercourses. In December 2016, the NVE submitted a report stating that today’s level of funding does not allow many hedging projects to be implemented. Furthermore, the NVE shows that increased appropriations could lead to a reduction in the cost to society of floods and events — both direct costs for the repair of buildings and infrastructure, as well as costs of accompanying and infrastructure disruptions. In addition, we know that many people who live and live in flood and racially exposed areas feel a great deal of uncertainty and fear. All experience shows that it is wiser and cheaper to prevent damage rather than repair in retrospect, which is confirmed and well documented, among other things. the Swedish public investigation SOU 2007:60. The investigation shows that the costs of preventing damage to roads and bridges due to pace, race, degradation and flooding were estimated to be about four times lower than by repairing. The need for increased appropriations and their impact is well documented. Therefore, the Workers' Party wants to increase the allocations for climate adaptation and flood mitigation. The grants will address climate change and extreme weather, floods and rapids, monitoring, prevention, security, equipment and knowledge. We have to make it easier for the water to find its way into the earth with green, open areas, let the trees delay the water and have a grid that takes away the precipitation. More rainfall and extreme weather are leading to increased pressures on the water and sewerage sectors, where there is already a major lag in maintenance and upgrading. The Labour Party therefore proposes 42 million. in addition to the government's proposals for climate action and adaptation in municipalities. We're increasing the framework for securing county roads, for securing highways and for the general county economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1359	Resources are distributed throughout the country, and it is important to use the whole country. The centre party is concerned with the practical measures on the environment and climate. Living in the pact with nature is about use rather than protection. Valuation based on green and renewable resources has built the country as we know it today, ensuring the development of technology, equality and much, much more. With a living rule of people, fair distribution and sensible administration, we can keep the values in claim. National and local ownership is an important part of the solution – without it acting as if government parties have taken it in. In the government, there is greater sympathy for European interests than for Norwegians. Short-term renewable energy is an enormous competitive advantage and a good thing for citizens as well as for travel lives, but did the government see the value of having popular governance in Norway during the ACER debate? No, no, no. So the government value of a popular and open process related to EU climate legislation and the impact on Norwegian forestry? No, no, no. And then we get another sad chapter for the maritime court: the NorthConnect foreign table. Why listen to local and Norwegian interests, believe? The predators want fewer of them, and they want them removed from the individual pastures. Furthermore, national initiatives for supplementary protection and wind energy plans without involving the relevant municipalities and parties are not reliable. You can't look at the districts as one big potential area of protection. People live and work there, too. The main climate action is at the seventh and last a total change in consumption and choice of individuals, municipalities and businesses. In our alternative state budget, the Central Party proposes several million kroner for climate action in the municipalities where people live. We want increased investment in climate research in agriculture, increased investment in research institutes – which makes us use the research – and to take an active carbon binder more actively in use: the forest. If we're going to get green investment, we need access to funds to invest with to get less risk and more success. This is what the Centre Party is proposing today because we have an enormous faith in the future. We have faith in a green and better society. We have faith that individuals can make wise and good choices when they have the opportunity to do so. We believe in carrot over whip.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1374	As I have been registered as independent during most of the debate, I allow myself to make some personal views in this climate debate. First, a statement: Had most in this assembly lived in the time of the Emperor’s new clothes, they had stood in the first row and rejoiced over the beautiful clothes of the emperor, where he walked naked around the street. So some factual information: a number of representatives have stated that we need to achieve the objectives, so that we can prevent the climate crisis. What can we really do? Absolutely nothing. Norway's emissions of the life-giving gas CO 2 are 0,1 pst. of the total emissions. That's 0.1 pst. of the 0,04 pst. CO 2 in the atmosphere. And of those 0,04 pst. CO 2 in the atmosphere, comes between 3 and 5 pst. from man-made activity. It's not even measurable. The majority of this assembly has had ambitious goals for years to reduce. What was said in 1989 about the reduction up to 2020 must have been more than half. What does the same majority have to do? Well, in 2018 we had exactly the same emissions as we had in 2008 – 35.5 million tons. Some Roses China. What is China's situation, which stands for 27 pst. global emissions? They have increased emissions by 199 million tonnes in a year. The sad thing is that the majority of this House is now spending 40 000 million. kr for so-called reduction of the life-giving gas CO 2 – money that could have been used to strengthen hospitals, strengthen districts, reduce taxes, reduce taxes for people most. A lot of people say, "Are there any scientists who agree with you, then, Hagen?" Yeah, I can name 500. ‘There is no climate emergency’, says the European Climate Declaration, signed by 500 named scientists – unlike the United Nations Panel on Climate Change, where government missions are located, not scientists, creating ‘summary for policy makers’, summaries for policy makers. They're appointed by governments, and they're negotiating formulations just like other politicians. It's not science based at all. I can give you 500 names. Gradually it's grown to 700. I don't have the names of the last 200, but I have 500 names on people behind it. The majority here do not seem to be able to mention the names of the people in the IPCC, the climate panel.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1403	In this debate, I have tried to get answers to what the government will do to prevent the use of palm oil-based biofuels. What will they do to prevent us from running with an orangutan on the tank? The reason I have asked is that next year the government will postpone the fee that could prevent the use of palm oil, and they will also increase the sales requirement. However, the government will not introduce requirements that exclude the use of palm oil. On the contrary, the government parties are in favour of repealing decisions aimed at preventing the use of palm oil in public procurement. A 2017 decision stating that the public should ensure that they do not buy biofuels based on palm oil, the government proposes to cancel, and they receive full support from the government parties in Stortinget. So the government will weaken its protection against palm oil. Government lots will weaken the protection of the rain forest and weaken the protection of the orangutan. Government parties are more concerned with making up their own climate policies than they are with global emissions and the world's rainforest. There is still time in the debate. It is still possible for government parties to say what they specifically intend to do to prevent the sale of palm oil in Norway next year. So far in the debate we have not received an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1412	That's right, representative Haltbrecken, that I'm coming right after you. I can help you a little bit to respond to what you're asking for. I said earlier, in the line change, that we have reduced more than 200 million litres of fuel with deforestation risk. This year we're probably taking out another 50 million liters, and we're approaching zero in Norway. We have no opportunity to prohibit fuels with deforestation risks for international trade legislation, so SV does not have that possibility either. The possibility we have is to impose user charges on all biofuels, and that happens on 1 July 2020. It'll take away the benefit of the biofuels we don't want. Another advantage is that biogas receives further enhanced benefits. Biogas is also not possible to trade between countries. Now Finnish State Gasum is on its way into Norway and will build several biogas plants, several filling stations. Biogas is therefore one of the answers that comes – along with advanced biofuels that do not come from the deforestation of rainforests. There's a lot of palm oil production in the world. It will be in fuel, and that challenge shifts Norway to other countries. This is the case, but we in Norway have gone ahead and shown that it is possible to take biofuels without, and at the same time to remove the fuel with deforestation risk. We are approaching the end of the debate. When we are in biogas, we also have a structural challenge. Everyone needs to be involved in the challenge we face in order to reduce the climate pressure. Today, we have a municipal sector that is quite small-scale and has no ability to build large industrial biogas plants. There is a debate that I do not hear anyone dare to approach. We've been through a municipal reform, but we haven't taken hold of the large biological resources that lie there, which we can't use in the municipal sector today. We have to look at how we're going to get them into the circuit. Currently, municipalities have the possibility of charging and liability. They don't dare bet. There is too much risk for many small municipalities, so we have to do structural action, and that also applies to the waste sector. When the representative Norderhus asks for a circular economy, the government is just working to put these structures in place so that more resources can enter the circuit and not get out.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1423	I would like to remind you that we do not use ‘you’ from the pulpit, we refer to the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1429	Norway is a rich country with some fantastic opportunities. If there is one country that really has the ability to implement a shift from fossil solutions to renewable solutions, it is Norway. However, if we are to cope with that transition, it is absolutely essential that provision be made for people to live, work and live a good life throughout Norway. That's the experience, the history and the knowledge that people have in the countryside and in the city of all of Norway in managing the natural resources, we have to build on in the future. With the policy of centralisation and the increasing taxes imposed by this government on people and businesses in Norway, it becomes more difficult to achieve the objectives we have for the conversion of the Norwegian economy. That is why we need a new policy, a new course that facilitates the exploitation of the rich resources we have in Norway, to an even greater extent. Not least, we need to use the rich forest resources we have, and make sure to plant, care for, cut and use more forests – to strengthen long value chains based on the exploitation of forest resources. We need to establish a green investment company that can facilitate the strategic integration of the state to facilitate new transformations, new investment on a broad scale, in order to bring in the new solutions. So to the debate on biofuels. The majority now do, firstly, that one is not willing to impose new requirements to prevent palm oil in the Norwegian biofuel market. At the same time, the operators wishing to use biofuels in the Norwegian market who also want to contribute more Norwegian biofuels and Norwegian biofuels production ensure unforeseeability. It is a very unwise policy, both for Norwegian industry and for the environment and the climate. We have to go in the opposite direction and make sure to cancel the increase in fees that affects, for example, important companies such as Yara and their ammonia production, which will receive 25 million overnight. kr in increased taxes, which will result in a shift of Norwegian production out of the country. We have to go the other way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1438	First, until the representative Haltbrecken: the use of palm oil goes down. Last year it was 93 million litres, and it is expected to be lower this year. We do a lot. We work closely with the industry on how to reduce the use of palm oil. We've put in place an advisor from Diffi on how to make public acquisitions of palm oil free. The Directorate-General for the Environment provides information on the content of fuels, so that consumers and other easier to follow. We also follow up on the processes within the EU, we work internationally for deforestation-free value chains, and we have close and close cooperation with Indonesia on how to better manage rainforests. Otherwise you might wonder something through the discussion. Today, it is clear that climate and environmental policies are driving business development across the country. We see it in all municipalities – along the coast with what we do to put in place green shipping, and with what happens with sea wind, and what companies it is that get the bids from Equinor when they start with Hywind Tampen. Within biofuels, there are investment plans across the country. We've seen it before in the case of biogas. Much is happening in the construction sector. The use of wood is increasing. A lot is happening in high technology, whether it is autonomous systems in shipping, or it is they that are fully in the front line with the charging of electric cars. The working party wants a CO2 fund, but a CO2 fund is a worse solution and would take longer to put in place than the government's zero-emission fund, which is already operating, and which provides significant support for smaller companies for the conversion to zero-emission vehicles – 3000 already since it was launched in August. We have to use Enova, it's an instrument that works. In Finnmark they will pay 100 pst. to be able to put in place quick chargers. They are negotiating with Fortum and are now also entering areas in Lofoten and elsewhere where there is a lack of fast chargers. Finally, the Centre Party, which will cut climate charges, which will cut forest protection, as proposed by the government, and which will not have additional protection either. It seems that no herds of predators are small enough for the centre party to be satisfied. They should take into account the core of the predatory agreement, namely that the two-part objective is to meet both the predatory game and the grazing industry. The grazing industry in Norway is viable, and we have not suffered any less losses to predators since before 2000.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1453	To the Council of State, it is well said that cuts in the voluntary protection of forests are largely offset by increased appropriations to bet on forests as climate action. And that's exactly where the difference between the central party and the left lies: we want to use nature as climate action, while the left one-sided rates of protection. This debate shows that there is a broad consensus that we are going to achieve the climate objectives, but that we disagree on the measures. The council said that even the engine story had to change, so I should talk a little about forest. The carbon uptake in Norwegian forests was 25 million in 2017. tonnes of CO 2. It corresponds to about half of Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions. If we don't do anything about the recording in the woods, it will go down in the years to come, and we can't afford that. Forest as a climate action is an effective measure, it is environmentally friendly and it is cost-effective. Estimates show that we can increase the uptake in Norwegian forests by around 2.5 million tonnes per year over the next 70–100 years. But then we must have measures and efforts, such as: denser forest planting, fertilisation and forest plant processing, which in turn will increase the growth and uptake of carbon. This is nature's own system of capture and storage. If we don't do anything, the recording in the woods and on Norwegian land will go down. We don't have time for that. Estimates made in a report by NIBIO, the Directorate for the Environment and the Directorate for Agriculture show that a forest plan with a potential for afforestation of up to 1 million. dekar, will provide additional recording – yes, as much as 75 million. tonnes of carbon up to the turn of the century without significant negative environmental impacts. It's strange that only the Center Party is talking about these possibilities as climate action. It is strange that the government does not focus on this effective, environmentally friendly and green environmental action. The Minister for Climate Change talks about the need to convert the engine saga, and we may need a different fuel for motor saga, but much more important is the use of Norwegian forests and land for climate change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1469	2020 will be a sad year for the green values. We do not achieve the climate objectives that were set, nor do we achieve the objectives of halting the loss of biodiversity. I have studied the state budget posts that affect the natural diversity in Norway, and there is no good reading. There are some small flashes of light here and there, but at all events no bet that will point out a new and correct course. In fact, the Minister for Climate and Environment may want something and try something, but all the good intentions are turned to the ground by the elaborate Monica Meland in the Ministry of Municipal Affairs, the fossil-freest oil and energy minister and the speedy and slightly asphalt-like Minister of Transport. There is no easy task for a Minister for Climate and Environment from the Left. There are many out there who don't understand what the left does in this blue-blue bed. The Natural Panel, which is as well scientifically based as the Climate Panel, clearly states that it is the wrong land management that is the greatest threat to natural diversity. I have addressed this issue in several contexts here from the pulpit, and that the grips that have deliberately been taken from this government mean that important natural areas are being destroyed, both as habitats for species and as outdoors for humans. It's going to be easier to build and build up, it's declared policy by this government, and it's certainly been. State Council Elvesuen can do something, sail if much of the cancers are undoubtedly going to put plastics on the wound for all that the hostile state councils are doing. But the state budget testifies that Elvestu does not take strong enough action on this sector, either because he does not want to, or because he loses his way into government in important areas. It concerns means of registration, protection and restoration of nature. It's tragic that we don't know what we have of natural values here in the country. Without knowledge of what is available of species and habitat types and where they exist, any natural management, any expansion and any forestry risk sports. Therefore, a nationwide ecological base map is usually absolutely crucial. So to what's being protected. The majority has decided that we, for example: shall protect 10 pst. Of our forest, but with the appropriations this government adds up to, it will take over 30 years to reach this goal. I must probably live as long as Helge Ingstad in order for me to experience it. It's too long. At the same time, a number of protected forest areas will be high. Equally important is protecting individual species that are threatened, and then we're talking about priority species, and that list should be longer than the government adds up to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1484	The representative Lars Haltbrecken has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1489	I hear that both the representative Kjeseth and the state councillor Elvesuen are trying to tell me what they intend to do to prevent the use of palm oil next year. Most of it is wishful thinking from government parties. It could have been said that palm oil should not count within the scope of the marketing requirement when it is to be achieved, and then requirements must be made for sustainability criteria to be met for the palm oil sold within. The requirements for the use of advanced biofuels could also be further enhanced. According to a report issued to the government prohibiting the use of palm oil, a ban could have been imposed. I read from the report: The investigation concludes that a ban on palm oil could be lawful under the EEA Agreement, the WTO legislation on public acquisitions and the relevant EFTA trade agreements and the investment agreements to Norway, as long as the State can demonstrate with sufficient weight that biofuel production leads to higher emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1496	I am proud to represent the Oslo Workers' Party on Stortinget – a party in the Workers' Party that has already decided in 2014 to introduce the climate budget in the Municipality of Oslo if we won the 2015 elections. We also decided to use the purchasing power to set high environmental requirements in municipal procurement. Both parts we run the Municipality of Oslo after today. Control tools are crucial if we are to get the green shift. The climate crisis is not a problem we can leave to anyone else, somewhere else at a different time. The crisis has to be solved by us, it has to be solved here, and it has to be solved now. That's why we took climate leadership and went in order for Oslo to be at the forefront of climate work among the cities of the world. To do that, we need to build higher, denser and greener. We have to make it easy to travel collectively, go or ride bicycles, so that people leave the car alone. Limiting queues, corks and chaos from car traffic is imperative in order to cut greenhouse gas emissions in cities. We went to the election to cut emissions. Oslo's emissions are going down. We wanted to use Oslo Municipality's purchasing power to set high environmental requirements and change the construction industry. The changes are on the way. In Oslo we want fossil-free construction sites. The next step is to get an emission-free engine park. The emissions from the construction sites in Oslo account for 22 pst. the transport emissions in Oslo and derived from the heating and drying of construction, construction site processes and plant machinery. We can do a lot with the construction industry. Demands for the green shift and more stringent environmental requirements. With the Workers' Party at the head, Oslo takes climate leadership – here and now, in our time. Now we have to show way and take climate leadership nationally. I am therefore very pleased that we on Stortinget for the third time have promoted a climate budget along with our alternative state budget. In 2019, we could expect responsible parties to show how Norway will cut enough emissions to meet its climate targets – just as the batches show how they will collect and distribute revenue to the community. Think if the government could take climate leadership on the international arena. Then we could stand in the first row and participate in an international climate bridge – something would have happened!
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1507	The weather in Norway is probably one of the things that makes us Norwegians. We talk a lot about weather, we're very busy with weather, and we have a lot of weather. In the Committee's position, too, very much attention is drawn to how weather affects local communities and the population, how rainfall has increased by 18 pst. Since 1900, and that rain is what is increasing the most, but that we will also get more smelter floods and increased avalanches. I just want to take this with weather and agriculture first, because there is no doubt that we must have food in the future as well, and that Norway must also contribute to this large community of both consumption and production. Then, among other things, we must: have an active pasturage that allows us to have Norwegian food on Norwegian resources. It assumes that we have a field we can use, where the grazing animals get out, and that we also have research environments, such as NIBIO The onion, where knowledge has been built on the relationship between grazing and CO 2 emissions that have been groundbreaking. Active policies for the protection of ants have also been a problem for agriculture, and one almost forgets how ants are an important basis for both innovation and active development in many places in the country. Of course, it is okay as long as it is not agriculture, but agriculture must be stopped. Then it's back to the weather. The Climate Risk Committee believes that the natural damage regime should be more targeted against prevention. Overwater is a problem in cities and agglomerations, but not least in the districts where race and migration can be a threat to life, and building damage caused by floods and floods is replaced annually by about one. 2 billion. kr. There is no doubt that the effort needs to be made here. I can refer to Skåk Municipality, which last year had a flood in October, which was quite incomprehensible and totally unexpected and nothing the community was equipped to resist. Fortunately, we were able to set up, but it shows that prevention needs to be much better. Weigh the municipality, which is a neighbouring municipality up in the Ottawa Valley, with TEK17 has now regulated its entire center, Waggåmo, so that it is almost the construction stop after the TEK17 requirements where eleven Finna run through. Then there is necessarily protection and stopping what kind of action you can potentially do, which is a huge problem and perhaps hinders the further development of this community. That's why the Center Party believes that we need more funds for step-by-step and flood prevention, and we're adding 550 million. kr. In addition to what the government is proposing, it has to do with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1523	We have a government that increases the differences. The 5,000 in the income summit have had a wage growth that is three times greater than the rest of us, while the proportion of households with poor advice is increasing. When the differences increase, it weakens the community. At the same time, we know that we have little time to avoid dangerous climate change that threatens our existence and the existence of natural diversity. If we are to achieve the Paris Agreement's objective of limiting heating to well below 2 degrees globally, according to a new UN report, we have to cut 7.6 pst. Every year for the next 10 years. Recently celebrated Left that Norway has cut emissions by 0.9 pst. in 2018. So to show on social media dividers that the graph went down, the left hand trick had to be a little bit of its x-axis. Red protects more forest, restores more moor and clears more plastic from the sea than the government does. We want to avoid opening up new oilfields that are going to be producing decades into the future, and we want to bet on liquid seawinds, deserts, climate action in industry and green conversion. We cannot wait to cut greenhouse gas emissions, and therefore we must do so in a way that strengthens the community. We have to bring down inequality and emissions at once. We can pursue a policy that is at once good for the environment and for people with poor advice and in the districts, as shown in our alternative state budget. There we increase the CO 2 tax to reduce emissions, but – that is an important but – over 3 billion. kr goes right back to people in the climate discount, and we reserve that for those who have low and average income. This will reduce emissions and at the same time reduce disparities and give more to those who have the least in Norway, as well as to those who live in the districts. Red will also cut flat fees that affect non-socially. The government has increased the lowest VAT rate to 12 pst. It makes public transport and experiences like cinema, museums and sporting events more expensive. Red cuts the fee to 10 pst., and we cut the VAT on Norwegian-produced fruit and green to the same level and cut it completely away for repairs. In this way it will be worthwhile to choose environmentally friendly. We also remove the one-off exemption for heavy and expensive luxury cars and hybrids. We cut the emissions and get the inequalities down at the same time. That is at the heart of Red's environmental policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1539	Councillor Elvestuen stood on the pulpit here instead and boasted of an environmental change in the companies. Yes, there is a lot of good work in Norwegian business based on the knowledge, competence and will that lies there. But then a wise will to play along with and listen to business. In this government, there has been a notion that green shifts are equal to increased charges, but green shifts are about getting emissions down, and increased charges contribute in many ways to the opposite. Only in this budget are a number of enterprises around Norway that will be subject to significantly increased overnight charges. It will make it more difficult for them in the job they will do to make Norwegian business, Norwegian industry, even more environmentally friendly than it is. The Norwegian industry is already the world's purest. They do a job year after year to implement actions, and they want to cooperate with the authorities to do even more. Then there will be a blow in the face when a person receives new taxes such as those on businesses that contribute to recycling and recycling in their production. In the porcelain production of Figgjo uses all the mass that is left, recycles, and uses it for new production. The company Metallco Aluminium uses aluminium scrap in its production. They should be encouraged and strengthened and should not experience new charges. Yara, with her ammonia production, gets 25 million overnight. NOK extra in fees. For an enterprise that is in strong competition with foreign actors, this could lead to shifting jobs and value creation out of the country. It's a peculiarly unwise policy. To the Council of State Elvesuen, which says that the model for the transport of food, such as: The centre party is in favour, is a worse solution than the government wants: a single business and environmental organisation has wanted to use a well-tested model that one has had for NOx over many years, and has been willing to enter into commitments to reduce emissions. The government sits here on its high horse and says that no, they know best, they have a model – in stark contrast to what business and environmental organisations want. Therefore, they should have provided a new solution that can contribute and that can interact with business.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1548	I am happy predators have already been a topic in the debate. It is an important theme for those affected by the unfair predatory management of the government today. I am so stated when I once again sit in the hall and hear the council go to the pulpit and say that it works so well with the two-part goal of the predatory settlement, because we have less loss of predators than ever, and there are fewer animals being taken now than before 2000. It's a truth that has a very sad explanation, which the Council of State consistently leaves out to mention. I was in Rendalen on Monday, and there I met, among others. Sheep's bones. In the Rendalen, there were almost 50 sheep farmers in 1998 – that is, before 2000, to which the Council of State referred. Today there's 11 left. This is outside the wolf zone, in grazing priority areas. It is not very strange that the losses to the wolf go down when there are almost 40 sheep farmers who have stopped having sheep in that municipality. Then the Council of State can show great statistics, but yet I would say that the administration has failed when almost 40 sheep farmers in a grazing area have had to give up. Of the 11 that are left, few are big, some are hobby farmers, and those that are doing are almost giving up now, because the situation is so difficult. I wish the Council of State could start talking about the reality that's out there, instead of trying to encapsulate reality and provide statistics that sound good, but when you get to know what's behind the statistics, it's actually very sad, and shows that the follow-up to the looting agreement is wrong. Then I have to get into wild boar. There is a great contrast between wolf and wild boar, because where the wolf is made as a most sacred animal – if you kill a wolf, it is catastrophic – wild boar is an animal we have to kill much more than we do now. We need an eradication plan for wild boar. I'm waiting for the NOAH or the Animal Alliance to produce a poster by Pumbaa from the King of the Lions with the inscription "Save Pumbaa – now everyone will kill Pumbaa". In fact, there is a broad political consensus about that. We need to get rid of the wild boars to save other animals. It's nature management. We have to be able to discuss the management of wild animals in a factual way. This applies to both wolves and wild boars.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1562	First of all to the representative Enger Mehl: I would have liked it if she had come up with figures on the nationality of many of the wolves who care about sheep on the Norwegian side, for example. in Engerdal. It's a familiar thing that they all, most of them come from Sweden. This means that the loss of sheep in Norwegian pasture areas is largely determined by the Riksdag in Sweden, and not here in the hall. It's very important to be aware of, or else you're pushing a deal here in the Storting that doesn't matter to this sheep loss at all. I should have had those numbers from the representative. So I've gone through a lot of deficits in the Elvestuen budget, and I'll keep going a little bit here. I couldn't get through that list, because it was a little long. But as usual on TV – that’s where I’ve worked before – I’m going to take a little ‘recap’. I was talking about priority species, and one of the strongest grips we have in the Natural Diversity Act, is to put priority species in for close follow-up. A number of species have been identified, it has become a long list, and reports have been submitted on what the government will prioritise and what the professional authorities will give, but we will not go much further than a small, small number – 13–14 or how far we have come. So it's a very decisive tool, and I don't see that there's been much more funding for this sector, and SV will of course almost double that amount in its alternative budget. But we don't stop the loss of biodiversity just by protecting the most valuable thing that's left. We also have to restore nature, which we have too little of. The International Natural Panel says that restoration by nature is necessary and very profitable. The size has decided that we should protect 15 pst. damaged by nature by 2025. It's not long. At the same time, small funds have been allocated to the restoration of ants, and there is little evidence in the state budget that only five years remain until the ambitious goal of the Storting is to be achieved. Only for this purpose: SV provides funds in its alternative budget, with significantly more funds for registration, protection and restoration. And in the middle of this, we're going to have wind power expansion on land. I'm not going to start such a debate here, but I just have to mention here from the pulpit that this is probably the most significant intervention in Norwegian nature since the time of the large hydroelectric expansions here to land. Concession treatments have also gone much faster than that, and they have not been thorough, and they are not built on enough scientific assessments and nature's self-value. Not enough emphasis has been given to the political budget, and I welcome the work that the government is now doing with new concession terms.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1573	I watched TV yesterday that the Minister of Oil and Energy was visiting the municipality of Haram in Møre and Romesdal, where there was a massive local protest against plans for wind power. Let me first say that I am very pleased that the government and the oil and energy minister have stopped the concession treatment of all the projects that have been mentioned, that have been applied for, pending better information. It's positive. I would like to draw attention to a magazine, the Environment Agency, which is from the Norwegian Environmental Protection Association, where they are going through this with wind power. There are many who have spoken in this debate about renewable energy as a kind of alternative to the life-giving gas CO 2 that comes from different other energy productions – very little in Norway, but from many other countries. Here the Environmental Protection Association has taken into account the claims of wind power, and they make some juicy counterclaims and say that this is an environmental threat and climate stress, that is to say the very opposite of what renewable energy users say. A sub-title is, "The nature is sacrificed for money." It is obviously nature sacrificed, not for us here in Oslo, but for those who live in District Norway. Alternative energy sources are addressed, geothermal energy and, of course, the upgrading of very many hydroelectric power plants. There, I would ask both councils to help make the different energy sources more comparable in terms of tax rules and tax rules and depreciation rules, so that we can get alternatives to each other on what is profitable. Then you have to have the same framework conditions. They address the environmental movement and the green certificates, which have imposed increased electricity prices on the population of Norway to finance what I call climate madness. It is also the government's bluff with climate change going through, the government's downfall, contact and corruption – there are very serious accusations here, and it is also clear that some wind power operators have purchased goodwill. There are also other things I will be allowed to challenge. In particular, I would like to ask that in the department of Elvestuen you look at getting rules for low-frequency noise, which today has no upper limit, and which is necessary. I would like to challenge both state councils to clarify, in writing, what is wrong with the articles in the Environmental Agency of the Norwegian Environmental Protection Association. It may not be correct, but it would be very nice to see a rejection of what is in this, in my opinion, very good paper. Finally, I understand that predators and predators management are also a topic here today. Let me end with a personal opinion: the only good wolf is a dead wolf.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1587	It has been a good debate and an all-round debate so far. The representative Haltbrecken asked in replying the representative Heggelund what he felt after referring to the Global Carbon Project, which produced a report. Had I got that question, I would have said: I feel hope, faith – for that part also love – but there is reason to feel hope, despite the fact that there are gloomy predictions. I believe that the debate today has shown that politics is working. It is then that one action that everyone agrees with, including internationally, and that needs to be put in place as a tool to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement is carbon capture and storage. I record that it has been largely absent in this debate, a project where Norway is leading, where we really take climate leadership. It has not shaped this debate, but here we are delivering. So a few words about sea wind, as it has been shown to have a great potential. Here the debate has gone as if Norway did not have a position or do anything in this context. Today we are world leaders in sea winds. Norwegian companies are expanding offshore wind farms outside New York to meet the power demand of 500 households there. If we look at Doggerbank, the Norwegian industry is building sea wind to cover the electricity consumption of 4.5 million households. At least it's so that the power you produce in these places, we couldn't have built in the North Sea or any other place. It says that the sea wind market is the world, and Norwegian industry is there. So let's do what we have to do. We support technology development at home. If $2.30. kr in support of technology development for Hywind Tampen is not to be delivered, I have no better answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1596	I have been challenged in some areas, including: by the representative Nävra, who drew a dark picture of the administration of Norwegian nature. The budget has an increase of 76 million. kr, and we have a bet on a knowledge gap for Norwegian nature of over 100 million. kr, continued until next year. There is an increase in restoration within water management areas. It is an increase for endangered species and nature: 19 million. NOK to the first and SEK 18 million. kr to the other. Forest protection is continuing at a high level – about twice what was in the old red-green budgets. Efforts on care in protected areas are also being increased, as well as efforts on wild and wild breeds, where we have our own responsibility. In common climate objectives with the EU, we commit ourselves not only to follow up what is within the quota market, transport and the allocation of resources, but also to become part of the European objective of spatial neutrality, which will have an impact in the years to come. To the representative Enger Mehl: I take seriously that there are farmers who have great problems with predators, and that there are huge losses in some places. That's exactly why we have an extra effort in the north-east valley, where this happens often because of stripes. And that's exactly why we have a stronger response to the SNO, so that they can help. But at the same time, we have to tell you about the big picture, which is that you have a stronger grazing diet – it is vital – while also being able to care for predators. The two-part objective is to achieve both parts at the same time as entering the areas where there are problems and will be so in the future. As far as business is concerned, there is no doubt that climate and environmental policies are driving industrial development. It really does it all over the country. The main demand for business is predictability. It is not that there should be no environmental taxes, but that there should be predictability when they arrive. For me, it is difficult to see that there are some particularly more environmental taxes for which the Senter party will ultimately end up being too. On Sunday I will go to climate negotiations in Madrid. Norway will raise the need for nature-based solutions, which are essential both in Norway and globally to achieve climate objectives. In Madrid, we will also promise that we want to increase our commitments, and in Madrid, Norway has a leading role in climate change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1617	Feeding is viable in many parts of the country, but there are also quite large areas where it is not viable, where it is completely gone. And that's what's so frustrating: that there are people like that. live in the wolf zone, which has no grazing food left at all — there is no two-part objective to talk about there — and which is never heard because the Council refers to the West, to North Norway and to other places where there is actually a grazing industry. You keep talking about what's good, without recognizing that there are actually quite a lot of people living with a very difficult situation on the body. The government in the budget proposal has now also proposed the protection of the interiors of the bear population. It will make large areas of grazing priority areas in Trøndelag, for example, breeding areas for bears, contrary to the predatory game agreement. It is serious for those who experience what they live in and in their everyday lives. We also need to be able to talk about that, and the Council of States must take over. It's not that small areas that we're talking about. Rendalen is a gigantic municipality, and there is only one of many municipalities in predatory areas. It was asked by the representative Nävra about the nationality of the wandering wolf. Then I can assure the representative that it is not that the wolves living in Norway are stationary, and that other wolves have bones. All wolves are on their way, or may be on their way. Outside the wolf zone there are wolves from Sweden and from the Norwegian part of the wolf zone. If you go right now and look at preliminary stock regulation, because there's now a census that started on 1 October, to map the population in winter, so far 31 individuals are registered. Of the 31s, 11 have an undecided status, so you don't know where they're going, because they're on the move. Six of them are defined with unexplained status and on migration, so one is absolutely sure that they are on the move, and several of them are also registered outside the wolf zone. And when the wolf zone is full, when it's close to reverberations, there's no room in the wolf zone for new wolves to settle down. It's pretty simple: if a male wolf comes to a place where there already lives wolves from before, he goes on because he can risk being killed if he goes in and tries to take over an existing revir. That's how nature works. That's why the wolf likes to go on. When there's plenty of tumors in the wolf zone, it goes out of the wolf zone. It's that simple.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1626	The representative Sigbjørn Gülsvik has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1631	State Council Elvesuen wondered if there were any environmental taxes the Senterpartiet is for. We already have a number of environmental taxes in Norway, and the Senterpartie also wants to use the charging policy to distort consumption, distort investment, but what is important is how the policy works: that one contributes to reducing emissions and does not fall in love with the instrument that charges are constantly to be levied. With today's government, the fees have increased by 6.3 billion. kr. In many respects, increasing taxes on competitive industries makes it more difficult for the industry to make the necessary investments and conversions. In addition, when a new fee is imposed on fishing and fishing in close waters, there is a risk that it will contribute to structural changes and that new investments will become more difficult. Therefore, one should do as the Centre Party proposes: a grant for the conversion of the Starfleet.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1638	I just wanted to say thank you for a good debate. It's definitely approaching the end. Not all priorities emerge in such a debate. There are some priorities that it might be interesting to hear more about from the left side, for example. that the working party believes it has become too expensive to contaminate in Norway now. It was their main criticism of the budget in the financial debate. The Labour Party also believes that the electric car policy has now gone too far. The centre party is opposed to a binding climate agreement, for which all other parties are in favour. They remain against the zero-emission fund for industrial transport. They stick to the old model that no one talks about anymore, which would lead to a continuation of rewarding them as contaminated, and not introducing the polluter-pays principle. Then it turned out that it did not vote when the Greens over two pages in the evening post and in front of thousands of climate-stripping young people promised that they would propose to grant 65 billion. kr to international climate action. They actively chose not to propose to grant the 65 billion. If we had adopted the Greens' alternative budget, regardless of which committee, there would not have been 65 billion. from the oil fund to international climate action, as the Greens have promised for several months now. They did not find room to prioritize it in their own budget. Otherwise, I find it interesting that neither the Left Party nor the Green Party will tell what demands they will make of parties with which they would like to cooperate. For SV it is obviously not important that it becomes more expensive to pollute. A simple yes or no question to the representative Haltbrecken at the beginning of this debate was: Is it an ultimate requirement that it should continue to be more expensive to pollute, when we hear from the financial debate that the Workers' Party believes it has become too expensive to pollute? It was not possible to get a yes or no answer to that, which indicates that the answer is obviously no, it is not that important. With this government it becomes more expensive to pollute. We contribute more to migration, help the market to change, and as a follow-up to the agreement we have with the EU, there will be a sectoral plan for achieving our 2030 climate change targets.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1651	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1668	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1677	I would like to start by thanking the Committee for constructive cooperation. The attitude is not unanimous, and it is no surprise that the Central Party does not share the majority's views on this matter. I therefore expect those who are behind the majority to explain their views. The case concerns the subsequently mentioned concession request to NorthConnect and the proposal to stop this process. In March 2017, NorthConnect applied for a concession to build and operate a sea cable between Scotland and Norway. The case is still pending treatment at NVE. Meanwhile, in this Chamber, we have dealt with issues relating to the EU's third energy market package, and with the majority of the government, the Labour Party and the Green Party, a declaration with the condition that Statnet will own and operate all future inter-territorial relations. It has happened very little after that case was dealt with, and the presumption of whether NorthConnect is actually covered by this state ownership agreement appears to be very uncertain. The actual status is that the Energy Act has not been amended, and it is therefore open for private construction, ownership and operation of foreign tables. The parties share the views of the proposer on the need for more cables abroad and that Norway can contribute to the phasing out of fossil energy use in other countries by other means than exporting our perhaps all the most important competitive advantage – clean power. The Norwegian power-intensive industry is totally dependent on this competitive advantage, and risking increased power prices in Norway through a foreign table that is strictly non-needed is a high level of gambling. The proceedings in the concession handling of NorthConnect's application create uncertainty. It creates uncertainty for Norwegian industry and jobs, but it also creates uncertainty about what is really the political status of the case. Is it such that NorthConnect's application should be dealt with in line with the premise attached to the treatment of the third energy market package, or will it, despite the clear expectations created, go its way independently of it? This is a question that seems almost impossible to get a clear answer to. The central party's principal position is in any case that it is the state that is to have monopoly on ownership and the operation of cables abroad, and that it is difficult to see this matter without any connection with the will of the majority of the population also shows when it comes to giving up power and governance in energy policy, which, in the view of the Central Party, is very unwise and a little long-term policy strategy. With that, I take up the proposal of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1692	The representative Sandra Borch has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1697	I would also like to thank the Committee on Good Cooperation. I want to start a little bit with some of the premises for this debate, and it's about someone who seems to have the impression that a power cable to the rest of the world necessarily increases the price in Norway. We know from many years of experience that is entirely dependent on the price in the country from which the power is sold, on the price in the purchaser's country, on the time and on the path and time at which the current goes, for example. Norway has a lot of clean power. The main purpose of this force is to provide the basis for Norwegian industry, further electrification and for Norway to become a whole-electrical country one day. In this context, for many years – many decades – it has proved very beneficial to ensure that we have been able to engage in exchanges, first with our Nordic neighbours and then also out of the North and down to the continent. Today we have a power exchange with Sweden, Finland, Denmark, the Netherlands and Russia, and cables are under construction for both Germany and the United Kingdom – that is, before the issue of NorthConnect came up. To take the example of Denmark, which is the best illustration of how this works: in recent years Denmark has gone from being heavily dependent on coal to producing very much wind power. Wind power is sometimes extremely cheap. Sometimes Denmark produces far more than their own consumption, and then we buy that wind power much cheaper than any power produced in Norway and import it into the country. In other periods we can sell hydro as a balancing force back to Denmark, and then we make more money on it. Thus, there is a win-win situation – or more precisely: a wind-water situation – between Norway and Denmark, which works very well for both parties. We get both lower prices for consumers in Norway and higher revenues for power exporters. This is not the case with all cross-border connections. It is therefore important to understand its context and context. The majority refers to their own agreement, to which a majority of the parties on the Stortinget have joined, and it is made very clear that there are three important premises to be taken into account before several cables are built abroad. Experience is to be gained with those already under construction and socio-economic profitability is to be ensured, and Statnet is to have a monopoly on all cables. Thus, any cable out of Norway is to be owned and operated by Statnett. Therefore, it is not appropriate to build new cables now, in line with this agreement, and we believe that this agreement will last. We have not seen any movement from the government that suggests that they do not keep their share of this agreement. We also believe that the agreement forms the basis for the work done. That is why we refer to it in detail in this setting, and we believe that this question has thus been resolved. We'll also come later in the debate, I think, to stress that what's right now can be different from what's right in the future, because the world around us is changing.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1714	I would also like to thank the Committee on Good Cooperation. Norway was at an early stage with the introduction of a market-based turnover in force. The Nord Pool Power Exchange became the world’s first international exchange for power trading after Sweden, Denmark and Finland joined from 1996. Together with the management of our natural energy resources, competition has, among other things: has led us to have Europe's lowest prices of power. By means of power exchanges with other countries, we secure ourselves against power shortages, while at the same time contributing to more stable prices both for business and in people's homes. It is then that the Norwegian economy needs to be converted in order to become less oil dependent, and with the expertise and resources that Norway has, the renewable industry can be an important piece to achieve this goal, while Norway is further transformed in a green direction. It also means that Norwegian renewable industries need to be able to grow. Power exchanges can also be important from a climate perspective, as emission-free energy sources are often unregulated. Good interconnection capacity in and between countries is therefore necessary to replace renewable energy sources in Europe. Norway has a advantage in this respect, with a view to approx. One half of the renewables that can be regulated in Europe are in Norway. Norwegian renewable energy is also positive for the competitiveness of Norwegian industry, while the powerful industry is the main customer of Norwegian renewable energy. Good framework conditions for power-intensive industries are therefore important both for Norwegian jobs and for value creation and for possible growth for Norwegian renewable industries. Then I refer to the agreement between the Right, the Advance Party, the Left, the Labour Party and the Green Party. I am pleased that the representative Barth Eide has not seen any sign that that agreement still does not stand. Frankly, I haven't.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1729	A balanced exchange of power with our neighbouring countries makes sense to ensure a stable supply of power both to households and to industry, but it also helps to phase out climate-resilient power generation in our neighbouring countries, as the wind effort in Denmark has shown. The primary task of Norwegian power producers shall be to ensure safe and adequate power across the country. Access to power at stable and predictable prices is important for industrial development in Norway and will be very important in the years to come when we are to switch from a large-scale investment in oil to a large-scale investment in green industry. New cable projects need to be balanced against Norwegian industrial development, Norwegian workplaces and the possibility of phase-out of fossil energy also here in Norway. In Statnett’s network development plan of 2019, they conclude that it is currently uncertain whether there is a basis for any new inter-national connections. We in SV therefore see no reason to grant a concession to a new project, and at least not until the beginning of the cables to Germany and the United Kingdom are finished and experience has been gained from the operation of these. It will be a good start in the 2020s at the earliest. Social benefits must be clearly documented before any new cable project is considered. In addition, it is important that the inter-national connections that we have are owned by Statnett. The reason is that they are a very important part of the Norwegian power grid. NorthConnect is owned by Agder Energie, Lynse, E-CO Energie and Vattenfall – and not by Statnett today. We therefore support the proposal that there should be no concession for this project.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1740	This proposal is open to many possible scenarios. To ensure clean energy is, among other things, Europe as a whole is now discussing – how to provide renewable and clean energy – and what the EU has confirmed in its clean energy packages. The third, 10 years after the EU, Norway has now agreed, while the EU is discussing its fourth clean energy package. It's a lot about regulation and we're dealing fairly with each other and opening up to the production of clean and renewable energy that we need more and more of when we're about to phase out fossil energy. For environmentally friendly industries, we must also take into account the arrangements already in place by industry today. They have tax reliefs that households do not have. The electricity tax that households have does not pay the industry. They also have the right to conclude long-term contracts, of 15 years. Many Norwegian industrial operators have concluded long-term agreements with, inter alia, wind power producers. State power is one of the major builders of renewable wind power in Norway. Hydro is another one. The market for this is starting to get a little saturated right now, but there is a need to build more renewable power in Norway in the future. So is the question of whether Scottish clean renewable wind can blow life into industry in the West. I don't think we should reject the possibility of replacing fossil energy and, for example, fossil energy. to protect rural areas in Norway from expansion. We have to look at this from multiple sides. This concession treatment is going through a social benefit analysis, and we're waiting for it. It also says something about what we're going to do here. However, the large picture is more renewable energy for several actors, including in Norway — and we are going to build a lot more of environmentally friendly industry. But why we're going to stop exactly NorthConnect, is a good question. It is mainly owned by public actors, and State power is also the owner of some of the municipal and county owned actors who want to build this cable. Why they should be kept out is a good question. But now we agree on an agreement where Statnett will own and operate future inter-national connections in Norway, and I am pleased with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1751	Should Norway be an industrial nation, or should we sell the power as a commodity to other countries? That's the core of this case. The low energy cost of green and renewable hydropower has been a decisive advantage for Norway as an industrial nation for over 100 years. The entire industry is at risk if the market is allowed to impose cold Norway, northwards, about the same energy costs as the countries further south of Europe. And that will happen increasingly for each and every new foreign table. The result of treating Norwegian hydropower as an export product can be a major industrial death. It will have a bad impact on the climate in two ways: Firstly, the industry in Norway is leading the Norwegian climate with 40 pst. reduction from 1990 to 2014. The Norwegian metal industry has the world's lowest CO 2 emissions. Aluminium produced in China has about eight times higher emissions of CO 2 than aluminium produced in Norwegian hydropower. Treating hydropower as a commodity in the EU market with the consequence that green Norwegian industry is being flagged for fossil combustion in China is a misguided climate policy. Secondly, to weaken this industry is to say of a bone that Norwegian economy must go on through the green shift. Should it be possible to step down oil and gas, as the climate crisis requires, we are totally dependent on other and greener industries for the future. Therefore, Red proposes: ‘The government is asking the government to reject the application from NorthConnect for the construction of new cable between Norway and the United Kingdom.’ NorthConnect is going to vacuum the West for power. That cable will give us, is higher power prices and uncertainty for the power-intensive industry. When the National Government of the Workers' Party accepted Acer, they made a so-called inevitable demand that the NorthConnect cable should not be built until experience has been gained with the two that are now being built in England and Germany. But this is not in the agreement that the Labour Party on Stortinget has done with the ACER comrades in the Progress Party, Right, Left and MDG. It just says that you have to gain experience before building NorthConnect. And the government parties confirm that NorthConnect is not stopped by the agreement, most recently confirmed by Energy Minister Kjell-Børge Freiberg in Stortinget last week. Since the government parties cannot confirm the so-called mandatory guarantee of the Workers' Party, the Workers' Party should do as a collective trade movement requires, pull the emergency brake and agree to stop NorthConnect and vote in favour of the Red's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1779	The company NorthConnect is owned by three of our public regional power companies – in addition to Vattenfall, the state-owned Swedish power company. They have applied for a concession for a power cable between Norway and the United Kingdom. The NVE shall provide an overall assessment of the application to the Ministry before the concession procedure continues. The overall assessment of the NVE will be sent to the hearing in the usual manner when the ministry is sent the matter. In the concession treatment, the Ministry will review all social benefits and costs of the project. In examining the third energy market package, the bulk of the population argued that the Ministry of Oil and Energy had to complete the NorthConnect concession application before promoting a legislative change on ownership of foreign connections — and that in the future it would be Statnet that owns and operates all foreign connections. Let there be no doubt: the leadership of the Grand Duchy is the basis for the ministry’s examination of the concession application and ownership issues. Adequate treatment of the concession application in line with the frameworks of the Energy Act and the Administrative Law makes it impossible to take a decision on the concession application at present. I am therefore pleased with the committee's recommendation not to adopt the representative proposal from the big business representative, Mr Moxnes, to stop NorthConnect now.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1790	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1796	A clear criterion for the concession treatment of NorthConnect is the agreement of government parties, among other things. The working party to gain experience from existing cables and cables under construction before granting a concession. What's the experience? Is it somehow a simulation of experience? Is that two weeks' experience? Is that a year's experience? Or is there five years of experience in operating the existing cables and those under construction?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1803	As I said in my post, this application is normally dealt with according to administrative practices and the law underlying this type of application. So Stortinget has given some guidance on how to assess the concession request in addition to it, including: It is, as the representative here points out, inside a lead that the Council of State can confirm that we will follow up and respond to the concession treatment itself. The assessments requested here are part of the assessments to be made when we start the concession procedure, after we have been sent from the professional authorities the basis on which we will assess this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1808	I hear what the Council of State says, that this should be done in the ordinary way and after Stortingen's leadership, but I did not get a response to how much experience to gain before going to a concessional treatment. Is it that two weeks' operating time is enough, or should you take longer to gain experience from the cables that exist and are under construction before entering a real concession process?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1813	As I replied to the representative, the assessments we're going to make are part of the concession process itself. And the concession treatment is going to start with in my department when we get the professional basis from NVE. Then we're going to answer how we're going to gain experience, as the Storting has said. When I can't be more clear about it, it's precisely because we haven't started that job. Now we are waiting for the professional basis, which I believe is important when we are going to address various questions, including the question that the representative of the Central Party is asking.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1820	I'm recording that I'm not coming any further with that question, so let me ask you a question that was in ABC News here by day, about bottleneck receipts from the foreign tables. In the past, bottleneck revenues have been said to contribute to the reduction of network rental for Norwegian consumers and industry, while the regulatory authority, RME, which is the body monitoring compliance with EU legislation, has said that bottlenecks revenue should be used primarily for the maintenance of cables and also for investing in increased transmission capacity if it is socially viable. Isn't this a breach of the sovereignty waiver discussed here when we had the Acer case in March 2018?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1825	If I understood the representative there that there is a reference to question 1549, from the representative of Moxnes, this article is about, then the question was what total network rental in Norway has been in the period 2006 to 2018. I then showed that the third energy market package came into force in Norway on 3 October 2019 and therefore had no impact on the network rental for the period I had responded to. In addition, the third energy market package does not contain any prohibition on the full inclusion of bottleneck revenues in the tariff base of the transmission network.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1832	I want to read a comment from the setting that the Working Party and SV are behind. It says: ‘The members of the Committee of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left do not therefore see the basis for granting a concession to a new project until the beginnings of the cables to Germany and the United Kingdom have been completed and experience gained from their operation.’ My questions to the Council of State are: Is the Council of State agreeing with its partner the Workers' Party in this, and will he then reject the application for the construction of NorthConnect?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1842	As I said in my post, there should be no doubt: the ministry is basing on the leadership Stortinget has said to be in this concession treatment. I absolutely intend to follow up on that. Then there is a political agreement where the Council of State also intends to follow up in the treatment of NorthConnect. So it is that no decision has been taken on this application. I point out that there comes a thorough professional basis, which is what is to be taken into account before you draw a conclusion, really in line with the way you do it in this country. I think that's wise. I think that's good. We're going to do that job, and then we're going to conclude, where we're going to answer what the Storting has from leaders, and the agreement from the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1849	I thank you for the answer, although there might not have been a complete answer to the question, so I get to try a little bit different twist, I also. In the agreement between the Government and, inter alia, The working party in the Acer case states that experience must be gained from the two cables under construction before considering new projects. My question is: does it mean that the two cables are going to be in operation for a certain period, short or long, before the Council of State takes its decision on NorthConnect?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1856	I believe I have answered this question. In all modesty I believe that I have answered this question well. The size has led to how this is to be treated. It's going to follow up on the Council of States. Then I have said that the leadership in terms of gaining experience is part of the assessments that have to be taken into account when we are going to start by reviewing the professional basis on which we are going to make a decision. So I just want to be very clear that no decision has been made. We're going to start that job in a very ordinary, tidy way pretty soon.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1865	The next and last replicator is the Bears of the Moxnes. The Council of State may have another opportunity to respond well to the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1871	I would say in all modesty that the council may not have answered very well the question he has now received six times from different parties in the opposition. The agreement between the ACER comrades states: ‘Any new cables shall be socio-economically viable and experience gained and detailed analyses shall be carried out before new connections can be established.’;» That means you can do an analysis for the spring and then say that you got a receipt from the agreement and thus say yes to NorthConnect. The working party agreed before the summer on another proposal that, on the other hand, «will the government approach several foreign tables before we have gained experience of the two started cables to Germany and the United Kingdom.». So the question is whether the council agrees, that we have to get these cables built and operating before it can be relevant to say yes to NorthConnect.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1888	I've answered this, and I just want to show you what I've said before. The way we're going to gain experience is part of the total picture, the total review we're going to have when we're going to process this. I must nevertheless be allowed to say that I am very pleased that this round has had a fairly good clarification on what has been mentioned in this debate, and that was a debate in this Chamber last week, and that is with national autonomy over our energy resources, especially in relation to the debate around Acer. So when the representative of Moxnes believes that we have given up sovereignty and promote representative proposals and ask me to stop NorthConnect, we cannot get better evidence that we have national governing rights – that's good, because that's what it is, and the Council of States must also prove that we actually have.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1895	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1902	I would also like to say that I understand very clearly that the Council of State has answered this question – that it is in line with the agreement that we five parties together make up three-quarters of the Grand Council, that is, that three criteria should be taken into account. It is that experience is to be gained with the cables under construction, the socio-economic profitability of any new cables if they are built, and Statnett will have a monopoly on all new cables – i.e. that all cables will be owned and operated by Statnett in and out of Norway. As the representative Haltbrecken was in the right place, and as we also write about in the settings, SV and the Workers' Party, Statnett's network development plan makes it very clear that it would be unwise to establish further connections before we know what the two now under construction are adding. One simply has to look at the system power, not just the price, but the system power in the Norwegian mains network, before going on with further expansion. That's a wise position from Statnett. It's also completely in line with what the majority has voted in favour of. It is, as you know, very difficult to gain experience from something that has not happened. In order to reap an experience, something must have taken place first, otherwise it is difficult to reap an experience. I'm happy to, for example. The representative Haltbrecken and SV so clearly underline the need for foreign tables and that being associated with the rest of the world can also contribute to reducing climate change emissions in other countries. It's a position that SV has had, and I have, and I'm happy for it. Actually, I felt that Mr. Haltbrecken's contribution was a very clear support for the majority's view, although he has a slightly different conclusion himself. It's just the things that have to be taken into account. But I am concerned when the representative Moxnes, on the other hand, says that any new cable will weaken the situation of the Norwegian industry. It's proven to be wrong. That's just not right. Every single night, the reasonable force flows into Norway that operates Norwegian melting plants — every single night. Large parts of the year we have significant net imports. In March we imported seven times as much power as we could export, because then it had been a cold winter, the magazines were empty. We got cheap power from the rest of the world all March – seven times as much as we exported. It's actually Norwegian industry very happy. It would have been significantly more expensive — significantly more expensive — to operate Norwegian melting plants if we did not have the opportunity to balance with foreign power. So as a general statement, it's simply not right. And that is not a political position – it is a measurable fact. But then we have to say that that's true, while in some context it will be so that increased power exchange with other countries can increase the price. It depends on how the price is in that country. That is why we will gain experience and take a closer look at the particular cable that is currently being debated.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1915	I come from a part of the country where we have been dependent on being able to exchange power with other states, but also with other countries, such as Sweden. A few years ago, there was an alleged power crisis in Trøndelag. As a result, the authorities spent several billion kroner setting up two highly polluting mobile gas power plants. Not only were they expensive, they were also more than highly polluting. Thanks to the upgrading of the line towards Sweden, we managed through the winter without having to use these mobile gas power plants. It shows that power exchanges are good and can help cut emissions both in the rest of the world and in Norway. But then the question is when we discuss even more new cables abroad: What are the consequences for the climate? What impact does this have on Norwegian industry? I regard it as a very fundamental part of the agreement between the Greens and the Greens on the Acer regime, that we should gain experience from the two cables under construction before giving a concession to NorthConnect. NorthConnect can have major negative impacts on Norwegian industry, and therefore we should first have experience with the two cables under construction. Now we don't get a response from the Council of State Freiberg about whether this with experience from the two cables means that they should have been in operation for a short or longer period before the decision is taken. So then I can try to challenge the Workers' Party, which is a central part of this agreement: Does the Workers' Party believe that the agreement means that the two cables under construction must have been in operation – for a short or long time – before the decision on NorthConnect is taken?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1926	I guess no one has been in charge of cutting cables we've had to neighboring countries for 30-40 years. The question in this case is whether we should go for or against – open up for or say no to – NorthConnect, a new export cable for power. They themselves wrote in their application that the cable is expected to give a price increase of 1.7 øre per kWh. For an enterprise with an annual consumption of 5 TWh, this represents an increase in costs of 85 million. kr per year. For a total process industry, this means about 600 million. kr in increased costs per year. To Espen Barth Eide: So these are the facts that come from the application from NorthConnect. This will come up with a price increase from the two cables now under construction, which will be around 4 øre per kWh. Should we believe Hydro, the cable will have a negative effect on Hydro's factories in the West and in Central Norway because the power price will increase and security of supply will be weakened. This is why an overall trade union movement with LO at the head asked the Stortinget and the Workers' Party to join with the trade union movement against the civilians in order to ensure sovereignty and to say no to new cables and have full authority over this part of the policy. It is a pity that the Workers' Party Summits joined forces with the citizens of the EU, but it was the Labour Party leadership's choice on its own basis and not least against a collective trade movement. Red has often tried to get answers from the Council of State on whether these two cables will be built before saying yes or no to NorthConnect. The interesting thing is that the agreement between these Acer parties on the Stortinget only states that experience must be gained before new connections can be established. The two cables have not been mentioned. They are mentioned first in the Decision of June 2019, where the Workers' Party agreed to this requirement. That's not what the bourgeois voted for. This went against the bourgeois parties in the main hall in June 2019, probably not for no reason. There is still much doubt as to what is really the reality of the agreement between the Acer parties. The repeated attempts by the Council of State not to answer the question show that there is a bit of a kinky matter for the government. With a clear answer, they risk revealing that the warranty of the Workers' Party is unfortunately not a guarantee.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1939	The representative Espen Barth Eide has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1944	The answer to the Stopbreak is yes. To Moxnes: There wasn't a total trade union movement, there was a difference of opinion between unions, but during the process we had around ACER, there was agreement on the procedure and satisfaction of LO on the outcome of both Statnet's monopoly, the acquisition of experience, socio-economic profitability, etc. This was a close interaction between the Workers' Party and the LO, and I'm proud of that. I am very happy that they have confirmed it a number of times afterwards. Finally, the price increase or not depends on what happens on both sides of the cable. The numbers Moxnes referred to, which were the correct numbers when the application was submitted, were based on price expectations then. Since then, the United Kingdom, in particular Scotland, has undergone a massive renewable effort, making Scotland 74.6 pst. self-sufficient in wind power, and it increases year by year. There is a surplus of Scottish wind power several times in a year. This means that over time Scotland may end up becoming more like a Denmark than it was a coal-based country with a high CO2 price as it was. It will change the assumptions for the whole discussion, and therefore we should gain experience... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1951	Then you have used up the time available. The next speaker is the representative Lars Haltbrecken, who has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute. - So it's in 1 minute!
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1958	I think I'll be fine with less than that. I would like to thank Mr Eide for a clear and clear answer. The answer was yes, the two cables should have been in operation for a short or longer time. Then is the challenge of the Council of State Freiberg: Can the Council of State answer a question as clearly and clearly yes to my question as the representative Barth Eide did?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1965	The representative Bears Moxnes has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1971	I will both substantiate the Haltbrecken's questions and actually repeat it to the Council of State: to get an equally clear yes. So I want to replicate to Barth Eide that there's little doubt about where the trade union movement was in the question of ACER. There was a clear demand, not least from the Joint Union, from the peoples of the industry, that a clear no should be said to ACER in order not to risk transferring sovereignty over Norwegian energy policy, and thus also over Norwegian industrial policy, to an EU agency that would have power into Norway with its extended arm, RME. The requirement was clear, and at least it took Red seriously. Then there is a discrepancy between the decision of the National Government of the Workers' Party and what is in the agreement with other parties on the Stortinget. It is not possible for the Council of State to respond properly, and that is a concern.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1976	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e1989	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e2233	A total of 15 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-8, by Espen Barth Eide, on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Greens proposal No 9, by Espen Barth Eide on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Environment Party of the Greens proposal No 10, from Espen Barth Eide on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 11, by Lars Haltbrecken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Greens proposal No 12, from Ole André Myhrvold on behalf of the Centre Party proposal No 13 and 15, from Lars Haltbrecken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 14, from Une Bastholm on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA There is a vote on proposal No. 14, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the establishment of a sector agreement for sea wind according to the model of the British Offshore Wind Sector Deal, with objectives of 100 TWh annual production by 2030.’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e2272	There is a vote on proposal No. 15, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the necessary measures to be taken by the government to prevent the use of biofuels with a high deforestation risk in the Norwegian fuel market. The measures shall be in place by 1 January 2020 at the latest.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e2289	There is a vote on proposal No. 13, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the following for development projects on Norwegian continental shelf: The UK Government agrees that the Ministry of Oil and Energy will be able to approve projects on Norwegian continental shelf under the following conditions: [[plans for deployment/installation and operation]] 1st@item: inlistbox The project must not have any principal or social implications. 2nd@item: inlistbox The maximum total investment per project amounts to 7 billion. krones. 3rd@item: inlistbox Each project must demonstrate acceptable socio-economic viability and be reasonably robust against changes in the price evolution of oil and natural gas.» Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e2312	There is a vote on proposal No. 12 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to assess measures such as organised State hunting and shooting premium in the implementation of the Action Plan against wild boar 2020-2024.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e2332	SV had to vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e2337	Then we'll take the vote again. Red has announced support for the proposal. The Socialist Left has announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e2355	There is a vote on proposal No. 11, by the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a concrete action plan with new and modified instruments to achieve a minimum of 6 TWh reduction in energy use in existing buildings by 2030, in addition to the 4 TWh expected to be realised by existing instruments.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e2372	There is a vote on proposal No. 10, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked by the government to report on the development of profitability in all individual fields under development in future government budget proposals, and also on the state’s prospects for revenue from the fields.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e2389	There is a vote on proposal No. 9, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Greens' Environment Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests that offshore supply ships be required for low emission solutions from 2025 and zero emissions from 2030.’; Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e2408	SV had to vote in favour of that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e2413	Then we'll take the vote again. The Socialist Left has now announced subsidiary support for the proposal. Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e2430	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-8, from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to set up a Commission to carry out a review of the management systems for Norwegian climate policy, why the emissions target for 2020 is not being achieved, and what needs to be changed in order to ensure better target management of climate change in Norwegian administration by 2030.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that restoration of nature and diversity of species in and along watercourses is ensured through the upcoming watercourse conditional audits’. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to implement the protection of the Innervisten, Nordfjorden, Karlsøyvær, Kaldvfjorden and Innhavet, Outer Karlsøy, Rossfjordstraumen, Rystraumen, Outer Hardangerfjorden, Lurefjorden and Lindåssane, Krossfjorden, Børgin and Skarnsundet as planned in autumn 2019.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to prepare climate accounts for all state activities from 2020 – including Scope 3 from 2021.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: «The government is asked to ensure that the State will lease equipment rather than buy where it provides lower climate pressure and where there are no significant differences in costs.» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is requesting a discount on the power charge for high-speed chargers of 5000 kWh per month.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking for various charging models for the extraction of virgin natural resources during 2020 and to report back to the Storting appropriately.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to identify different tax models for fossil plastics and plastic packaging during 2020 and to report them back to the Storting appropriately.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e6055	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e6141	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e6160	During the debate, Sandra Borch put forward a proposal on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to refuse the NorthConnect concession request for the construction of a new cable between Norway and the United Kingdom.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e6177	Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-04.ana.ud111e6198	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone want a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
