ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e67	The representatives of the Harek Rivers, Bente Stein Mathisen, Vetle Wang Soleim, Marianne Marthinsen, Christian Tybring-Gjedde, Liv Signe Navarsete and Erlend Wiborg, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The representative, Lars Haltbrecken, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e96	On behalf of the representatives of Audun Lysbakken, Arne Nävra, Kari Elisabeth Kaski and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a representative to set up an international agreement to reduce oil production.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e101	The representative, Cecilie Myrseth, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e106	On behalf of the representatives of Terje Aasland, Arild Grande and myself, I will present a proposal for a representative on a package of measures to ensure the seriousness of the fishing industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e111	The representative, Kjersti Toppe, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e116	On behalf of the representatives of Geir Adelsten Iversen, Sandra Borch, Per Olaf Lundtigen, Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum and myself, I would like to make a proposal to ‘prepare the public operation of the air ambulance service to become an integral part of the other health care services and emergency medical preparedness’.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e121	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Judicial Committee, cases will be brought before the Court of Justice. 1 and 2 are treated as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e155	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the debate will be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes, and the President will organise the debate as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Right 25 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Green Party 5 minutes and Red 5 minutes. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines will be given with replies after contributions from members of the Government. In addition, those who have to sign up for the speaker list in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e166	I would like to start by thanking the Committee for a good cooperation in the work on the budget setting. We live in a safe country, compared to the vast majority of others. There is a lot of good and exciting happening in the justice sector, and we have a lot to be proud of. It is positive that in recent years the government has invested in and prioritised the National Emergency Response Centre. It is positive that the government has worked for and ensured that new police helicopters are put in place. It is also very positive that the government has put in place and worked with a cybersecurity centre, and that one also in the budget for 2020 finds the means to maintain prison. The Labour Party's ongoing criticism of the nearly seven Progress Party budgets and the right government has been directed towards the fact that the operation and soundness of the criminal chain are down priorities, that a failure in the fact that a place for an incredible amount in the blue state budget, continues the outcast ABE reform, which cuts its capacity, that the right government broke the settlement concluded in the Stortinget, that we have a government that does not intend to enable the police to solve their social mission, at the same time as one stands in a gigantic reform that is out of course. People have not been given the security they have been promised. We have witnessed a court scandal in the fall. The Nav scandal is serious, he has led to more murders and is now under review. It's too early for conclusions, but I think this serious event must give us as a justice politician a wake-up call – a reminder that we must not take the rule of law or the legal certainty of people for giving. The rule of law is the cornerstone of our democracy, and for us in the Committee on Justice, a well-functioning rule of law is entirely decisive for the fundamental values that we all share, like the laws and that everyone in Norway should have both legal certainty and legal protection. In the fall, the Stortinget made an important decision in principle. We decided that the prosecution authority should be formally independent. It's the prosecutor's office in Norway, but we did it formally. When I look around Europe, and see the dark clouds that carry many inhabitants in countries where a person no longer has independent courts, where a person no longer lives in a legal state, it is important for me to start today's debate with arresting for the rule of law, and call about the independent courts and prosecution authorities we have in Norway. The Labour Party believes that the courts must be strengthened. In addition to wanting a decentralised structure, we're adding 30 million. kr more on the table at the courts than what was in the proposition. I want a social democracy. It says a lot about a society how one treats one's convicted people, what power is being exercised toward the inhabitants. After July 22nd, the force in Norway was that we didn't change, that we were together in the meeting with hate, extremism and terror, that we said and were occupied with more democracy and love. It was a great strength for Norway. For the Labour Party, it is important that we have and get a judicial policy that works, not a policy that looks tough, but is tough on crime and even tougher on the causes of crime. Over several years, the Labour Party has now provided serious alternative budgets with a high priority for the justice sector. We're adding over half a billion dollars more on the table to the operation of the justice sector for 2020 than the right government is doing. At the same time, we are honest that we are not proposing enough to the criminal services, and that we are not proposing enough to the courts, because the delayed right-wing government has created the years they have set up, will take several years to resolve. The working party's main priority is the police. Over 470 million. For more information, we suggest that one should apply to the police in 2020. Police need to be able – in a much better condition – to prevent crime, to cooperate with other agencies, to have time to do so, to strengthen and implement the research promise. This year, as for five to six years before, we seriously believe that the police districts are getting too little money. One has to increase the operation of the police districts, and that's why we're spending 300 million. kr more on the table of the police districts for 2020. It is a fact that more police districts in 2020 will have to cut in the number of annual jobs due to the budget that is going to have multiples in this room tonight. There is also a growing frustration in the police around that the Minister of Justice wants us to approach the target of two policemen per thousand inhabitants by having been assigned to policemen in civilian positions, and seems to forget that the whole point was to get more police force, to assign policemen where we need them. The Labour Party also believes that a major question mark must be put to the entire rigid target management sector. No matter how many times the Right Party or the Minister of Justice is going to say "historically" or that the reform works, it doesn't make reality any more correct for that reason. I don't understand that it can be so hard to listen to and understand it added to the police actually says, the people who live in communities in Norway, actually experience. Strengthening the local police is not a good enough job. The police reform that is now being implemented is not similar to that adopted by this House. There is one reason why almost all of the federations in our sector who were on the budget floor thought that the budget was too poor. We'll take some time to wait in this committee. Since March this year, the Minister of Justice has answered all the critical questions raised by the Labour Party about the alarming situation in the police, saying that there is a big message: Just wait, now there is a loophole with measures and necessary adjustments for the situation we are facing. Now we are approaching Christmas, and we have not seen the spin of either action, adjustment or staging messages. At the top of this, there is now a situation that everyone has had – with great disappointment and frustration – that the government is breaking the law school in Oslo. The fact that one goes up in the Police Hill ball is, in my opinion, a pretty bad hundred-year gift to get, because until next year, the Police Hill in Oslo is 100 years old. This is a policy we in the Labour Party are opposed to, and we do not understand that a commitment to make such changes without addressing the staffing needs of the police, as we have suggested in several rounds. Victims of crime are in line, while criminals get a penalty discount. The capacity in the criminal chain is blown up. The Labour Party therefore proposes to raise the number of prosecutors in the police districts by earmarking nearly 100 million. kr to it. We think there's a need for money as well as just seeing it, as a collective committee agrees. Punishment itself does not have much value unless it leads to change. A punishment that works, a prison and free custody that is able to turn people from crime to a life without crime, as good neighbors, must be the whole point of a criminal health policy. Under Erna Solberg and together seven Justice Ministers from the Progress Party, this focus has disappeared. It's put in a drawer, along with all the keys to the open prisons that are now laid down. Another open prison gets the hook at the door of the Stortinget tonight. The forest camp in Fyresdal, or Kleivgrend, under Arendal prison, is laid down by the right party tonight. For the first time, a government is able to lower Kleivgrend. It's not the first time it's been tried, but today it's going to be a reality. The working party is against this. We don't think there are any good arguments for putting down the country's perhaps most affordable prison, which delivers very good results. The argument that's being used, that there's no need, we think we're directly wrong. It's unknowing, it's unwise, and it's a bad policy for social security. The Labour Party believes that it is important to keep the entire atoning strata, including open atoning options, and I hope that reason can be found in the Chamber tonight, because it is permissible to vote for the proposal the Labour Party has put forward, together with the opposition party, if not to put down Kleivgrend incarceration. Otherwise, I take up the proposals that the Labour Party is behind, alone or together with others, and look forward to a fresh and good debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e204	The representative, Mrs. Lene Vågslid, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e209	When the Justice Budget came from the department earlier in the fall, smoking fresh from the printing house, it was once again solid reading. I'm tempted to delight the committee leader in calling it historically good. It is important investment that is completed. It is digitised throughout the sector. I think everyone in the committee and in the room can enjoy that we finally reach the goal of a police coverage of two per thousand inhabitants, that the investigation in the police is prioritised, and that the government cuts through and secures the rescue base for the rescue helicopters in the north. I think the Storting's work on the budget has been extra good this year. It is quite clear that it is useful to have good allies in the financial committee, because the justice sector is running off by about 25 pst. of any changes made to the work of the Financial Committee. The police are getting new equipment. The courts have a very necessary promise, and we have the means to open up new prisons in Eidsberg to deal with the particularly demanding crime situation in Oslo, with gangs, often minors, who are repeatedly trying to test the system and our patience. We have to show them, as the government has said, that breaking the norms, committing crime and creating insecurity must face rapid and tactful consequences. This good budget will be possible. Then we have a strong contrast to the alternative budgets. I don't know what to call them, but they're kind of an arena for creative bookkeeping. They're a show in very much inventive politics. The alternative budgets are largely divided into two. One has a little bit of traditional invading, so it's going to cut 20 million. kr in one entry and increase by 20 million. kr on another. But it's quite another thing to say that we're going to distribute hundreds of millions – hundreds of millions – to the police, courts and prisons and everything that's good. How are we going to finance this? Well, we're going to cut into abstract things like bureaucracy. We need to streamline. We're going out of the EEA. We're going to cut into consulting. What does this mean? It sounds so incredibly simple. Cut the red tape – yes, cut the POD, cut the KDI, cut some consultants on the purchase. It might be fun, a political game where you get a lot of ‘fantasillions’ to play with. But there is a core of deep seriousness here, because expectations are created out there, in voters, in employees in the streets, in police and other people – expectations that cannot be met. It's not theoretically possible to fulfill those promises. If you, for example, shall cut the EEA quota of 2 billion. kr – yes, we will be out of the EEA in a few weeks. There's no question of budgeting like that. One thing is to embrace these criticized ABE cuts. But then you add another billion to be cut, and you do it by removing directorates. What you don't understand is that if you remove a directorate, the problems don't go away. There must still be bureaucrats carrying out these tasks. When you say you're going to cut into consulting, everyone thinks, "Yes, who are consultants? I'm against consultants, I'm for the police. I'm against consultants, I'm for judges." But the consultants we're talking about are not creepy per-people who take a lot of millions. The consultants we're talking about are the ones planning new prisons. They are the ones who are planning a future court structure. They're the ones that give us a new emergency center. – This becomes too simple. But not everything is completely black. When we do a budget work in the committee, there are many fine moments when the parties come together. We have had moments this autumn as we have gathered on good policy. We have gone into Arbeiderpart-comments, Senterpart-comments and SV-comments, and they have gone into the government parties' comments. I want to present the project on public case-law and that the financial situation of police lawyers needs to be clarified in the state budget, as good examples of how we can, after all, find ourselves together. It's a
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e224	When I sat yesterday and was going to prepare for the debate, I was very much in doubt about what this debate was going to be like. All batches have spent the last few weeks fine-tuning on notes, suggestions and own budget increases. The government parties have also managed to move on some money, and I want to say that the justice sector has been well-counted. The opposition has provided its alternative budgets, and they overwhelm the government at almost all points, with some creative implications. Then we criticize each other for breathing in and out so as not to take the situation seriously and not to give enough money. Is this debate today just going to be a competition about who is the best in the class to give money? Is it true that only the opposition has all the good solutions to challenges in the justice sector? Is it just the opposition who sees that there are problems and challenges? I thought that since I am so lucky to have been allowed to sit on the Justice Committee from 2005 to 2009, I had to see what it was like before. So I have gone back and read the debates from the autumn of 2008, the autumn of 2009 and the autumn of 2012. If there's anyone who's wondering what we talked about then, I'm going to give a brief feedback about it: We were talking about a lack of police. Is that surprising? Is there anything new? - No, I'm not. We talked about an increase in crime. Is that new? - No, I'm not. We were talking about solitude, the contents of the solitude and the cows. Are we talking about this today? - Yes, we do. We talked about a lack of operational resources at the Norwegian police station. Do we still do that? Is there anyone who recognizes? – Yes, probably most of us. So I'm assuming that those who stand here in four years, might be going to discuss the exact same things. And that's not necessarily wrong, it shows the contrary that there are no simple solutions. There are no shortcuts here. There is only one way to solve this, and it is through a long and targeted work where you can focus on what should be – and is – the most important thing. It will of course depend on where you stand politically, but for my part it was quite interesting and also a little bit enjoyable to look back at this, because there was a little alarm clock when it comes to: what are we going to do today? What are we discussing today? Yes, we're discussing the same thing we did before. It was also quite enjoyable to read the speeches of the then Minister of Justice Knut Storberget, who was critical of the strong characteristics of the opposition, including myself, just as it is today. Knut Storberget said: ‘That does not seem to benefit me from political work, nor does it help to create security for people to use that kind of characteristic. The paradox is this: if you look at the situation of the police, in many districts we see a happy decline in significant areas of crime, and we are in a situation where the Norwegian police are more manned than ever – considering that you also increase the recording at the Police College to record 552. [[...]] Why am I using the debate here today to look into old debates and find some gold grain from former opposition and position politicians? Well, because I don't think we're good enough to talk about the justice sector. We are all aware that there are challenges, often major challenges, but is the solution all the way to criticising each other for who uses the most or least resources? The police depend on confidence in the population, we depend on the police to do their job, and they do it every day. Then I believe that we must also be able to take on the realities – that every single day a great job is done out there to allow you and I to experience security, and that there has never been more money allocated to this sector. The police are in the midst of a demanding reform, let there be no doubt that we see that in position, too. Should we turn back, should we go back to the way it was before, the safe thing that it had always been? - No, I'm not. We need to take on board the fact that the crime scene has changed, and that a reform that makes the police better able to deal with those changes is absolutely necessary. I would say that the police reform is absolutely necessary. We're getting a better police force with the reform, but it's demanding. I am very pleased that the Minister of Justice takes this seriously, and the statement that was made in October also showed that the government is taking the challenges seriously. Often, such debates are also about a little reality orientation. When the opposition parties write in their comments in the budget for next year that ‘the majority believe that the police’s operating budget over several years with the right-hand government has become strongly down-priority’, I really wonder where they have been for the last six years. There are such statements that are destroying the debate. For this government, – to the representative of Vågslid – has provided a historic lift of the Norwegian police. We will continue this promise in 2020, with 350 million fresh dollars for the Norwegian police. The budget has never been bigger, and there have never been more employees than now. One hundred million. In order to employ newly educated police students, it will also come in 2020, and in addition 150 million. kr as a result of the annual impact of new police posts in 2019. The government will give police districts greater financial space and better ability to handle operational tasks while they are in the reform process. Therefore, no demands will be made in 2020 for the realisation of the benefits of the police reform. That means 54 million. The police can use them for their own benefit. In addition, 80 million are granted. DKK for enhanced police investigation and 50 million. kr to strengthen police helicopter preparedness in North Norway. The draft budget for 2020 proposes a budget of more than 20 billion. To the police. About $18.6 billion. kr is on the police operating budget. By comparison, the police operating budget as of October 2013 was EUR 12,1 billion. kr. This is an increase of about 4.4 billion. kr since the government joined, of which SEK 3.3 billion. kr is on the police operating budget. This is a real increase – the amount has been corrected for price and salary adjustment and for changes related to budgeting for VAT and pension expenditure. How in the world can the opposition say that the police operating budget over several years has been strongly downgraded? It's a question I hope I get answers to during the debate. As I said, the police are in the midst of a comprehensive reform, and reforms are always demanding. The challenges this creates for the police are important to take seriously. However, there is no doubt that the police reform and the changes it brings up are necessary. Both the world and crime have changed, and the police too need to change and work in new ways to meet today’s crime scene. We see that traditional crime is sinking. At the same time, the development of crime shows an explosive growth in violent and sexual offences. This is serious and a situation we really need to take seriously. When we hit the NRK news today, we could read a story – strong reading – about the girl «Lara». More Norwegians than Swedishs and Danes have been convicted and investigated for net crimes against children in the Philippines. It shows a mapping NRK Focus has done in connection with the documentary "Holikens Hus". The Norwegian police have investigated 27 issues relating to net crimes against children in the Philippines. This must be taken seriously, and it must be given priority. I am pleased that we have put in place a web police force, and that we have several special groups investigating sexual offences. This is a resource-intensive task for the police, but absolutely necessary. It is not the number of volunteer offices that determine whether we succeed in this work. When we see that the police detect and apprehend people who engage in online abuse, this is a result of the near-police reform, delivered from a distance. Police reform is an answer to this changed crime scene — enabling the police to solve today’s crime challenges. Police reform is a quality reform – we will see results of increased quality in police work in the coming years. The reform is still in progress. 2019 is an important year for the implementation of quality measures in the reform and for the continued enhancement of staff competence. I am absolutely sure that we will see good results for the police in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e273	The Judicial Committee shall ensure the security and security of people. The great responsibility, which I am sure we all take seriously, but there is political disagreement about what solutions create a safe society. Government parties believe in centralization. The Right Party and the Progressive Party are building up the bureaucracy of the police, the courts and the criminal justice system and are building up the services to be provided to people. They build systems where directors with million wages and consultants sit far away from everyday life and decide how things should be done. The center party believes in the very opposite. We believe in proximity, and we believe in seeing man in front of the system. The Central Party wants a police force close to people. We want a decentralised prison structure where the employees have time to do a job to get the prisoners back on track in life. We want courts all over Norway so people have access to justice wherever they live. The police must be visible and present where people live. That is why we are opposed to the centralisation reform that the government is implementing with the support of the Workers' Party. We are told that the situation is unsustainable – both from the Police Union, from the NTL Police, from the Police Lawyers and from the rapporteurs throughout Norway. A police officer present has a preventive effect. They must be able to investigate matters in all communities. In recent years, the Internet has brought a lot of new crime. Several serious infringement cases are identified. It must be armed to meet the police. But they must also be present for those who experience burglary, serious atrocities and fraud. They need to be able to detect drugs and take the per miller. People must be able to trust that the police will come when they really need it. The centre party is concerned that police reform has weakened preparedness. More often, it is the fire service or ambulance that is first on site at triple alerts. In 2018, the police were first on site in just 15 pst. of all the calls. It places a great deal of responsibility on health professionals and fire services, which must go into dangerous situations they are not equipped to deal with, and it places costs on the fire and rescue services in Norwegian municipalities. In the evening post of September 2, this year, we read about a couple in Lier who have lost faith that the police can investigate and prioritize profit crime. Lier is located in one of the most central areas of the East, and even there, it is not certain that the police can help them. On paper, it looks great for Lier, because the Länsmannskontoret that is maintained after the police reform, but the reality is that the Länsmannsstappen has been reduced from 24 full-time jobs to 2 posts 8 hours a week. What was a fully-fledged janitor's office is reduced to an office with an opening time between 1 p.m. 10 and 14 Mondays and Thursdays. So the government itself has created a police station like the one they have criticized for being too bad around Norway – and that in a large municipality with over 25 000 inhabitants in the East. It is very poorly consistent with the Storting decision to strengthen all remaining Länsmann offices. The SSB figures for the period 2016-2018 show that 85 municipalities, which still have a Länsmannskontoret, have suffered a decline in the number of annual police work. The rapporteur in the municipality of Nittedal said so in Dagbladet on 8 July 2019: ‘You have moved all the policemen to a more central place because you have to bet on cybercrime, while the municipalities are standing behind bars. The problem is that the bandit who sells hash to our high school students does it in the schoolyard, not in cyberspace. He who beats his wife lives his life in a municipality." This is not just about distance and geography – or money. It's also about system. Both the Police Directorate and the Consultant Administration have grown sharply in recent years. At the same time, many police districts are struggling with economic hardship. While bureaucracy has built up, the close police department has been built up. The government cuts in the number of police students, makes it difficult for newly educated people to get a job, and it is demanding, or impossible, for many police districts to acquire new material, cars or equipment. The prosecution authority is also in a very demanding situation. Inland police districts are an example where frustration is enormous, cases accumulate, and police lawyers end up due to poor pay and high labour pressure. The result is that people, victims and defendants stay for years and wait for criminal proceedings to be brought before the court. The centre party will give priority to free resources to police districts and prosecution. That is why we are proposing 550 million. kr more to the police and prosecution authorities in our alternative budget. Independent and effective courts are the pillars of a well-functioning state of law. When the courts are pressed for resources, there may be a threat to independence, and the government’s reform of red tape and efficiency has hit the courts hard. While the courts have to cut down on judicial year-ends due to efficiency requirements, the bureaucracy of the Court of Justice is growing. The solution of this is to order an inquiry into the structure of the courts. We do not believe that a structural change is appropriate because today's structure solves quality and competence requirements in a good way, and the courts must be accessible to people. The government's thinking is based solely on the fact that a higher quantity produces higher quality. It is visible in the Court’s report, which proposes to deposit two thirds of Norway’s courts at first instance — a selection that lacked representation from the confiscated courts themselves and that had a very centralising mandate from the government. An entry in Namdalsavisa on 4 December reads as follows: ‘The Commission’s mantra appears to be quantity representing quality. It is postulated that the more judges under the same roof, the more efficiency is achieved and quality ‘better’ judicial decisions are achieved. In the light of the current social security scandal; the NAV case, a question should be asked whether this post is correct. Oslo District Court has alone been responsible for the denunciation of 9 wrongful persons; or invalid, decisions of a total of 48 judges on a national basis that have been so far uncovered. Oslo has a total of approx. 70 Judges and 38 Judges. On this basis, Oslo's jurisdiction must be based on holding it which may be called 'the country's most powerful professional environment'; however, this has not prevented the Court from committing any manifest errors or abuses.' The length of proceedings in the courts also shows that there are no equivalences between quantity and quality. The Court of Justice with the longest trial period in Norway in co-judgment cases is Bergen District Court, which is also our largest full-time court. The central party believes that there is a need to strengthen the courts. Today, there is a bias in technological development between small and large courts. We want to fully digitize all courts, not just the twelve largest ones, and we believe that it is only when you can get full efficiency gains, an economic gain. It is a paradox that the government and the judicial administration systematically weaken the small courts by depriving them of judges, refusing them to digitise and then using them as arguments that they are lagging behind in development and need to be reduced. The center part will reverse that development, and we've added 60 million. kr in our alternative budget for several jurisdictions in district courts and land change rights, for digitisation of all courts and for strengthening the sound and image project. The Central Party believes that criminal services too have major challenges that need to be solved. We have to have enough staff in prison to ensure the safety of the staff and the offer of the prisoners. Penalties shall be rehabilitating to prevent criminals from committing new offences when they leave prison. We are now in a situation where the content of the ransom is greatly reduced, and many prisoners are sitting almost on storage. It does not prevent relapse and new crime. The central party also believes that the use of isolation in Norwegian prisons is too widespread, and we are concerned about the developments we see. Increased staffing is a prerequisite for criminal justice to be able to follow up the policy objectives set for the content of bail and to reduce the use of isolation in prisons. The center part has added 88 million. In its alternative budget to strengthen the staffing of prisons and to maintain Kleivgrend incarceration, which the government wants to put down. The central party is critical that the government has implemented a major police reform and plans reforms in the courts and criminal justice without seeing them in context. We believe that we need to see the reduced pay queues in connection with the capacity jams we see in the police and the courts, which, of course, lead to fewer convictions and fewer who are going to make amends. We believe that the ABE reform introduced by the government in the public sector has hit the justice sector particularly hard. Over the years, the police, the courts and the criminal services have not been cut off in bureaucracy, but there have been cuts in people working on the floor – and then in the service they are going to provide. There are cuts in the number of police, judges and prison staff. We are now in a situation where there is almost a negative balance in the criminal chain because there are crisis-like conditions in both the police, the courts and the criminal justice system. The centre party is a clear vote against the government's uncritical belief in magnificence and centralization. It also applies in the justice sector. We believe that people throughout Norway have equal rights to legal certainty, security and preparedness. Finally, I refer to the proposal of the Centre Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e323	The representative Emilie Enger Mehl has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e328	I've put on my finest blue suit for this trial debate, but didn't let you fool. Today we are discussing the legal situation in Norway in this budget debate. Unfortunately, it does not arouse any particular interest beyond the Justice Committee; it is largely just us in the Chamber, but nevertheless there is an important debate – and perhaps someone is watching us on television. Although I represent the opposition and am a sharp critic of the government's judicial policy, I don't want to talk down the state of law Norway, because it's very good with it. I've worked a lot on this internationally, as you know, and the legal state of Norway is one of the best in the world. We have very low crime, we have a very small prison population, and there is great confidence in the population of the various institutions we have in Norway. We have to hold on to that. That is why I fully agree with Peter Frölich, who initially says that we agree – throughout the Committee – that we have a common project, and that is that the legal state of Norway should be further developed. Then I hope that you will also agree with me in the following: One of the most basic things we need to ensure when we budget is that human rights are not broken in the institutions to which we budget money. Whether it's police, hospitals, prisons, courts, child protection or whatever, the Biggest's duty is to put so much money into these institutions that the employees who run these institutions are not forced to violate human rights. I hope that we agree on the very basic principle, something else would almost be a disdain for the budgeting capacity of the Storting. Human rights are enshrined in our constitution, and it is our responsibility, number one, that we should grant sufficient funds for this purpose. Unfortunately, we do not get this in Norwegian prisons today. In fact, we can't afford enough to prevent torture and inhuman treatment. That's the situation in Norwegian prisons. In Norwegian prisons, the ban on torture and the ban on inhuman treatment are broken every day. Every four inmates are isolated more than 16 hours a day, and there are worse holidays and holidays. Christmas Eve – in 12 days – is a celebration of torture and inhumane treatment in Norwegian prisons, believe it or not. Is there an SV that says this? No, this is the Civil Ombudsman saying. The Civil Ombudsman tells us that, among other things. Christmas Eve is a celebration of torture and inhuman treatment in Norwegian prisons. The Civil Ombudsman made a very alarming report on this this this summer, which Stortinget has only begun to discuss so far. I'll take this up a little later over the winter. He also tells us that the custody of prisons is not working. They have a very weak mandate. He also says that the legal trail – going through a lawyer to promote a case if you are illegally isolated – requires resources, and there is no free legal aid for the prisoners who are exposed to it. So the situation is that over the last four years, we've cut 150 million. kr to prisons. The consequence of these cuts is that there has been more torture in Norwegian prisons – and it is not I who say, it is the Civil Ombudsman who says. There has been more torture in Norwegian prisons because this government has cut the appropriations for prisons. Then I have to hand over the responsibility to those who are now going to vote for this budget today. Are they willing to come up to this pulpit and say: Yes, I am voting in favour of this budget, although I know that this budget will lead to more torture in Norwegian prisons. I expect them to come up and answer that. I expect the representative Himanshu to come up and respond to it, that the representative Horne will come up and respond to it, and that the representative Frølich will come up and respond to it – that the budget to which they say yes will lead to more torture and inhumane treatment in prisons, and they will vote for it anyway. That is the consequence. The majority is constitutionally responsible for securing human rights in Norway, and then my challenge to the government parties here today, and to the Minister of Justice, is that they come up to the pulpit and defend why they are stockpiling, proposing and adopting a budget for criminal care which, according to the Civil Ombudsman, will lead to more torture and inhumane treatment in Norwegian prisons.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e351	Would the representative like to comment on the SV's proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e356	I will.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e362	The representative Petter Eide has taken up the proposals from SV. Then I'm sure the representative meant Eide to say the representative Gulati.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e369	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e374	The left is not in the Justice Committee, but I use the opportunity to make some comments. The two main tasks of the state when it comes to this field are the security of citizens and the respect of the institutions of the state, their strength and soundness. One of the main institutions is the Court of Justice, with competent and competent judges throughout the country, so that we have a low time of trial, and that there is legal certainty in the decisions taken by the courts. The second is the police, both that the police staff around Norway are good, that the investigation capacity is present in the districts, that research is carried out as quickly as it can be done, and not least that it is directed in a good and quality manner. Not least, it is important that we have legal aid schemes that provide for citizens who do not have the resources to safeguard their own legal security – not just on the criminal side, because there is a right to free legal assistance, a free defence, but that there are other ways to seek out their right through legislation. It is good that we have legal aid schemes. Now it is not so often that the Left can boast of the Progress Party Councils, but I would say that both the Advance Party Councils in this field are doing an excellent job of securing the institutions of the state, and not least the security of the citizens. During the elections, we saw that the Labour Party drew its support for the police reform. I think it was very unfortunate to draw the support of a reform that we know has the Yawn Commission as a hindrance. It was absolutely necessary to take a number of measures in the interest of the police, because it was seen that the preparedness failed so badly on 22 July. I've visited both the Police Directorate, the Police Union and several police districts in the last few months and have learned that there are, of course, challenges that remain, and that they are working hard on this, but at the same time very much in the right direction. It's important to remember. This budget strengthens the police by 400 million. kr, and that is just the forward-looking attitude that I am very pleased that the FrP Councils, along with the Left in the Government, contribute to, so that we get a better and strengthened police force. I visited Bergen and the district there, and I think we've all read about these assault cases. It's one side of the police reform that these things probably wouldn't have been possible to reveal if you hadn't had the police reform the way you have. Stronger police districts with a focus on this and good competence and resources help to identify such issues. We're pretty sure these numbers were high in the past as well, and even though there's a lot of child abuse, I think there's an increase of 350 pst. when it comes to uncovered attack material online, etc., i.e. reported issues – we know that the darkness figures are still high. There is almost an insatiable need considering how much money we can lock into this. At Stovner, I met a very forward-looking staff who are working on thread crime – the representative of Bøhler is here and knows well about this problem in Oslo. You've had gangs in Oslo all along, since I was a little little boy -- the infamous Tveita guy, who broke the police, it was Young Guns, it's gone, and the A guy we heard about, but no one remembers it anymore, and the B guy. Ginger comes and goes, and the police are working hard to break the crowds that are coming. I'm sure the police are working on this issue – I've seen the police working on this issue. I met the police at Stovner. Now I'm not quoting anyone, but what you're left with is that some of them are a little surprised that it doesn't go any worse because there are so big social challenges among families living in these cities. After the visit to Stovner, together with Odd Einar Dørum and Carl-Erik Grimstad, I have arranged that we might need a sector-wide reform, an interaction reform in the justice sector, where we get Nav, child protection, school, health and the police to talk to each other. Because we see that the challenges are being met with these young people, but there is too little interaction here. It could be that in a transitional phase, in the long term, we could also need a special investment for Oslo, because Oslo is so distinct from all parts of the country. Towards the end – 5 minutes is very short in such an important debate – I would like to recall the dramatic shooting in August, during the election campaign. It was extremely fortunate that it did not happen the day before, because then it had been Friday prayer. It was also extremely lucky that it didn't happen the next day, then it might have been at the bottom of a thousand people at the id celebration. We must bear in mind that extremism is one of the most important struggles we face – we also see it in one of our neighbouring countries, in Denmark, and the challenges there – and that we are also working with deradicalisation and preventing radicalisation in prisons, for those who sit there. In this debate we have to remember one thing: Norway is a very safe country. We must not forget that in the debate that is about to follow.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e393	I have the pleasure of shadowing justice on behalf of the Christian People's Party. People are very concerned about security, security and justice. It is a particular responsibility in our society to maintain and build trust between public institutions, decisions and what people experience in their everyday lives, and justice policy must take care of these conditions. Crime is changing, and crime must be combated where it exists. In our time, it is happening in new places and through new channels. We need to have a goal and a responsibility to facilitate that it is safe everywhere 24 hours a day. That is why police reform must continue and justice must be given sufficient resources to carry out its social mission. Law and order must be maintained. It may be in place today to commend both the Norwegian police and our courts for their demanding work in preventing, resolving and judging unwanted actions. One of the most serious societal problems we have in Norway is violence and abuse in close relationships. The most serious thing is, of course, the traumas and injuries that result in individuals. Carefully estimated, 100,000 people in our small country are subjected to violence in a close relationship. So the social costs are estimated at about 6 billion. kr annually. The whole of political Norway has seen and been concerned about this for a number of years, and much has been done, but this pressure needs to be kept up. Violence and abuse are not a consequence of policies, but policies can help prevent them from happening. The Christian People's Party has a strong ownership of the escalation plan against violence and abuse and is pleased that it is being followed up in the budget for 2020. One of the more recent phenomena in Norway is the worrying extent of recriminalism. We are pleased to note that the next year budget includes specific funds to combat juvenile and recriminalism, but we need to improve on analysing the cause of this tragic increase. In many cases it is about recruiting young people who experience falling between all the chairs and who think that they no longer have anything to lose. Of course, the phenomenon must be combated by the police, but also by early detection of young people who are struggling, and systematic efforts to integrate. These are young people who have recently been children. They need to be seen, not just as lawbreakers, but as advisers, people who need necessary follow-up. Furthermore, we need to have a good rehabilitation offer with adapted atonements and shelters. Criminal services must have the right capacity, so that people can quickly restart after acquittal. In this connection, I am pleased that we have received 1.5 million. kr to IOGT, which carries out important care activities in this sector and represents the non-profit sector. I also wish that there will be much better cooperation between health and care institutions and the police and the judiciary. It has a general preventive perspective, namely to secure the public against convicted and sick people who can commit serious untruths, so-called ticking bombs. Here we have to be able to see if there are rules of silence that prevent contacts between the necessary bodies. The government will further reduce the structural maintenance of the criminal justice system. That is Christian People's Party very pleased with. Personally, I allow myself to mention this because I am concerned about the prison situation in the Haugesund region, and will follow developments with interest in the future. Major demands are being made on the justice sector, and there are still unmet needs in both police, criminal justice, courts and preparedness in general. But the government has made a good budget for the justice sector for 2020. And then there's a bull I might as well take the horns right away to save time. The Christian People's Party has, by several rounds in the past, so-called the open asylum in Kleivgrend. We couldn't do that this time. We're very sorry about that, but that's not all that's important, for which we're able to get a pass in a small party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e416	Then it is my lot to present a budget that the opposition obviously believes is a disastrous budget, but it is nevertheless a budget of 4.4 billion. kr more than what one of my predecessors, Knut Storberget, called a good police budget. The government builds its policy on meeting the social and individual security needs. The government is actively working to combat crime and to follow closely the development of crime. Crime has often become cross-border. We just saw a huge seizure that Kripos made along with Danish and Swedish police. This is going to be more of a reality in the future. Crime has also become more complex. Criminals use both the street and not least data to carry out traditional crime. That's why it's necessary that we make it possible for our society to live a safe and healthy life, and that means that we have to bet on both data and on the street. When the representative, Mr Mehl, refers to the rapporteur who says that it is not on the web of drugs, I think they are wrong. What we also see in Norway is that it is on the Internet that you get the drugs. And then there's a bunch in the districts who like to accept and distribute it between themselves. What we're seeing is that they're increasingly using the network to have some kind of infrastructure to get themselves illegalities and to implement illegalities, and this means that we need to have intelligence both online and on the street. We've had a large crew of Norwegian police, but that doesn't mean we put the final line here. If you take those extras from the Police College in the next few years, there are almost 1,000 people, and these are people we're going to need in the Norwegian police in the future. So we've come a long way through the police reform, because we've made some quality improvements, but that doesn't mean that this government now thinks the police crew is good, or that we're satisfied with it and put the finish line here and now. That is why, in this draft budget, we have proposed 100 million. kr more to facilitate the recruitment of new graduates from the Swedish Police College, in addition to 150 million. kr for recruitment of those who were trained in 2019. We have also strengthened the investigation in the police districts – not in the special agencies, but in the police districts – by 83 million. kr. This goes like free money to the police districts, so they can figure out where the money is needed. It is not only the police districts that need refinancing, we also need to maintain a good preparedness around. One of the challenges has been to maintain helicopter preparedness in the north. That's 61 million. kr for increased helicopter standby. It's going to make it still an hour's notice to get hold of the helicopter for police missions. That's good, because we need that. There are also other things that come as a result of us being part of the Schengen system. We're getting a new entry and exit system. This makes us get better control, and we get better control of migration. That is why I have also made a number of appropriations there, including: 22.6 million. NOK to a new system, of which SEK 13 million. kr goes to UDI and 9.6 million. kr goes to the police. For several years, the trial period in the courts has been higher than that of the Grand Duchy. That is why we have invested in digitisation – 20 million. kr goes to it. This again means that the procedure is going faster, and there is also an effect for the police here, precisely because we see things in context, because it also saves the police a lot of time to copy process papers. Finally, I just want to say a little about the criminal justice system, because Petter Eide raised an important issue. That's exactly why we've put 22 million. NOK for the rehabilitation of Ila, and not least we have set aside SEK 17 million. Dr for the design of a new prison in Oslo. For one of the important things the Civil Ombudsman has pointed out is that the building mass makes us unable to maintain good enough housing conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e437	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e442	I'm glad to hear from the Minister of Justice that the staff in the police are not good enough. What's fine with such debates is that one can also make such statements. In May 2019, the Council of State replied to a question from the signature that he would come to Stortinget with a ‘ready message’, a big message with adjustments and measures when it comes to both police reform and the situation. Report after report has come and has slaughtered the implementation of the police reform. A researcher said that if this process had been carried out in a private company, it would not have been the only one added again. We have had the Council of State here to do some good for the alarming situation in the police, and all the answers the Council of State has had to give to the criticism have been that there should be a big message. She has not come - no actions, no adjustments. Now, we're about to have a Christmas holiday, I'd almost been happy to read a little bit about it in the Rome Christmas. My question is whether the Minister of Justice keeps us in the opposition, the police and the people too fooled.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e449	I believe that this is an important fact that the representative of Mrs Wagzlid has not brought about, namely that the most important measure was already in the State budget. We also said that this was one of the most important measures. So we're going to add 400 million. More on Norwegian police through the adoption of this State budget. So that's 350 million. kr to strengthen the Norwegian police force in the operating budget, and then 20 million. kr extra from the Committee. In addition to that, the government in aging has also proposed 30 million. kr more to the police, because they have had major and demanding issues in 2019. I also said that in my statement, that this is a recognition that we have too little police coverage in Norway, and that these are challenges. As to why the police communication is delayed, we are going to try to give an accurate description of the actual situation, and it has evolved very much in 2019. So to get an up-to-date basis, that message has been delayed.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e456	I thank you for your answer. If it were to prove that what the Minister of Justice has brought in during 2019 is the criticism from the opposition, it would be positive. But to think that the judicial budget that is approved here today is the answer to the problems of the Workers' Party, the Centre's Party, SV and the opposition have traveled, is nothing but profoundly disappointing. Then we can't solve the problems and challenges in the police. So I hope now, at least, that message comes soon after New Year's. I have another question I also want to ask the Minister of Justice. It's Kleivgrend – the open prison in Fyresdal, in my state of Telemark. We lack good arguments for why the government and the right will put this prison down. Former Minister of Justice Anders Anundsen has had good arguments against the Committee on Women's Rights. Mr. Hoksrud, the party colleague of the State Council from Telemark, has worked on the matter. Nevertheless, one should force through decommissioning here in Stortinget tonight. Why is it so important for the Minister of Justice and the Right-wing Government to put a well-functioning prison in Telemark?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e463	It is not that it is important to put a prison down, but it is important to ensure that the capacity of prisons is adapted to those going in and out. Looking at trends, we see that there is less need for low-security prisons and that there is a greater need for high-security prisons. We've just completed an expansion of Arendal prison to over 2 billion. kr, where one of the assumptions in the calculations was that Kleivgrend should be taken down. So that's probably the right thing to do in a situation where you need more high security places. So we can't have a situation in any years where rape offenders, who should have been in high-security prison, zones in an open prison. It's probably something the Workers' Party likes, based on their thinking on criminal matters, but I don't think people who have committed killings should be on open ground.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e468	That's where the cat came out of the bag. If the Minister of Justice knows who is the son of Kleivgrend today, or in the other open prisons for that matter, he knows that there is a very numerous group of inmates. The Minister of Justice is quite right: we see very different penalties. Then I almost have to ask: does the Minister of Justice really mean what he just said, that people who are convicted of killing, or convicted of election, can't zone in an institution like Kleivgrend? If there's a change in policy, I want to confirm it now.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e474	It's a change in relation to what people have been convicted of. We see that there are increasing numbers of more and more serious crimes. Crime prevention has come to the conclusion in its forecasts that fewer low-security sites and more high-security sites are needed. The question then is: are we going to have a policy change to preserve more of the low-security areas by saying that we want more people who have committed a serious crime, who were supposed to be in high-security areas before, to be zoned in low-security areas, because we want to take care of prisons with low security? It's a development I don't want to go in for. I want those who are at home on high security to continue to zone on high security.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e479	Lier Municipality has over 25,000 inhabitants, and they were allowed to keep their office after the police reform. On 5 April 2018, Stortinget adopted the following: ‘The government is asking for a real strengthening of the offices of local officials that remain after the implementation of the police reform.’ In Lier, the staff has been reduced from 24 full-time employees to 2 and one has gone from having a full-time labour office to having an office with opening hours between 10 and 14 Monday and Thursday. It's just the kind of office that the government has criticized and used as an argument to carry out the whole police reform, so here the government itself has created a police station that they think is absolutely terrible. Then my question is: how is the new Lier Länsmannskontor compatible with the Storting decision that all remaining Länsmannskontoret should be strengthened?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e491	The most important thing must be how the residents of Lier can get a protection from the police if anything happens seriously, and if crime happens. This is precisely why both research capacity and other research capacities have been strengthened in each district, for example. in order to have a better basis for combating serious crime committed and implemented via the network. When we see that much of the serious crime has moved to the web, there is also an important thing that makes those county officials who previously did not have this capacity have now been given that top competence. They have also been given an acute qualification that was previously reserved for only the big cities. In fact, I think it is the most important thing to strengthen the Länsmann offices, because it is not just about how many people work at the Länsmannskontoret, it is about the quality you can manage in the area where the Länsmannskontoret was responsible for.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e498	It is very nice to hear what the Council of State thinks is important, but he has a decision to deal with, and that decision is that the rest of the Länsmann offices should be strengthened in real terms. Since it does not help the Council of State to think that the most important thing is to have a strengthened police district, for what has happened is that all policemen have been transferred from Lier to Drammen. The Council of State does not escape the fact that Lier Länsmannskontoret has not been strengthened. You can't reduce the crew by 22 people and say it's a reinforcement. It's impossible. There are 85 municipalities – which still have county offices after the police reform – that have experienced a decline in police year-on-year work. Then my question is to the Council of State: does the Council of State mean that he does not have to follow a decision on the size of the city? Because what I am asking about here is a very specific decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e505	I think it's a little different perception of what it means 'to strengthen'. In my head, it means to strengthen that you give a better service. So I understand that for the Center Party, it's about the number of loner offices. They now believe that instead of putting down 106, you just have to put down 101, and that it is a significant strengthening – as I understand the alternative budget of the Central Party – and that it is about the number of people who work in a county office, regardless of whether it is civil or police positions. Instead, I think the most important thing is: how good is the guard and the standby in Lier now? They're pretty close to the Drammen. Is it true that Lier's security and preparedness have been significantly weakened? Yes, then we have a challenge in fulfilling that request decision, and that is of course one thing I will take seriously in that case. But just counting heads I think I'm saying little about the quality of Lier's inhabitants.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e512	I will continue a little where I left off, about the risk of illegal isolation, in other words also the risk of a breach of the prohibition of inhuman treatment and torture. The Minister of Justice has known about this report from the Civil Ombudsman since the summer. Nevertheless, he budgets for criminal services, for prisons, in such a way as to increase the risk of illegal isolation. In other words, the risk of more torture and isolation in prisons increases. So my question is very simple: why does he, when he knows that the budget he now defends will lead to more illegal isolation and more torture in Norwegian prisons?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e519	I believe that this budget, also with the additions that have come from the Committee, will lead to less inhumane treatment in prison. But one of the major challenges, as the Civil Ombudsman has also pointed out, is not something we can solve in a single budget. It's about building conditions, because when you built prison in the past, it was about having the most cells in a building. Now it's about actually being able to facilitate rehabilitation and not least being able to get out of the cell, so that you don't get isolated. Because that's the isolation we're talking about here, and that the Civil Ombudsman has pointed out. It's about making sure that they can get together with other prisoners and that they're going to have an outing. We've now set that at 17.5 million. That's why we're getting an investigation into new Oslo prison, because it's one of the biggest prisons, where we have quite big challenges. In addition, we've spent two billion dollars. kr to build a new Arendal prison, which has been set up in a completely different way than in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e526	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e531	The Council of State here clarified in the reply with the representative of the Vågslid that it is a misguided policy; the Progress Party and the Right Government want to change Norwegian criminal justice. The cat is out of the bag. The next time some of the members of the government parties visit Baskød, I suggest that they clearly say that this prison does not need the right government. But we've been doing this for a long time, because the signs have been clear. After it was spent around 1 billion. I want to send prisoners to the Netherlands to zone, they have now returned. I dare say that this must be one of the most delicate measures of the right-wing government to bring down the reconciliation queue. But there's water clean in the river, so I'll leave it. Unfortunately, we started this year with a marathon of closures. The whole six open prisons were closed, and now we know the reason there's going to be another one. Last Friday I visited the small forest camp in Fyresdal. Here, employees go to work every single time with rehabilitation through work and responsibility towards the prisoners primarily in their foreheads. At Kleivgrend, the prisoners do not sit on the cella, but get the opportunity to master their own life and get to the right keel – in the woods, working with the school and in the kitchen. They contribute to the community of value creation in the forest in Fyresdal, and this will now be deliberately abandoned, because that is not the way we are going to zone in Norway anymore. The Christian People's Party has previously ensured that this has not happened, and I understand that the representatives are sorry. But going in for a wild policy of putting down open prisons because you don't want to – then I would have hoped that the time of miracles was not over, even for the Christian People's Party. The ABE reform has strongly intervened in criminal matters. These hard ABE cuts have gone beyond the first line in such a way that it must be noticed, even inside the Minister of Justice's office. This will remove the content of prisons – the detention programmes, work operations and other meaningful activities that are the foundation of Norwegian criminal justice. But we understand today that this is not important. Then there is this vulnerable group of prisoners, the seriously mentally ill. Last year we had a hope when it was granted money to build on Ila. Nothing happened. I was there in the spring – there was not turned into a nail in the wall, and there was not torn a wall to set up anything new. Now we see that there is money allocated, and I am happy to visit Ila again in the spring to follow closely the development. For during this year, the Civil Ombudsman has had to make a special announcement to the Stortinget about the situation of isolation in Norwegian prisons. This message is so serious, and it points to as many mistakes – yes, this is a major challenge in terms of people’s legal certainty and the country as a legal state. Then it helps very little that the prisoners in Agder will now get the iPad on the cell. We have to put in the money where the need is greater. So until the last stab by Minister of Justice Kalldmyr: A few months ago the message came that now kids are going to be jailed in normal high-security prisons for adult men. So it's proposed and allocated 6 million. NOK for this to go smoothly. It's not nearly half what's needed to cover the deficit that prison already has. I took the trip to Eidsvoll prison, which is a youth unit, and I was surprised. It says square meters is ready to expand the youth unit, if the government wants it. But no, you're going to jail the kids in the high-security prison at Eidsberg. Get it, whoever wants it. The working party sees that with the room for action that the criminal services have now received, we have to go in for a large-scale escalation plan. For the government's policy works in criminal care as it works to cut forests. It goes so fast to get it down, but to get it built up again is going to take time. With the Workers' Party, we can turn this around. Thank you for me.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e550	The President would remind us that 'Iggu' is not a parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e555	I'm not sure that 'beware of me well' is a parliamentary expression either, so I shouldn't say it. Norway has the best criminal services in the world, and we should be proud of that. For this, we should first of all thank you very much for the excellent additions and many dedicated volunteers. But political priorities also play an important role. Uncovering challenges and putting in action are policy-makers’ tasks. Since 2014, the government has prioritised both content in soning and prison buildings. Resource teams were established at Ila in 2014 to improve the situation of mentally ill inmates and prevent isolation. A nationally strengthened community department for the deployment of serious mental disorders and the provision of treatment for persons convicted of sexual offences is established by Ila. In Bjørgvin prison, a new detoxification pilot project will be launched, with health professionals undertaking detoxification inside the prison. An extensive effort has also been launched to combat radicalisation of deployments. The low coating has made it possible in recent years to shut down entire departments and give room for upgrade and renewal. The development of Agder prison is the largest single-stage expansion of prison capacity in Norwegian history, and will set a new standard for how prison buildings and digital solutions can be used in repatriation work. The departments are built to provide as little insulation as possible. The opposition is trying to draw a picture of most things going wrong in criminal matters, but I'm very uncertain whether we're going to want to go back to the situation in 2013. Prison queues today are below 450, compared with 1 200 in 2013. Capacity utilisation was 97 pst. in 2013, versus 88 pst. in 2018 and parts of 2019. Eight evacuations from high-security prisons were registered in 2013. In 2018, there was no escape for the first time in history. There was no breach of the deadline for transfer from police detention to prison in 2018. There have been record transfers to the rest of the world in recent years. In 2018, this amounted to 38 000 prison days. The number of samples selected and the puzzles against adding is now going down. The number of selected and intrusions between inserts is much lower in 2018 than they were in 2014. In addition, Norway has the lowest relapse rate measured against most of the countries with which we can compare. If this is too good to be true for the opposition, they can only see in the Status Report for the Criminal Service for 2018. There is a lot of criticism of the government's criminal law policy, and the Labour Party is particularly keen on this. I have followed the complaint song on many occasions and had expected the Workers' Party's alternative budget to be an echo of the massive promises they've been shouting over the whole country. The reality is that the Labour Party permits 50 million. In addition to the operational means of criminal justice in its alternative budget, the Eidsvoll Youth Unit has the right to maintain Kleivgrend Prison and reverse the government’s ABE reform, which is intended to cut red tape and administration. In addition, they highlight a number of other actions in the setting that they don't allow for money: They will strengthen the capacity to deal with seriously mentally ill offenders in psychiatry and strengthen treatment provision in prison. They will expand the number of drug substitution units and strengthen the drug and life-mestering programmes. They shall have up-to-date safety equipment and propose immediate measures to prevent the risk of illegal isolation. And besides, they seem to be content to propose an economic escalation plan for criminal services. These are very costly proposals which, unfortunately, are not followed up in the Workers' Party's alternative budget. Should a person take the Worker Party seriously, one must be able to expect that it will also include funds. Right-wing supports the important priorities that have been set in the criminal justice system in recent years. The launch of projects for new Oslo prisons and additional rehabilitations at Ila in 2020 is important, and it is not least that investments are being made in the necessary security measures in prison. I am also pleased that the government party wants to allow extra funds for Bergen prison next year, to start up a resource team to work targeted with isolation prevention measures. Everything isn't top-notch, but we're going to work purposefully to also have the best criminal care in the world in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e614	The security and preparedness of citizens and the defence of the country may be the most important task of the country. So that's how Police Norway and Preparedness Norway are a changing area of society, which is a very good reason: the experiences of the Gjørv Commission, which had to be taken seriously, the fact that crime has changed, in both its type and form, and not least the changed threat picture, with the new types of threats we're experiencing. There may be three of the main reasons why Police Norway and Justice Norway are in a transformation and change. And these aren't changes that are kind of a free choice, these are changes that are a necessity and a duty because of the changes we see in society. Rome was not built one day, and leading a sector through a transformation also takes time. But this budget is an important building block in modernising and transforming the future of Justice Norway. That is why I would also like to sum up some of the important things that are in the budget: it is designed to enable more newly trained police officers to be employed. It facilitates the achievement of the goal of two police officers per thousand inhabitants, a goal that was set under the red-green, but that we all support. It facilitates the establishment of a new rescue helicopter base in North Norway. Increased digitisation in the courts is being facilitated. There are also many other things – several are also mentioned by some of my colleagues earlier today. I respect the impatience of the opposition. We're also representing the government parties. In line with good political tradition, the opposition budgets often contain more sums than what has been done by the government and the position, an exercise I must admit that we remember well from our opposition time itself. That's often the way it should be. But it's impossible to ignore the huge increase the police have got in their budgets in recent years. You might think that more should be done, you might be impatient, but you can't pretend it hasn't been a bet. The amount of money spent on police operating budgets has been in excess of 4 billion. kr – these are not insignificant sums of money – in addition to employing around 1700 new police officers. These are real bets that make us better police, better operational capacity, and make everyday life safer. One might say that more should be done, one might say that the challenges have been greater, but the police have got a strong commitment, and then together we get to make sure that the bet continues in the same style. In the area of police reform, too, there are undoubtedly challenges. We all know that, and when we travel around and visit different districts, we often hear about where it is lacking. But I wish that the opposition also took with them the examples from the police districts where the results of the reform start to be seen, from the police leaders who boast of the effects of the reform. We are not done with the reform, we have challenges that we have to tackle, and I am glad that this will also be done in the police communication, which will come soon, but pretending that the police reform has not produced results, has not led to better police in some districts – ignoring those results – I believe that I am going to be a wrong approach. I also got a challenge, or the whole position got a challenge, from the representative Petter Eide in terms of prison and isolation and torture. It's a very important issue, but I disagree with the representative, Eide, that the budget is adding up to increased torture. He addressed the question of human rights and conditions in prison, a theme of which the government is concerned. The government therefore established a strengthened team at Ila as early as 2014. In 2019, it will be followed up with its own department for serious illness. Old prisons are replaced by new, modern prisons, which involves billions of investments. Isolation is a field for which Norway has generally been widely criticised, and where we still have a lot to go on, but more measures are being taken here, including work on new legislation and measures for increased activation and activation plans. So I disagree with the starting point and the premise of the representative Petter Eide, although there is no doubt that isolation has been a topic of Norwegian criminal care over many years, where we have been encouraged to do more, and where there is now a work to address these things.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e629	The Government continues its efforts to strengthen preparedness for Norway to be prepared to deal with crises, serious situations and new threats locally and nationally. The government will present a major communication on social security in the spring of 2020. The budget submitted for the justice sector reflects the government’s priorities of social security. In line with one of the intentions of the new Security Act, the government will strengthen the interaction between authorities and businesses that maintain national security interests. The government will strengthen its efforts to address threats in the digital space, raise awareness of both the public and private sectors and work to secure public institutions and key functions against data attacks. For 2020, the government therefore proposes to increase the allocation by 40 million. kr for logical safety in emergency networks. In addition, the Government proposes to increase the national safety authority’s budget by 20 million. to work on digitising tasks under the Security Act. The aim of the reinforcement is primarily to contribute to increased quality and efficiency through digitisation and automation of the clearing process. Systematic knowledge development is an important basis for prevention measures that contribute to fewer incidents and better preparedness. The government will therefore increase the allocation to NSM by 5.4 million. kr, in line with the long-term plan for the defence sector, in order to enhance the analysis and detection of serious digital attacks on digital infrastructure. In addition, the government proposes to grant 12.5 million. kr for research into digital security and the effects of technological development. Rescue helicopters are an important part of the emergency response. The government continues its efforts to acquire 16 new rescue helicopters and maintain the operation of today's Sea King helicopters. The government proposes to grant about 3 billion. kr for this purpose. To further strengthen helicopter preparedness in North Norway, the government aims to establish a new rescue helicopter base in Tromsø. The new base is planned to be put into operation during 2022. In Norwegian rescue and preparedness, it is a strength that many different actors, both public, private and voluntary, are involved and contribute in different ways before, during and after an event. The Government has decided to strengthen the Central Rescue Centres by merging them into one operation – the Main Rescue Centre – and by adding its own Executive Director. The Director is responsible for the overall administrative management of the business and the position is added to Bodø. This is an important measure to strengthen and further develop the rescue services in both the short and long term. The position of a director in Bodø is also helping to strengthen a region where it is important that we have good preparedness. Voluntary organisations in the rescue services make an invaluable contribution to the rescue service. The government wants to help voluntary organisations maintain and strengthen their position in emergency preparedness in Norway. There has been a great deal of effort under this government to strengthen total defence in Norway. We are now in the final period of the Total Defense Programme, and that means that we are going to continue our efforts to re-educate total defence and strengthen the resilience of our societal critical functions. In rescue operations, good communication is important. The government will therefore grant 6 million. kr in order to better discharge Norway's responsibilities for rescue preparedness in the northern sea areas through improved coverage of the HF radio link in the area. The government also proposes to grant 1.1 million. kr for the investigation of a mobile population alert system. The government proposes to grant 15.6 million. to continue to participate in the EU Civil Protection Mechanism. There are major demands for the justice sector and there are still unmet needs in the area of social security and preparedness, but with this budget, the government has provided a good basis for the work of social security in 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e656	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e661	Protection of the civilian population is an important part of our preparedness, and with developments in the world, with terror, states using terrorist methods such as gas attacks, chemical weapons and biological weapons, shelters have become relevant in a different way – a new way – today. In the first half of 2016, a draft investigation was carried out by the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness, where they called for an alarm and said that shelters had not been dealt with as protective measures in practice for a long time. New shelters had not been built, and the existing ones had an unsolved status. The government sent the investigation to the hearing in the summer of 2017. I have repeatedly brought this up in Stortinget after that, and we have made suggestions. The government promised in 2017 that it would present a plan for follow-up to the concept investigation, but there has been nothing about it in any of the subsequent state budgets, i.e. neither in 2018, 2019 nor now for 2020. So my question is, what will the government do to follow up the concept investigation on shelter?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e670	That's exactly what the representative says. The DSB has made a recommendation on what civil protection measures Norway should have in the future. The proposal has been widely consulted, and many useful input has been made. Furthermore, in June this year, the DSB provided the Ministry of Justice with an impact and cost analysis of the measures proposed in the report. The security policy situation and the changing vulnerability picture that we see both in Norway and in the countries around us mean that we need to change our priorities. In case of a possible terrorist attack using e.g. we will not be able to protect toxic gases with the old arrangements we have with shelters. We will come back to this in the Social Security Communication, which we are presenting in 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e675	I am concerned about the answer because you constantly push it in front of you and say that the old shelter system will not be able to protect you from, for example. gas attack. I think I can discuss that. When Stortinget renewed the Civil Protection Act, the last time it was dealt with here at Stortinget, it was repeated that we should use refuge to protect the population and that they should be upgraded. They may be upgraded with equipment so that they can protect against e.g.: gas attack, biological attack. That's what's our point. For example, if it happens – it may also be an accident – that a gas tank leaks somewhere in Oslo, it will take time before the toxic cloud spreads throughout the city, and in the event of a gas attack in Oslo, it will take time for it to spread across the whole area. Then it will be very important for the population to be able to search for shelters and to be alerted. So I'm concerned that the government is giving signals that it won't follow the law, the Civil Protection Act, which says we're going to expand shelters to protect the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e680	I like the questions. I am pleased that the representative is also concerned about the civilian population in a difficult situation. It is important to point out that there is also a requirement for these shelters to be prepared within 72 hours. We know that by the kind of terror, or the kind of uncertainty that we have in society today, the shelters won't be useful in that kind of situation. Therefore, the government also looks at other types of civil protection measures. We've now given you 1.1 million. In the State budget to explore the possibilities for civil protection measures to alert the mobile population – population alerting. In this way, we can go directly into where the estimate may be made, with information that allows the population to act adequately afterwards, based on the situation they are in.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e685	Information is good, but you have to know what to do with the information, where to deal with it. I believe that the 72-hour deadline is one of the things that should definitely be re-assessed from that concept investigation, whether or not there should be a completely different requirement for when the shelters should be clear. I also have one more question about protection. Security forces are involved in the emergency situation in the capital. The police chief in Oslo, when they have expressed their opinion on the future of the Police College, has stressed the importance of being in Oslo and having a large number of students, because they are part of the security force in Oslo in an emergency situation where objects and elsewhere in Oslo are to be secured. Has the government decided to cut down the number of students at the Police College to 80, so that they do not really have a contribution to the security force from there?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e692	As Minister of Social Security, I am responsible for coordinating and seeing the overall picture of preparedness in Norway. The Minister of Justice is responsible for the area the representative asks about now. I recommend that he be allowed to respond to the assessments made regarding police forces in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e697	The police have got a much higher threshold to move out after the police reform, and then it is often the fire department that comes first. In 2018, the fire department first came to the scene in more than half of all triple alert outages, and the ambulance is also much more frequent than the police. There may be serious, dangerous situations of ongoing life-threatening violence, in which the fire service shall assess whether or not to intervene — even if this is the case, for example. an ongoing knee attack. But the fire department doesn't have police training. It's not their job. Nevertheless, they are expecting them to do the police's job when the police themselves fail to do so. Then I would like to ask the Council of State where the police's responsibility really is when such a situation arises. Who is responsible if the fire service does not intervene in a life-threatening situation, and who is responsible if the fire service intervenes, but it goes wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e707	The fire and rescue service is an important and, not least, highly sought resource that is present where people live, precisely because of the structure and organisation of the fire and rescue facilities. They provide quick help where people need it, when they need it. We see a development in which the fire and rescue unit is assigned more and more tasks, but it is important to mention here that fire and rescue is a municipal responsibility, and the tasks to be performed by the fire and rescue unit are governed by the Fire and Explosion Protection Act. Under the law, the municipality may also impose other duties on the fire and rescue department, provided that it does not impair their statutory duties.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e714	It's not like they have a choice. When a triple alert arrives and the police are far away, the fire department must move out. When they get to the place first, it's not because someone has decided they're going to get a new job; it's because the police don't do their job, so the police are going to be skewed. Then the municipalities get more costs, and firefighters get more responsibility. Social security and preparedness are affected when the fire department has to solve police duties because the police are not working. Does the Minister for Social Security think that there is a good situation as it works today?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e721	In the Granavolden platform, we have addressed just the challenges that the representative mentions. It is demanding to look at the role clarification between the three floors. We'll get back to that in the Social Security Communication. I have repeated that here in Stortinget, both in oral Question Time and in answers to written questions. What is also important here is that the fire director is the damage officer in a situation until the management is taken over by the police. We're also going to review the role explanation between these three floors and look at what kind of resources we can put in. But it is important to see that it is often the fire service that comes first at triple warning. In those kinds of incidents, there are very often traffic accidents where people need the help of fire and rescue, not the police, because they need to be cut out of the wrecks.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e728	I want to ask about emergency networks. It is important for many non-governmental organisations to be able to provide a good rescue service, but they spend a lot of money buying emergency terminals and purchasing subscriptions to increase the number of terminals and thus strengthen their preparedness. My question to the Minister for Social Security is: How can we ensure that NGOs have access to many enough emergency network terminals?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e735	I'm very pleased with that question. I have seen in the remarks in the budget that both the Workers' Party and the Senter Party claim that it is the volunteers themselves who cover the costs of emergency networks. That's wrong. They don't. We're funding the scheme. It is a self-financed scheme through a subscription scheme. Individual volunteers receive an invoice from the DSB, but they receive a corresponding grant from the Ministry of Justice and Defence. In 2019 we have allocated a total of 31 million. NOK in order to cover the cost of subscriptions to the voluntary emergency networks. On the other hand, I am very concerned that everyone who spends their spare time helping and saving others has the equipment they need. They have recorded the need for additional emergency grid terminals, and I will then definitely bring it to me in next year's budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e742	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e747	One of the tasks that has greatly increased the level of police since the Killangereen report on police capacity came in 2008, and one of the tasks that makes it wrong to stop at two policemen per thousand people is violence in close relationships. A lot of people have talked about this today, and I'm glad it's a priority, both by the government and by the opposition. But we should worry that we've been talking about it for many years since Knut Storberget first launched the book "Bjornen sleeps", and the number of things just increases and increases. So you could say it's because it gets more attention, etc., but I think it's other reasons as well. I think it's not working well enough, that we don't have enough insight into what's behind it. We need to know what this is about, in order to prevent, to do risk assessments, to address the causes. The police working on it, when I've met them, estimate that eight out of ten things that you have here in the Oslo police district, are about social control and honorary violence – that is, that violence in close relationships has a background in it. But it's just an estimate, because you don't have statistics – there's no statistics, and it's not recorded in the criminal justice system. I asked the Council of State in a question hour earlier this year, May 15, if he would introduce a code into the criminal justice system, so that we know how much of the issues relating to violence in close relationships with honor and social control are involved. The council did not answer that he would do so, he replied that he had ‘wanted to go further’, wanted to look at it. That's good, but we have to move on from wanting to. The evening post is actually the only one that has done a big survey of it, it came on March 5, 2016. They had passed through 89 judges on violence in close relationships in the last three years. 82 of them came from events in families with a minority background, 85 pst. from Asia and Africa, and it appeared from the descriptions that it was about control with a background in honor. But very many of the cases, most of them, went without any perpetrator behind the perpetrator, being revealed, i.e. who had pushed him to it, etc. I've been looking at cases since something called the Kalbakken killings, some years back in my community, things where it's the perpetrator that's being taken, but where you're not going to be in a position to reveal who's been pushing the action, who's in the family or the big family, etc. which have been important actors. I think we need to address this if we are to combat violence in close relations better. An example is what happened at Holmlia in June 2016, when a boy, a young footballer aged 16, was knocked down and lay in a coma for five weeks before he died. An SV at Holmlia, Dara Goldar, wrote about this now in the fall of August 8, in the Evening Post: ‘The 16-year-old lost his life because he flirted with the ‘wrong’ girl. [[...]] He's a victim of honor-related violence. Nevertheless, neither police, school, sports club nor local politicians reacted as they should.’ He also writes that you got little information, and that you were afraid to testify because of the danger of reprisals from gang members, because the perpetrator also had his connections. That case is very serious, also because it comes up in court now in January, where it is completely delimited, where it is only about the perpetrator himself, and where there is no word about honor-related violence or anything like that in the prosecution. I'm going to mention one more example, killed at Stream in April, where the victim, she who was killed, repeatedly reported violence against her by the perpetrator without the police making risk assessments or taking action to stop it. The result was that she was killed. So there has been a total lack of focus on what can be behind those reports and behind that violence. I believe it is important that we equip the police to get in position in these matters of violence in close relationships to reveal perpetrators, who require this to be done, which is often as important as taking the perpetrator himself. If we don't, these clans, the great families and the others who are doing this practice will only be able to continue. I allow myself to promote the following loose proposal from the Workers' Party: ‘The government is asking the government to build up police resources and competences on honorary violence in order to better detect and combat this serious form of crime.’ I hope it connects with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e777	The representative Jan Bøhler has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e782	Today, I want to start by saying, 'Heia Start!' So I'm going to go to the post and say that more policemen are absolutely crucial to providing good services to the population. It enables us to meet today's and tomorrow's crime challenges. This government prioritizes the police. The budgets have been increased by 25 pst. during this period of government, employing 2,800 new police officers. Traditional crime is falling, but it is becoming increasingly complicated, more organised, professional and digital. One example is that sexual abuse against children, especially online, has increased by a total of 160 pst. The Gjørv Commission and the police analysis pointed out that the Norwegian police were not organized to deal with tomorrow's crime. That is why a very necessary police reform is being carried out. The Labour Party has drawn support for the police reform without any plan for what they want with the Norwegian police. They also claim in several newspapers that this budget creates less security for people. Such claims create unnecessary uncertainty, and neither do they vote. This budget continues to increase to the police. That means that we get more security. Police are getting more money for more employees, new equipment, enhanced investigation, increased border control and increased helicopter preparedness in North Norway. The Labour Party promises more money for the most part, and they increase taxes by 13 billion. kr in its alternative budget. The tax bill is sent to people and businesses throughout the country. It is difficult, indeed impossible, to understand how they are going to get money for all the additions that are made, while at the same time they are going to reverse government policies in so many areas. Either there is an unknown and even greater tax bill underpinning the extra appropriations for police and criminal justice, or this is empty promises. The Labour Party will, as you know, reverse both the rail reform and the ABE reform, which means several billion dollars a year. They're proposing to cut another 1.8 billion. kr in consulting practice in the country. This is money used to carry out important reforms in the field of justice, for example: renewal of the old and out-of-date IT systems of the police. The Workers' Party's cut in consulting is not a cut in large consulting companies. It is a cut in the implementation of important reforms and modernisation in the police. The police district feedback is that reform work is demanding, but necessary. Of course, the reform is demanding – 17 000 police officers have to work in new ways. Many are moved from their former workplaces and have to deal with new people and different cultures. It takes time to change and get everything in place, but the solution is not to stop a completely necessary reform work. The Labour Party blackpaints police reform, draws up unfortunate individual cases and blames the reform for everything that is wrong. The facts are serious enough, but to claim that the reform is to blame, in my opinion, is very unfortunate. In a new and better structure, we can address the challenges even better. The Labour Party agreed to start the reform, they voted for it, and then they've spent every day stretching their legs under it. It is very regrettable, and it shows that the Workers' Party has left its position as a steering party. In fact, large parts of the police reform work. The chief of police in Agder, Kirsten Lindeberg, says: ‘It has been absolutely necessary for the police to undergo a comprehensive reform. Today’s crime picture and quality requirements for police work have been completely different in a few years. [[...]] After a year of ‘new Agder Police District’, I would argue that we are on the right track. We've professionalized the investigation We've put in place better analytical capacity and competence, which helps us to gain better knowledge about the development of crime Our work is becoming more focused. [[...]] [[...]] [[...]] It is an important turn in police work that we now need to work even more knowledge-based and planned, alone and with others, to prevent crime from happening.’ I am pleased and proud of the work done in the Agder police district, and send from this pulpit a great thank you to the whole floor. And I really wonder what in this reform the Labour Party will change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e808	I will immediately and in another post come back to the criminal services and the revelations that have taken place here today regarding that. But first I want to focus a little bit on the topic of violence in close relationships. I am pleased to note that the entire Judicial Committee states that abuse and violence in close relations are a social problem and that there is serious crime that needs to be prevented far better than today. This should therefore be a problem that everyone agrees to give priority to. However, as we see it, there are considerable differences between the right and left sides of Norwegian policy in this area as well. We still hear that crime has changed, and that has also become the focus of today's debate. It has moved to the web and no longer happens in streets and squares, you would think. From that point of view, police force across the country is no longer essential — the problem lies elsewhere, more diffuse, places. Of course, network abuse shall be controlled by all means. No one should take advantage of innocent children there either. The problem is that it is set up against crime that unfortunately still happens in too many homes, spread throughout the country and in all parts of the people. The violence that's going on at home, where you're going to be safe and careful whether you're young or young and need adults who support you, the violence that hits women behind rolled-down curtains, and that takes away from them freedom, dignity and sometimes life, has not gone away, and it's not going to take a Christmas holiday soon. On the contrary, we go into a time that many people are afraid of – a time when violence escalates, while others of us eat biscuits and burn candles. The time for family food and fun is for some time for increased terror. A report from the Institute of Public Health shows that one in five children is laid, clawed, shaken or beaten with a flat hand. About one in twenty children experiences serious violence. Among girls, 10-20 pst report. on sexual assault. Violence and rape in close relationships is one of the most common offences in Norway. Nearly one in ten women in Norway report having been subjected to violence or rape. These children and these women need someone to care, that there is someone to call, that there are people calling for them, that there are some who are coming, and that there is a place to escape where they are offered help to be free — free to live a dignified life, free from fear and with the freedom to play, have friends and go to school, and freedom to work and visit family. It's not easy to know exactly what works, but what we can be sure of is that it will take a lot of many. It increases the need for relief measures in schools, mental and physical health care, child protection measures, assistance from crisis centres and police resources. All municipalities in the country need to take the problem seriously and make concrete action plans, and they need resources to strengthen school, school health, child protection and prevention. Then, too, the local economy must be robust, as it is called. It's the police you call, and they're the ones who have to face life-threatening situations. Then they have to be close, and the police districts have to have enough resources. It is estimated that between 75 000 and 150 000 people in Norway are exposed to violence annually in a close relationship. Then society has to stand up. No one should stand alone. Those who are subjected to violence and abuse will be helped to live on, even when it is demanding because of poor finances, lack of housing or weak networks. Action against violence and abuse in close relationships needs further strengthening. Violence and rape in close relationships is one of the most common offences in Norway. Here it is important to look at the large amount of money: the transfers to the municipalities and the budgets to the police. Both parts have been strongly strengthened in the Workers' Party's alternative budget. In order to prevent and help more people, we propose to strengthen the total budget for 2020 by about 1 billion. kr. In addition, it is proposed to increase the administrative sector’s operating space by 2.5 billion. kr, which will improve the ability of municipalities to assist those who are victims of violence and abuse. For example, the increased transfer to municipalities adds: to improve the provision of emergency services, child protection and low-threshold health services. It is also proposed to strengthen assistance in the areas of health, nav, municipal services, child protection and justice. In addition, there is a need for a vigilance in prevention to prevent further abuse. Probably this isn't good enough either.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e831	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e837	One of the biggest work is to ensure the safety of the population, and one would think that no matter what colour the government has and a large majority, it would be a priority. But this government is failing the security of the inhabitants and the state of law of Norway. One major project for this government is even more New Public Management, less trust in the employees, even more reporting. The second major project is privatisation or implementation of reforms, not to improve for the population or to improve for the employees. No, it is about reforms for the sake of reform. It is strong to attend meetings with trustees and employees who tell us that the rule of law is being dismantled with the government we have. I'm concerned that we're not going to talk down policemen, because they're doing a fantastic job with the assumptions they've got from today's big crowds. I am concerned that we should have confidence in them and take their everyday life seriously. I represent Buskerud, who belongs to the South-East police district. We have experienced that Norway's leading operating centre that worked, like politicians and professionals at the election speed, was razed without any politicians in this room having pondus enough to say that enough is enough. We've experienced people don't get hold of the police when they call. There's a case with a known perpetrator because you don't have enough people and resources. Preventive work has been lost, which was promised to strengthen the municipalities. Cops are crying at work. Policemen give up and take a break, and they're the most experienced policemen. In the districts, they experience enormous centralization. If you talk to the competent rapporteurs in Hallingdal and Numedal, they see that the offer has been weakened. There's no proximity reform. The right side must stop pushing the top bureaucrat in front of it and instead listen to what the employees say. It's time to say enough. It is time to build trust between Stortinget and the employees in the field. It's time to strengthen the police districts. And then I want to say finally, the State Children's House is important. It's about legal certainty for the most vulnerable. It's about multidisciplinaryism. There my rapporteurs from Hallingdal have asked the Minister of Justice if it is possible to establish an offer there, so that enormous resources and transports vulnerable up to ten hours to Sandefjord so that they can have the legal certainty they need. There too, we see that the answer from the Minister of Justice is bureaucratic. It's not strange, because they've given up the justice sector. They have no ambitions to take the security of the people seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e848	The Nav case has documented that we have a society that has too much class light. Freedom of justice needs to be strengthened, and we need to have a round-the-clock system throughout the administration, especially in management, which can ensure that public administration helps people and is not the worst counterparty you can get. Several representatives have talked about violence in close relationships, and I am also very concerned about that. Many times the alarm goes without the police responding. In many places, there are now difficulties in financing crisis centres, so that they are close by. To all intents and purposes, we have a government council that instead of wanting all children to have a white Christmas, we have been out and declared that here in Norway we drink alcohol, when we know how much violence it is associated with alcohol and unfortunately also associated with the holidays. There is also violence in very distant relations, which came very strongly to us today through the NRK News, where it is documented again and again that also the Nordics participate in the most serious sexual assaults abroad, which occur via the web. In the NRK case, it says that there are 27 cases that have been investigated. I remember when the "Dark Room" case came up. Then the police lady who had got this in place said she had to put her boxing hands on to get it inside the police. So this is a very serious situation. I can't read what I've actually written, because it's so terrible what these children are exposed to, and what Norwegian citizens pay for – assault. I assume that the council and the government are putting a real big offensive against this, because there are so terrible things that happen to these children, that they are traumatized for life and destroyed. It cannot be that one should be able to sit safely behind a keyboard and a screen in Norway and destroy the lives of other people and young children around the poorer part of the world, where children become merchandise. So this is shocking and terrible. In terms of numbers, I haven't gone into them, but it almost looks like there's more from Norway than from our neighboring country who's involved in these issues. It requires an even closer look at this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e859	One of the most fundamental tasks for us as elected representatives of the nation's national assembly is to ensure the security of people wherever they live in Norway – that people should feel that they are safe to help when they need it, whether it be violence, death, serious accidents, rand or other serious crimes. One should know that one is going to get help, and one is going to get help within a reasonable time. Of course, there will always be unsolved tasks in a society, but the problem with today's government is that you have a conscious and focused centralization that makes the police get rid of people, instead of people feeling more secure. When it was announced last year that there was a crisis in eleven of the 12 police districts, one might hope that it would enter the majority on the Stortinget, and that one took action that made one move in the opposite direction. Instead, the reports this year are that there is a crisis in all the police districts. For example, in my own police district, East Police District, earlier this year, it was discovered that an inmate in the police department says that if so, for example. would happen seriously on the Nesodden, a rare or never could expect the police to be able to come within the required response time. In Rome one had until earlier this year in the last ten years had an emergency instruction saying that there should be at least four patrols on the Roman Empire at any time. That emergency instructions have now been removed because the chief of police said that if one is to have such an emergency message, it is necessary to use the overtime budget in order to meet it. There is a very serious situation when the well-functioning janitor's office is dismantled. Then I hear the representative Frølich's touching concern for consultants and bureaucrats in the Police Directorate. With the arrangement of the Centre Party, there will still be approximately one. 90 pst. by the use of consultants in the Police Directorate, and there would still be significant growth in the Police Directorate since 2013, but we need to give a different priority to resources, so that we can strengthen local police and people's security throughout Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e870	I'm going to refer a little bit from the Smålen Newspaper, from an article on December 10, i.e. two days ago, about Inner Eastfold Prison. Prison manager Helge Valseth said it was going against a deficit of almost 14 million. kr. Both the unions in prison, the Norwegian Prisons and Free Care Associations and the Professional Association of Criminal Services are concerned. ‘The prison was low-staffed already at the start, but now we are simply afraid of dismissals,’ says Vice President Espen Hvidsten of the NFF. [[...]] The employees feel that they are struggling to drive understaff while they see that the deficit is only increasing. Trustees also respond to the fact that fewer conscript officers are now to be recruited than before and that the conscripts have been informed that they will not be used. The trustees say the pain limit has been reached. Prison leader Valseth agrees with those elected to trust that the budgetary situation, as he describes it, is ‘challenging’. He goes on to say that ‘it is planned to reduce costs equivalent to 7,5 to 8 million. This means cutting operating costs and cutting into seven positions.» Valseth is asked if it is true that the callers have been cancelled and reply: ‘Yes, 10 agreements have been concluded.’ On questions about the budgetary situation for next year, he answers: ‘The next year will also be very challenging, and it is a tight budget.’ This is the result of a wild policy. That is the result of the cheese-happiness – the so-called ABE reform. That is the result of the Minister of Justice not taking responsibility for his own priorities. We have a Minister of Justice who dismantles the Inner Eastfold prison, who will remove the district court from Inner Eastfold and remove the right to land change from Eastfold, and I have not even come to the police reform. We have a government that spends all its time dismantling and centralizing public services. Cuts, redundancies and cuts are the Minister of Justice's tune, and the Council of State is in the process of steering the entire justice sector right in the ditch – unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e895	I have received a few answers to what the government parties will do with illegal isolation on Christmas Eve – torture on Christmas Eve – so I hope the representative Frölich among others. come up and answer what he will do for these prisoners on Christmas Eve. But now about something completely different. Since the Minister of Justice is in the Chamber, I'm going to take up a completely different matter that doesn't have much to do with the budget, but still. Last week, the EOS Committee revealed a very comprehensive privacy scandal. In fact, the PST has regularly collected air passenger information from eight airlines in Norway. As many as 1 million flight passengers have been registered in the PST every year. It is not illegal for the police to collect information on air travel if the purpose is to prevent crime. What is illegal, as EOS says here, is that it is done in a regular manner and without any necessary request or based on any kind of suspicion. This is probably one of the largest privacy scandals in Norway after the war. Never have so many registered their name with the police. Of course, there is a breach of both the Constitution and our international obligations, including the EMK, but not least there is a breach of our trust in the police, because the police should not do that. The police shall not collect that kind of information and place us in a police register because we are on a vacation to London or are going to the Canary Islands or are on a work trip to Brussels. The police job is to protect us and not to monitor us. This is the Minister of Justice's constitutional area, and of course we're concerned about what he knew about it. Is it so that the PST has informed him of this earlier, and has the practice continued after the Minister of Justice has known about it? If he has the opportunity to answer it later today, it's very nice. We are also concerned that the police are not acting autonomously, in the sense that the police are handling themselves properly and raising themselves above the law. The police job is to stay within the law. They have to fight crime. It has to be done within the law. I also take it up because we have a loose proposal lying down, and according to that, the police are to inform everyone who has entered this register. Each person who has entered this register shall be informed by the police that they are actually in the register and that they have been deleted from the register.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e910	I want to remind the representative that he, as he himself said, is trying to stay within the cause of a discussion in Stortinget. This matter I think we'll have plenty of time to discuss later.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e915	Unfortunately, we do not often talk much about civil defence in these budget debates. It's a shame, because civil defence is an important response resource in Norway, and they seem more remarkable than what they get today. There were probably many who noticed the great effort the crew made during the forest fire season in 2018, but the role of civil protection is far greater than this. They are ready to protect their citizens in war situations and in major events. Civil defence also plays an important role in supporting the peacekeeping peace process, e.g. in the case of accidents and natural disasters. The situation of civil defence today is that the material tragedy is great, and the need for material was even greater after the forest fire last year. Not least, more drills are needed for the crew. We in the Center Party are concerned that we are going to have a strong civil defense in this country. Therefore, in our alternative state budget for 2020, we have proposed an increase of 30 million. NOK at the Civil Defense Office. While I'm talking about civil protection, I'll also take the net. Naudetatans and other response agents use the emergency network for safe communication. Several places in the country have experienced that the power, the mobile network and the net have fallen out of the storm. There may be several reasons why the net is shut off during such events, but often it is caused by power failure and by the fact that many of the base stations have only a few hours of back-up capacity. The Centre Party would like to strengthen the work of the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness to increase the spare power capacity of several of the network base stations. So we're proposing to give funds to secure this. In addition, we suggest that the government look at alternative solutions to today's financing model. Today it is expensive for many municipalities, but especially small municipalities come out unreasonably poor financially. In our opinion, it is also necessary to provide a plan for financing multiple grid terminals and multiple grid subscriptions for the voluntary rescue service in the public security alert in 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e928	The fact that the debate in 2009 was quite similar to the debate we are having now is not exactly a reference to the government. It says quite a lot that we have to talk about exactly what we did in 2009. If one thing the Labour Party has recognised is that the situation in the police before 2011 was not good enough at all. If one thing the Workers' Party took on, it was the Gjørv Commission's report. One of the reasons why the Labour Party asked for an agreement on the police reform was that we thought that the situation was not good enough, and that's why it's so sad that the right-wing party keeps repeating the same mistake, that we've left this equation. It is the government itself that has left its own agreement, it is the government party itself that no longer stands for the unity we enjoyed in the Stortinget in 2015. There are so many evidences and examples that we were a few about, not being followed up – well illustrated by Emilie Enger Mehl in the line change. The places of service to be strengthened are demonstrably weakened. The situation in the police districts is different. Ingunn Foss, who comes from Agder, comes from a police district where at least my experience is that there is much better than in the police district of Masud Gharakhani and me, the South-East police district, for example. The problem is that one has no ability to enable the police to be reformed. The working party's alternative budget is dead serious. It's just that we have to go beyond what we have, and then Peter Frölich gets to ask the Central Party how you think you can cancel the EEA quota in January next year. There are some, it's not possible, there's not a serious impact on an alternative budget. But the problems are there, and I'm worried that the government arrogance is taking a little off. We don't want to blackmail the situation, but the government party shouldn't boast, but assume that one hasn't done a good enough job, and hasn't done the reform like one should. When it comes to criminal services, we're honest that what we're asking here today is not enough money, but they in the government party have to be a couple of different about how they're going to attack us. Solveig Horne thinks there shouldn't be a competition for promises, Peter Frølich doesn't take the alternative budget from the opposition seriously anyway, while Ingunn Foss and Frida Melvær are asking for more promises. No matter how we had done it, ladies and gentlemen, we had not been boasted by the government party. For my part, I used my first post to give the government praise where I think it's home. There are several areas where this government has delivered good things. Then I also hope that the government party can start by taking on the criticism that is well intended, because we will do the best for the sector all together.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e941	The investigation promise is part of the police reform, which is both a structural reform and a quality reform. The purpose of the investigation is to increase the quality of criminal proceedings, which will increase the legal certainty of citizens. There is broad consensus on the importance of facilitating knowledge-based research, good management, systematic learning and the establishment of forms of work that ensure accountability and good control procedures. This budget facilitates the strengthening of police investigation capacity. In order to give police districts greater space for action in 2020, it is proposed to allocate 83 million. kr for this purpose. Registered crime has gone down for several years. At the same time, the police are experiencing an increase in the most serious and resource-intensive cases. Today, the police use over 30 pst. of the total exploration capacity of the most serious cases, which is less than 3 pst. of the total. In recent years, the police have solved two of Norway’s biggest assault cases — the ‘Sandra’ operation with 468 insulted children, and the ‘Dark Room’ operation, which revealed 51 men who have abused at least 300 children — horrifying and cruel revelations that require considerable resources in several police districts. With increased appropriations, we can help solve more issues, reduce the balances, increase the quality of research and prosecution, and contribute to more coherent problem solving. Capacity and competence can also be better ensured in police districts. There are no quick and simple solutions to realize an investigation promise, but we are on the right track. The fact that management prioritises the area over time is also an important prerequisite. However, despite the challenges faced by the police in criminal proceedings, criminal cases are now being investigated better and not least more regularly. The quality of the investigation is a high priority in the police, and the investigation promise is designed to achieve a higher percentage of information, a reduction in the processing time and a reduction in the number of stays. The investigation promise works for good quality and effective procedures, which can also make it more attractive to work as an investigator and prosecutor in the police. I am pleased that this area is prioritised and pleased that we now have a police force working systematically in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e956	In the Central Party's bet in the justice sector for next year, it ranges from the small sums to the large ones. I want to list some of the small sums first, because these are also worth raising. This is part of the commitment to volunteering. There's going to be a 1 million bet. I'm going to add up here and add up to 5 million. kr extra that often has much greater effect than if the same amounts are added to the operation of public budgets. We in the Center Party value the great effort of voluntary organizations in both crime prevention and rescue services. Volunteers set up both to prevent people from getting on the slope, and to help people who have ended up on the slope, to take care of their lives. For all of us, regardless of the scrolls, it's an invaluable help that volunteers in the rescue service around the country are ready to contribute when the accident is over. There is no doubt that it costs to do such an important activity. We would have liked to have seen a lot more to volunteer organizations, both for those who are involved in crime prevention and for those in the rescue services, but the 15 million. kr we focus extra on this objective in our alternative budget, is a sign of strong recognition from our side for the job they do. I can list some of the larger sums that we in the Center Party propose to allow next year. One example is 32 million. kr to add several judges to both the General Courts and the Land Change Courts, and not at least 25 million. to digitise proceedings also in the small and medium-sized courts. These aren't just sums from our side, it's a powerful political signal from us that we want to keep a decentralised court structure. The centre party clearly shows that we want to modernise and digitize our work at the smaller courts to enable them to meet in the future in the same way that the larger courts are given the chance. And we give funds that -- if we had got multiples for our alternative budget -- would have made the resource situation of a good many courts a little easier. The police are the one that we give the most to in the field of justice – a bet of over 0.5 billion. kr. My party colleague, Enger Mehl, has said a lot about this, but I want to bring forward our commitment to border control, where the Central Party is giving both 100 million. kr on the financial budget to strengthen the customs debt with border control and 50 million. on the Justice Budget in order to strengthen the police's work on border control in cooperation with the customs office. The Central Party wishes to improve national border control within the framework of Schengen cooperation as long as there are no pluralities on the Stortinget to withdraw from Schengen. It is about having more tools to stop mobile criminals, and then there is a need for more resources and more political awareness of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e975	I would also like to mention some of them, perhaps a little less, of the justice budget, which often drowns in the debates on the big contexts and the sums. Not least, I want to mention the commitment to animal welfare crime, that is, the effort to combat this. I am pleased that an animal police unit is now being set up in Troms, which means that the animal police that was established in 2013 now have five units around Norway. This is a matter that means too many, and I'm glad you get this extra unit in Troms. In addition, I would like to mention $30 million. for electronic interaction between the actors in the criminal proceedings chain. Although this may be among the less interesting to pick up for the media, it is incredibly important for the information sharing between the agencies, especially the courts, the police and the criminal services, and an important building block to get a more effective criminal case chain. Preparedness in Norway is not just about police reform, and it is not just about the number of policemen, although it is important. I want to bring out things that aren't necessarily just about more money to the police, but also about different ways of organizing things. Then I want to bring forward new homes that have been given to the police in recent years, so that they can better intervene and avert dangerous situations. We have a debate on armaments later today, but the institutions that have been set up and the increased possibility that the police have been given to armaments in recent years are incredibly important in order to ensure the security of the population in the light of the recent changes in the threat picture. I also want to mention the reconciliation cows. The dramatic decline in the settlement queues is an effect on overall preparedness in Norway and the overall police and judicial situation. Last but not least, three new police helicopters are incredibly important capacity and capacity for the police to get to places that are not as easy to reach as the Oslo Centre. This is the capacity we would like to have put in place many years earlier, but as the police now get, and which makes the Norwegian police better prepared than has been the case in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e991	I would first like to say that it was very good that the representative Petter Eide made it clear that we should not be fooled by his blue suit. I began to wonder for a while whether he had woken up and been convinced of the dynamic effect of tax relief, but there was no need to worry. The representative Petter Eide challenged us with a question of whether we supported torture on Christmas Eve. I can straighten my back. Today I would stand up and vote in favour of a budget with pride, but I should probably really be sitting and pressing the green button. But I'll do it with pride. This is a justice budget that actually addresses some of the issues of isolation. No one in the Committee on Legal Affairs can sit in front of the Ombudsman and feel no concern about developments. That is precisely why it is so good that we have already taken action. Of course, building masses are mentioned, and also the isolation team. I would particularly like to draw up the representative Frida Melvær, who has been very concerned that we had to set up such a team, which is now to be set up in Bergen. It's an initiative on the part of the committee, which I think will get the whole hall's approval and support, and the team will work dedicated to combating isolation issues. A recurring theme is the situation in the courts. This is a situation which, in the past in the autumn, triggered a debate that is a bit typical of Norwegian: Is there a crisis in the Norwegian courts or not? Of course, the Labour Party will go to the top and say that there is a crisis in Norwegian courts. Now we get the fasit, because we have to assume that the Workers' Party is presenting an alternative budget that, if we're going to take it seriously, must be the difference between what's crisis and what's control. And control in the judicial sector is therefore a budget that is – hold on – 8 800 000 kroner above our own draft budget. So the difference between crisis and control is $8,800,000. I think there's something quite different that separates crisis from control in the courts. It is the question of whether the parties in this Chamber are willing to listen to the wishes of the courts about structural changes. Sven Marius Urke has said it very well in News 18, where he said that in the election between some budget heads and structural changes he chooses structural changes. We could make 10, 20, 30, 40, 50 or 60 million. kr extra, but there are structural changes they want. Then I hope the hall in the future is willing to discuss it properly.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1004	That statement by the director of the court administration, Sven Marius Urke, to which Peter Frölich now referred, actually illustrates the very good situation around the court structure. So, for years, the court administration has warned that they have too little resources, they are struggling with the ABE cuts – they are extremely pressured. And then Urke sits in a debate where he tries to argue to lay down many small courts. Then it's suddenly no longer a problem that they have too little money, then everything is going to solve just they get structural changes. The argument is reversed in order to fit in with the story that today's court structure is outdated and the only solution to the problems in the courts is to have a new structure. The Court’s report was presented in October. The centre party was critical already when the Commission was put down, and it's not because we can predict or have some supernatural abilities that enable us to understand what they were going to put forward. That's because we looked at the mandate and the composition of the Commission. We saw that there was a mandate for centralisation, and we saw that there was a composition that was completely lacking representation from District Norway and from courts that were in danger of being closed. On that basis, we criticized the Commission for fearing that it would make a proposal for massive centralisation – and that is exactly what happened. The central party believes that it is important to take care of the court structure of today. It's a completely misleading picture when the representative Frølich here says that the courts have a unanimous desire for structural change. That's not true. The court administration has a unisoned desire for structural changes. In many cases, the administration of the courts does not represent the views of the diversity of courts in Norway. It's a small bunch. The Administrative Board of the Court of Justice has many powers to make changes to the Court of Justice-Norway and to govern the Court of Justice-Norway. There's a pretty small crowd of a few people who have a terrible amount of power and are far from the reality of them out in the small courts. They're in Oslo, making big decisions that people locally don't always agree with. Here's an important discussion to take forward. I've also heard Sven Marius Urke say that court structure is a completely unnecessary debate, and that there are many other things that are much more important to discuss when it comes to the courts. I agree that there are many important issues of discussion, but it is striking that it is the administration of the Court itself that raises the structural debate repeatedly if it is so little important for the activities of the courts.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1015	The representative of Maria Aasen-Svensrud has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1020	Recently, the film "Free Prisoners" appeared on the NRK. I saw the premiere with inmates and employees at Baskøl prison. Although this documentary may appear to be a horror film for the Council of State, I still recommend that he look at it. And the horror scenario is, if I interpret the Council of States correctly and if the Progress Party gets what they want, that for example. Killers shall zone twelve years in Ullersmo prison and then straight out on the street. This is to transfer the risk from prisons to our neighborhoods. I hope the Council of State will come up and take the floor and tell you if he's now going to change the Penal Code to achieve what he just told in his post.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1025	In my previous post, I did not try to praise some of the world's things, but the job of the opposition is to criticize, and the job of the position is to boast of a budget that is being presented. If the representative Vågslid had heard after my post, she would have heard that I was taking seriously the concerns that are out there related to the implementation of the reform. And let there be no doubt – that is what I said last time: this is something that the government parties are following closely. I believe, however, that with the proposals contained in the budget, we are well equipped, and I am sure that the Minister of Justice also has this in the forehead when he is working with the Justice Budget. What also emerges is that in the majority opinion, they say that the operating budget ‘has become strongly downgraded over several years with the right-hand government’. Then I believe that, in order to be able to obtain facts, we in the government parties must repeat it to show that the budget for the justice sector is, in fact, a strengthening. Then I'm very happy that more people have been involved in what goes on in violence and abuse in close relationships and violence and abuse of children. There are many points in the Granavolden platform that government parties are impatient to implement. I also want to bring forward what the Prime Minister and several government councils did on 1 October by launching the 'Tausheit takes life', telephone line 116 006, which will help many people by now getting good advice and answers to questions if you yourself are subjected to violence and abuse, and even if you have family or friends like a suspect are subjected to violence and abuse. Now you can call this help phone. It's an important grip, especially in the time we're going into now. So we also know that the crisis centers go into maybe one of the busiest times of the year. It's everyday heroes working at these crisis centers. It is also a municipal task, and it is important that local politicians in their budget debates lift up the crisis centre offer. And then I look forward to the government evaluating the transfer of responsibility for crisis centres to municipalities and assessing measures to ensure a good crisis centre offer, because we need good crisis centres for both women and men – and also children, because we know that there are many children living in crisis centres – to get the help they need. It is also stated in the Granavolden platform that the government is to present a separate strategy against Internet-related child abuse, which is important for us to follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1042	There are some things that are more important than others. There is a need to strengthen Norwegian criminal justice. The report from the Civil Ombudsman makes a big impression. They have sent a written notice to the Norwegian authorities about isolation and the lack of human contact in Norwegian prisons. It's not often the Civilbodsman goes to that step, but they have done so in this case. It shows that for many years Norwegian authorities have received international criticism for the use of isolation in prison. The last time in 2018, the United Nations Torture Committee expressed strong concerns about the extent of long-term isolation and that the conditions for use of isolation were not sufficiently clear in Norway. They found that the extent of isolation was extensive. In particular, the isolation that occurs without being indebted to their actions, and in some cases retained isolation over a very long time and in contravention of human rights standards. This is not Norwegian criminal justice. The Civilo Ombudsman’s message demonstrates that with major mental health challenges, it is isolated under critical conditions for weeks, months and in some cases for several years. It is pointed out that the authorities’ control of the use of insulation has considerable weaknesses. The Boards of Supervisors do not have a clear mandate, resources or competence to ensure systematic supervision in order to preserve the rights and legal certainty of their deployments. Bergen's Official Journal has done this and mapped out children in their teens who may have tried to kill themselves and who are being treated by being put on smooth cell. There's no room at home. It's very uplifting. Children and mentally ill should not be isolated. Incarceration in prisons has the same health care requirements as those of its inhabitants. It's good and good with a strengthened community department, and the isolation team in Bergen prison gets 2 million. kr to it, but we are not in the vicinity of apprehending it as the reasons for this. One also needs a special focus on mental health protection, where one has to go into prison and provide it with health care. That's one of the reasons why the Central Party has earmarked 20 million in its budget. D to increase mental health protection in Norwegian prisons. It is high time that concrete measures were put in place to provide good health care to those who need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1051	First, to the representative of the Workers' Party who wondered if we should change the Penal Code. I think the representative must have had a pretty creative interpretation of what I was really saying. I said that I would not make changes to the Penal Code, but that there is a need for change in the type of prison, which means that fewer low-security prisons and more high-security prisons will be provided. There have never been such large amounts of appropriations for the justice sector. There has never been so much money that has gone to the police – an increase of 4.4 billion. kr during this period of government. There has never been so much money to the courts or prisons either. But then there is this criticism of the ABE reform. Then we have to try to remember why we have an ABE reform. That's because the Norwegian economy is changing, because the incomes are shrinking, and we have to make changes in our society to adapt to the new reality. This is a reality that Norwegian business has already taken over. They've made those adjustments. When I was in business myself, I agreed to cut 10 pst. of the expenditure of one year, because we were going to be competitive further. This is the reality of Norwegian business, while we have a big debate that we have to cut 0.5 pst. of the budgets. What the Workers' Party wants is that instead of investing in improving the efficiency of operations, we should just take this bill and send it elegantly to taxpayers, who have already made it more efficient in their own sector. That's not moral right. The centre party may have a slightly excessive belief in the ABE reform, because instead of having to reform red tape and efficiency, they only wrote ‘reduce bureaucracy’. Then they're going to cut another 50 million. kroner on the police, another 23.9 million. kr in prison and a further 14.3 million. to the courts in their alternative budget. I believe in red tape, but I don't have as much faith as the Center Party has. So to a question from the representative Eide about EOS. We'll probably have an opportunity to get back to that, I can't take all of that right now. But when it comes to solving the proposal, the PST has informed us that it is not possible to implement it, to inform everyone, because the information has been deleted. You're also required to do that. Not all information is allowed to be kept by the police for a longer period of time.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1064	The representative Petter Eide had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1069	Instead, I challenged that the isolation practices that this government will continue to budget for will lead to more illegal isolation and inhumane treatment now in Christmas. I asked the representatives of the government parties to come to the pulpit and defend why they put up such a practice in the budget. The answer I get is only boast, completely uncritical boast from the representatives of Himanshu Gulati, Frida Melvær, etc., but no one is addressing that challenge properly. The Minister of Justice is talking about building, etc. I spoke to a prison director yesterday, and he said that in general they have too few people. The government adds up to fewer people, and with fewer people it actually becomes more isolation. The staff in prisons are very critical in view of Christmas Eve, when it will also be holiday settlement. There will be a celebration of isolation and torture in Norwegian prisons.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1076	‘The greatest police bluff in history’ ‘Justice Minister Knut Storberget concluded in 2008 that we should have the largest police operation in Norway. Until 2020, the police were to be upgraded." ‘Everything would get better. The police were to be given new methods, new equipment, financial resources, and new police officers were to be trained." "Audience is being tricked, and the police are going to fail, we won't be able to do the job that society wants us to do." "I've been a trustee in the police for over 20 years. It has never been as bad as it is today. Unfortunately, it is the reality of police Norway." This was said by the leader of the Police Joint Association to Dagbladet in 2011. Deceptive Minister of Justice answered, inter alia: that police workers’ organisations cannot ‘use any opportunity to provide misery descriptions of the situation in the Norwegian police’. Let's take a Christmas holiday with the words from Storberget: Let's not take advantage of every opportunity to come with misery descriptions either by the Norwegian police or the situation in Norway otherwise. I think we're doing a lot of good. I think we're doing a lot right. We're on the right track. We can recognize that these are challenges. It will be, and the need for us politicians to clear up challenges will also be there in the future, because society is changing, and crime is changing. There are new challenges to address constantly. In 2011, the Police Joint Alliance asked for 2.3 billion. kr to reach the target of two per thousand. This government has raised 3.3 real billion. kr. I stand by the fact that the police reform is the most important step we have taken to equip the police for a new and much more demanding crime scene, both today and in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1099	I start by mentioning something that was said earlier in the debate here today. The representative Raja from the Left said the police broke Young Guns. I think it's important that we have a different relationship to the work with these people. Although individuals are being punished, this does not mean that the environment is broken. We have to have a long-term perspective on working with the gangs. For this reason, the majority of the committee in the vote emphasises that action against gangs must not be reversed and down, depending on whether or not someone is being judged or taken, because the environment is much wider than what is believed to have been taken by people who have shot or committed acts. Often the central backers are not involved in those matters. We must not settle down. I've been following some cases that have gone the last year against some of the two–three–four replicas that have been taken in Oslo. Unfortunately, in the matters I have followed, the short sentences are given, because the threat picture is so great that no one, or very few, will testify against them. We can't believe that the re-engagement can be stepped down, or that they're broken because individuals are taken. They learn how to work, and they develop their methods, so that they can be backers who don't take things for granted in the future. Now there's a growth in juvenile delinquency groups. We see serious incidents increasingly in Oslo, even in schools, as we heard from Mortensrud, where teachers wrote posts yesterday. The same developments are taking place in many other police districts, too, in many other cities. We have to be aware that the people behind are the rest of the world. They have an infrastructure that supplies them with weapons, drugs, etc. and order that these youth groups carry out violence, such as: to enforce territories. The youth groups often have these central gangs, the backers, as role models. They know how much money they have, and they know what status they have in criminal environments. That is why I think we need to do more than just continue the bet, as the government parties say about the budget we are dealing with today. I would like to hear from the Council of State on the proposals for the rules of withdrawal, which I have the impression that we in the Committee have agreed on – at least the parties of government have been positive – and I turn to the Council of State at the back of the Chamber: if, for example, if. a youth is included with DKK 50000, which is obviously a result of crime, it has to be returned. Better rules are needed for withdrawal, bans are needed on participation in or recruitment for criminal gangs, new rules are needed for bans on residence, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1113	As far as I have managed to follow the debate, the issue of labour-related crime has not been particularly debated here today. I think it is important that we focus on it, because the development of Norwegian employment is not good. Last week, TV 2 came with a brand new series of papers: «Norway behind the façade». There we saw foreign workers stacked in a wreckage in Oslo. They paid more than NOK 5000 a month to live there, and living conditions were far from what we should accept in Norway. Backmen collected millions of dollars in income every month on this. It helped little that the Municipality of Oslo paid NOK 100 000 in fines to operate illegally when the problem was not resolved. We saw people who were housed in premises regulated for the storage of coal, and it says that a lot has been undone in this area. A rather important and thought-provoking report came not long ago. An international organisation says that over 9 000 people living in Norway can be described as victims of trafficking in human beings. There's something we need to bet a lot more on getting settled in. It's ruining the world of work, and it's ruining not least for the people involved. Therefore, the work crisis centre scheme has been good. It was those TV 2 were out when they looked at how people both lived and lived here in Norway. Many new a-krim centres have come into place thanks to vigorous efforts in the Stortinget, but two areas in Norway do not have an a-krim centre: one is the Inland, and the other is Troms and Finnmark. Labour crime is also taking place in those areas, so the Workers' Party has called for a new work crisis centre to be set up in this budget. We want to add it to Gjøvik, so the Inland is covered. Then a new supervision needs to be put in place further north. It doesn't just help to have an a-krim centre and good supervision. We also need a police officer who can follow up. Therefore, increased allocations to Ecocrime are incredibly important so that we can prosecute those who are responsible for the crime of working life. It's totally unacceptable. Employers who use these methods should be severely penalised. That is why there is a need for an even stronger commitment to Ecokrim, and it is in the budget of the Labour Party. Unfortunately, it just becomes an alternative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1132	Now I think it's the fourth or fifth budget debate I'm taking part in the Storting in the fall where, in the absence of a good argument for its own policy, the position chooses to spend time on the cut-off of the Centre Party in EEA funds – and we still haven't come to the budget debate of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. I understand that sometimes it may be difficult to be quite precise when one is going to represent the position of other parties on the platform, but a slightly higher level of precision than what the government parties have – and on which the Workers' Party chooses to move – as regards the presentation of the Central Party's budget, could be expected. So for next year, the centre party proposes a budget of more than 2.2 billion EUA. kr. There is more than twice as much as one could spend on EEA funds last year. So it's absolutely right that it's less than the gigantic sum of 4.5 billion. kr as proposed by the government for next year. I think that if one goes on such a level, we'll see a lot of very unwise projects for which that money is spent, as we have experience from before, with both the bird box project and the people who stand in Viking equipment and celebrating the day of the game. So to the Council of State, which is concerned about the proposed cut of the Centre Party in bureaucracy and consulting. I have noticed the new philosophy of the Progress Party: where one former was concerned with cutting red tape, one is now busy defending bureaucracy. The government's own figures show that only in a few years has the number of employees in the department and the directorate increased by over 2000. One of the places where the growth has been greatest is in the Police Directorate. In view of the Progress Party, which was elected in 2013 to bring down the Police Directorate, the number of employees has almost doubled during the period they have been with the Minister of Justice. For consulting: for the first half of this year alone, the figures showed that the government’s consultancy was over 4.4 billion. kr. The Council of State suggests that there is often a need for an efficiency requirement of 10 pst in private activities. – yes, our proposal for a cut in consulting in the Police Directorate is 10 p.m. of it as a used last year. It should be fully possible to do so, so that we can give priority to the local, present police. So finally, one thing that has received little attention here today: On Monday, the police have notified a sign against the very unwise cuts in police training at the Police College. It should definitely be noted by the majority. One should ensure that we maintain the good police training we have in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1145	The representative Ingunn Foss has spoken the word twice before and gets the word to a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1150	The reason why I take the floor again is that I will comment on the last posts of the representative of Gharahkhanis and the representative of Vågslid. Both referred to the South-East police district, and the representative of Gharakhani said that legal security and security were threatened. Those are rather harsh words, and it is very bad with the picture I got when the committee was visiting the South-East police district earlier this year. It was shown that they had good results in several areas — in the field of sexual assault on children and, in particular, the results of the establishment of the a-crime centre. The Chief of Police and the League of Police stated that the reform was absolutely necessary, but they had challenges to merge four districts, and they needed more time. With regard to the settlement of cases, this is a misleading concept in terms of actual circumstances. That doesn't mean that serious crime is committed. Provision due to capacity problems has been used for several decades, and it has been highlighted in many investigations. A quick Google search shows that Greenland Police Station dropped 200 cases in the month of 2010.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1157	I have to comment on the centralization claims of the Central Party for this budget. This government strengthens the preparedness of the districts. We're setting up the seventh rescue base. This is almost contrary to the will of the Central Party and the Labour Party. During their period of government, they presented the base structure of the day on six rescue bases. So we've proposed a seventh rescue base, which neither the Workers' Party nor the Center Party has had in some of their alternative budgets. I'm also registering a rematch for Bardufoss. This is also not an employment measure, which is a historic boost to social security in North Norway. We also establish HF coverage in the north now, all the way up to the North Pole. I would like to remind you that this is not exactly central. We have also strengthened the volunteers in the rescue services in the districts. We strengthen the VAT compensation scheme by 77 million. kr – up to a historical level again, at 1,685 billion. kr. We strengthen HRS in Bodø, and we also launched a total defence programme in 2016 that strengthens preparedness and security across the country. This government is committed to the security of the entire population, throughout the country. We also look forward, and therefore we look at the civil defence of the future, because the challenges Norway has to solve must not be based on a situational understanding that is no longer applicable. We'll look forward. Yesterday's threats and safeguards for the civilian population are not the same as for tomorrow's threat situation. That situation is preparing for this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1166	The representative Jan Bøhler has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1171	As the Council of State was busy instead, I would like to ask questions about the follow-up to measures against criminal gangs and juvenile delinquency, where the government has at least announced that they have the same intention as us. My question is, when are these measures coming? There are rules on the withdrawal of funds from crime. Governments have been in Ireland in the autumn and have looked at some good rules they have there. It concerns the status of proposals for a ban on participation in, and recruitment to, criminal gangs. It concerns the status of proposals for better rules on residence bans, possibly by foot, in order to keep operators away from the areas in which they operate. And it's about the status of confidentiality rules between the agencies, so that you can better know, for example. the number of students with criminal scrolls collected in one school and may have measures to avoid accumulation. I would also like to ask, as far as the target of two policemen per thousand is concerned, whether it is the opinion of the Council of State that there should be a final goal in Norway when we see developments, among other things. in the field of juvenile delinquency.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1178	I would also like to say a little bit about recriminalism, and I am absolutely sure that the Council of State will consider what Jan Bøhler also mentioned. It's for evaluation in the department, and I hope we can also get some results. Recurrent crime and juvenile delinquency – I wonder if it is? I've been trying for a long time to find out about the land background of the 182 repeaters in these gangs. It has been shown that you need the necessary legal support to be informed and registered. The reason why this is interesting is that if, for example: 90 pst. Of the 182 repetitions, there is a different country background in their family from Norwegian, as we do not have a youth problem. Then we have an integration problem and an integration challenge. If the 182 are a cross-section of the youth population, yes, we have a youth problem, but if there is a large proportion with immigrant background, we have an integration problem. That is why we also need to know the land background of the toughest gangs and repeat criminals, so that we can put prevention measures into families with such rural backgrounds and help families, children and young people as early as possible, because we know that they may come into an environment that develops crime. That is why we need to identify the background of criminals, so that we can put preventive measures in place. It is the most important thing to prevent children born in this country from getting into what is called old-time bad company. But then we have to know about it. That is why I am pleased that the Council of State is working on this issue in order to establish a system so that we can get the necessary knowledge. In all other areas, we agree that when we're trying to solve challenges, knowledge is very important. If it turns out that the rural background of the most criminal is certain countries, let’s say outside Europe, it is in families with such a rural background that we have to put in the relief measures as early as possible to prevent children born in this country from getting into crime – just as we have to put in the forces early to ensure that all children born can be properly Norwegian before they start school, by helping them in the age of 3, 4 and 5 years, and not waiting for them to come to school and almost cannot have a single word Norwegian, which unfortunately is the case for too many children born, among other things. in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1187	I think there is little doubt that there are many integration challenges related to the problem of thread in Oslo. Previous studies have pointed that out. So here too, looking at family immigration rules and family establishment rules can be relevant measures to mitigate the crime challenges. The representative of Boehler addressed several issues, and in his last post, the one-minute post, he addressed other issues than those he raised in the three-minute post. The issues he raised in the one-minute post, I answered fourteen days ago. He also asked about civil withdrawal and withdrawal of values. This is something that we've already set up a law board on. They work on it and come up with their recommendation during the spring. When it comes to civil withdrawal, there's a rather new method in Norwegian legal tradition, but I think it's important to take a closer look at it. I am therefore going to investigate it and make a proposal for the Stortinget. There's one thing he hasn't asked me before, but that I've responded to in this room: Is the goal of two policemen per thousand residents stuck regardless of crime? The answer to that is no. What I've said is that we're going to keep the goal of two per thousand ahead as a minimum goal. At least it's not going to go under it. It'll be time to move up from that goal, because we have to look at the evolution of crime. But we must not commit ourselves to too many such objectives, because there may be other competences that are also important in the fight against crime. We've had some criticism in the past that there's too much target management by the police, and that's the target of two per thousand you're looking for, which makes police officers do civilian tasks. This is something we have to follow closely. Nor can I rule out that the hills of Police College will grow again in the next few years if, for example, it does. becomes an infective effect of the violent trend we see in Sweden. As far as the Central Party is concerned, they have said that they want the same quality as the reform, but they want the same structure as before the reform. This means that the Central Party has underfunded the Norwegian police in the last three to four years by 16 billion. kr. They have been a little more sober in this year's alternative state budget and said that it's okay that 106 Länsmannskontoret be added. So twenty pieces are the difference between a good cop and a bad cop. As I said, I don't think we can count the number of loner offices and say it's crucial. I think it's the quality that's crucial, and we wouldn't have gotten it without a new police reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1200	The representative, Lene Wagslid, had the word twice before and got the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1206	There's a lot of people who talk about the Workers' Party today, and we're happy that we're able to create commitment around what we're busy about. I just want to repeat that the Labour Party's proposal when it comes to both justice and criminal justice is not enough. I think there's a need for a step-up plan over several years to clean up after the weak operating budgets, especially the two sectors have had. The Labour Party is going against the cut-off at the Police College in Oslo. I thought it was strange that no more government parties have commented on it. There's going to be a lot of commitment over the Storing on Monday. I'm going to attend there myself, and I'm going to have an appeal. The Labour Party also believes that we should have a crew report in the police – and not least this report that never comes – before a major change is made, such as that. at the Police College. Jøran Kallmyr says he doesn't want a situation like that in Sweden – no, not us either, and that's why we shouldn't do what we're now adding when it comes to the Oslo Police College.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1217	The representative Sigbjørn Gülsvik has spoken the word twice before and gets the word to a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1222	I notice that the government parties, and now also the Council of State, boast of the increase in the number of police employees. But the latest figures from the Police Directorate show that from June to September there were 238 fewer policemen. What the police community is responding to next year's government budget is that what's in there is not enough funding to achieve the goals you say you have. Then the reality doesn't look like the rhetoric in the hall here. So one thing about the Central Party's alternative state budget: the Council of State indicated that there we are proposing to re-establish county offices. No, that's not right. It's not in our alternative state budget. There's going to be a further process how we're going to set up the police in the future. What's in our alternative budget, on the other hand, is over 0.5 billion. kr to strengthen police and prosecution authorities, so that we can strengthen local police around Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1229	No more people have asked for the word on the matter. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1245	At the request of the Justice Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes per party group and 5 minutes per government member. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to five rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to 3 minutes on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1252	Firstly, I would like to thank the Committee for its good work on the matter and for the proposal itself. It is very pleasant and, of course, good policy when the right-wing government chooses to promote one of the previous proposals of the Workers' Party. The best thing, I suppose, would have been if the government parties had agreed to adopt this proposal when it was promoted some years ago, instead of normally promoting it again some years later. Nevertheless, an extension of the jurisdictional framework for EK, electronic control, is a good proposal. This will help more people to zone near their homes and their everyday lives. This leads to better rehabilitation in the implementation of penalties for many, while at the same time maintaining the role of detention against convicted offenders. However, from the Workers' Party, I would like to assume that it is essential that criminal services recommend that punishment be carried out at EK, and in order to achieve the goal of rehabilitation, home soning with a link cannot be a rest cushion. On the contrary, this requires that if more than one zone of EK is to be used, free care must be strengthened in order to be able to follow up the individual. There is a need to ensure adequate resources for police and local authorities in order to ensure the proper functioning of criminal enforcement in society. The Labour Party would also like to add that government parties do not now have to consider this change as a result of a massive increase in the number of criminal executions by electronic means. It would be bad for criminal justice if the government now falls for the temptation to, for example, to reduce more prisons as a result of the belief that very many will be transferred to criminal execution by electronic control. With this I therefore thank the Committee for a good work on the matter. From the Workers' Party, we will follow closely the development of criminal enforcement, and we expect, of course, that the government will follow up this project in close cooperation with the criminal services, the care and their employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1265	It's very gratifying that this is a matter that a joint committee has put itself behind. Many today have the opportunity to carry out punishments outside prison. In 2018, for the first time, more work was done at the voluntary care offices than in prison, and the main explanation for this is increased use of housing with electronic control. Penalty enforcement with footlinks, i.e. electronic control, is a criminal offence in society that allows the convicted to be able to carry out their social and economic obligations during the execution of the criminal offence. During soning, the sentenced person is given the opportunity to work, go to school, study or have other forms of employment. When the person concerned does not carry out such activities, he or she shall be at home. An evaluation carried out by Vista Analysis in 2015 concluded that EK is a good measure of value for the sentence, relatives and society as a whole, and provides a lower relapse to new crime and large socio-economic gains compared to prison. I'm glad we're now changing the law, so that more people can get the opportunity to punish in society. However, it is important to point out that although it is an objective that more people are to carry out the punishments in society, it should always be a requirement that the security of society is guaranteed at all times. The current use of RF-based technology in the implementation of electronic control has clear limits. This technology only shows if the dome is located within a given area, and does not tell anything about the geographic position of the subject whether he or she is outside this area. In the event of a breach of the terms of the detention centre or an offence of the execution of a criminal offence, the criminal authorities have not been able to see where the conviction is located. The proposals contained in the Proposition on the introduction of tracking and tracing technologies and other tell-tales are therefore important to ensure that the dome executes the soning under the conditions laid down. In the Right Party and the Progress Party, we are pleased that we are now receiving an extension of criminal enforcement with electronic control, and we are pleased that criminal services are provided with instruments that make follow-up and control of the sentence simpler and safer. The lot supports with this in full the content of the proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1278	Electronic footlink or fence with electronic control, abbreviated as EK, is an alternative to criminal execution in prison. Today, it may be important to consider EK for those who have a four-month sentence. This is called a complete implementation. In addition, a partial implementation with EK may be considered for those who have up to four months left by a longer judgment. The government is now proposing to increase this limit to six months for both full and partial implementation. This fully supports the Center Party. The experience of Norway opening for foot-link sonning has been largely positive. There are few jurisdictions that break the terms of this form of reconciliation once they have been granted it. Criminal services have been given an additional tool when they are to be re-extended to society. Not least, this type of punishment makes it possible for any child to have a close relationship with the parent while the soning is going on. There has been broad support among hearing authorities to extend the use of electronic footlinks to sentences of six months. The center party has decided that we want an extension like this, and we will vote in favour of it today. It is important to stress that it is not anyone who qualifies for EC criminal enforcement. The government proposal does not change this. There are strict conditions which must be met in order for the EC to be granted, and the jurisdiction must comply with a strict regime in order not to break the terms of acquittal. Such strict conditions shall remain, even if it will be possible after the decision of the Storting to grant EK to those who have a six-month sentence or to those who have a six-month remaining judgment. In other words, the changes will increase the number of people who can zone by foot, but there will still be strict demands on those who are involved. Even though EK as a proponent may be cheaper than incarceration in prison, I would like to stress that it must not be economic that causes this form of compensation to be chosen. The use of EK must be appropriate in each case to promote the rehabilitation of the sentence. In some cases, e.g. low-security prison settlement is the right solution, and then the economy will not be decisive in choosing a form of reconciliation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1291	It's very gratifying that we can have this kind of thing that we can all actually agree on. Although we agree, I should still just make some very small comments on this. We agree, of course, that the use of electronic control and home soning is good, and it is very nice that the government has come up with better thoughts. I just refer to what a former Minister of Justice said a few years ago – this is to the Council of State Kallyr: She – it was the Council of State Listhaug, just about a time before she became the Council of State – says to ‘pain in prison’. It was her attitude to criminal execution and imprisonment. I am pleased that the government has come up with completely different ideas, and that the use of home soning and electronic control will be extended. I think that's good for society and definitely for rehabilitation. We're setting strict conditions for this now, but I think the technological solutions of the future will make us change the terms, so that more prisoners can be moved into this kind of settlement in the future as well. Many might wonder if it's punishment to be able to zone at home with a foot link. It will definitely be, because the purpose of the punishment is, of course, the deprivation of liberty and the fact that society has control of you, and it is definitely like that even if you're at home. SV has always thought that the better atonement you have, the better it is. So whether it's hotel standard or home standard, it's great for accolades. It contributes to better rehabilitation, as many have said, it frees places of refuge, it's even cheaper, and it definitely makes the transition to a life of freedom better. So a little bit back to what we were talking about instead: isolation issues. This is a great tool to prevent illegal isolation and torture, which we took up instead, because it doesn't happen if you're at home. It is absolutely impossible to imagine that we can apply that kind of legal provision then. There is no risk of inhuman treatment when people son at home. The more people at home, the less of that problem, the less of it. Then I just want to say one more thing. There are some slightly intersecting signals that the government is giving in this proposal. For here you wholeheartedly support about, with wise and fine reasons, the need for more people to zone on low security, and then at home with footlinks. It's very nice. At the same time, we see that the same government with the other hand is laying down several prisons with low security and transferring the prisoners to high-security prisons. On the one hand, the need to increase security, in other words at home and under electronic control, is argued for, but on the other hand, low-security prisons are being put down and prisoners are being transferred to high-security prisons. I just want to say this is a little bit inconsistent, and I'm having a little bit of trouble understanding the whole thing. I'm very fond of the first part of it, but I'm very critical of the second part of it. But all in all, there is a positive proposal presented here, which we applaud wholeheartedly.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1308	The president just wants to remind you that most accidents happen in the world!
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1313	Penalties with electronic control have now been practised in Norway for 11 years and experience with this form of implementation is largely positive. The evaluation has shown that EK takes into account the convictions, relatives and society to a greater extent than using prisons for this category of convictions. Judgments which execute penalties with electronic control may retain their employment and housing, may discharge dependants and care obligations and may avoid burdening family, friends and welfare systems. Those implementing the judgment in its entirety with electronic control, EK, do not have the negative consequences of a prison stay such as: negative impact of other convictions, recruitment to criminal environments and the risk of isolation. The percentage of offences committed by EK is low, and the probability of relapses into crime for convictions that have executed the sentence with EK is lower than for convictions that have carried out the sentence in prison. I am therefore pleased that the Judicial Committee endorses the government's proposal to extend the implementation period of this method of criminal enforcement to six months. Furthermore, I am also pleased that the Judicial Committee is now agreeing to open up the possibility of permanent non-proliferation sentences with electronic control. For each serious case, punishment at home is the only way you can execute the sentence. It is very unfortunate that some of these are given repeated acquittals or criminal breaks and go free in society without any control measures until the sentence expires. The possibility of EK will contribute to the effective execution of the sentence, and the conviction will be monitored and followed up by criminal justice. I am also pleased that the Judicial Committee agrees with the proposal to allow the use of digital solutions to control conditions for EK. Today's footlink only provides information on whether or not jurisdictions are at home at the scheduled time, but not the location of convictions in case of avoidance or termination of terms and conditions. Although the percentage of fractures on EK is low, in some cases, and especially with the new target groups with which we are expanding today, control measures beyond what is possible with today’s footlinks could be necessary. The proposal is also well-balanced with regard to privacy. EK occurs upon request from the court itself, so that the use of e.g. tracking technology cannot be imposed on the dome. Tracking checks may be decided only as far as is necessary for safety reasons and can only be activated in the event of a breach. Tracking data shall be erased at the end of the criminal execution — unless convictions have violated the conditions and the information must therefore be used in a criminal offence. I note that the members of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left, who support the proposal in the proposal, have noticed that the government wants to lower the number of prison places with lower security, with the result that more convictions have to be transferred to high-security prisons. I believe that resources must be used as efficiently as possible in criminal matters. The closures of sites with lower security levels have a background to predictions from the Directorate of Criminal Welfare, which have shown an overcapacity in prison sites with lower security levels, while we need more with a higher level of security. Overcapacity is mainly due to increased capacity on the EK. The government has thus seen an opportunity to re-prioritise the use of prison sites with lower levels of security for increased use of EK. At the same time, resources will also be released to invest more at a higher level of security. We need that because there are more like that. receive custody sentences. These are very resource-intensive places, and that's where we have the big challenges of isolation, too, that we have to tackle.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1332	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1337	Penalty enforcement with a foot link was mentioned and talked a lot about in St.meld. No 37 for 2007–08, but as part of what we call the payroll ladder, which the Council of State is certainly well aware of, i.e., the fact that it is used for example. after a time in open prison, society can go out under electronic control to facilitate its return to society. How does the Council of State address this use of electronic control in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1342	It will be the criminal service that will have to decide on it on a case-by-case basis, as the law is designed. If you think it is proper to carry out the last part with electronic control based on the legislation we adopt here today, of course I have nothing against it. However, given some of the issues that have been raised in the past with a lower level of security – as I have understood the criticism of what was probably the previous debate – it is important that we put down a bit at a lower level of security because we want to have a capacity at the right level. The right level in the future is going to be more EK, and it's going to be more high security. And then the tapering down in the settlements might go via low security and then into the EK, but in some cases, criminal services may think it's right to go straight to the EK. But it's up to the criminal authorities to evaluate.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1348	I thank you for your answer. The councils are probably right that we're a little worried about getting the big increase in EK, all the time we've now put down so many open prisons that the catch might not be so big. It is good to hear that the Council of State has confidence in the ability of criminal services to assess the implementation of criminal sanctions on electronic control, but an important principle for the implementation of criminal sanctions on electronic control in the context of rehabilitation and the important repatriation programmes is to strengthen free movement of persons. Is the Council of State planning to strengthen the free movement of persons?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1353	It's important to strengthen both. It is clear that at a cost of electronic control which is much lower than in both low safety and high safety, there is room for strengthening free care. These are things that are connected. At the same time, money is released, but I would like to stress that it is not the economy here that is the motivation. We make legislation based on what we think is right and proper, but the consequence of this is also the release of funds to strengthen free care. High-security prisons are also strengthened, because there are major challenges. That's where we have the big challenges of isolation, and that's where we have the big challenges of getting good rehabilitation. If we don't get a good rehabilitation on high security, there's less going to be transferred to low security and EK.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1358	Here's a lot I can agree with, but the committee was traveling and visiting the office in Horten that manages electronic control for the country, and the huge increase and perhaps the savings that the Council of State sees for itself, I think you might want to figure out a little bit more. The reason I'm asking and digging about this is that there's a lot to relate to when implementing EK. When the committee was in Scotland recently, we were told that there had been a lot of use of EK in previous years, but then there had been a terrible killing with someone who was being punished at EK. Some of the problem around it, as I understood it, was that perhaps one had not followed up well enough in the municipalities and the police through the criminal justice system to ensure good supervision and control of those who were on the execution. How does the Council of State assess that situation? What measures does he want to put in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1363	That is exactly why I am very pleased that we have now had extensive opportunities to have more digital tracking of those who are at EK, so that you know that you have a broader set of measures you can start. But it's always so that it's difficult also for the criminal services to know when it's safe to use EK, and when it's proper for the prisoner to go back to society. These are always difficult subjects for assessment. We also had a situation in London not very long ago, where a person at EK committed a terrorist act, as I understood from the media. Obviously, this challenges being able to use EK on people who have been in prison for example. killed and with other serious judges. But I must stress that this should be at the very end of the execution of the sentence, and it should be when the criminal justice department believes it is proper. I believe that they are the closest ones to assess that situation and not we politicians.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1368	It's good to hear the trust that the Council of State has in criminal matters. I think it's nice that the Council of State lends ear to the good professionals there. But to dig a little bit more into the increase the Council of State is talking about in terms of EK: has the Ministry perhaps made some assessments of how much increase you think it will be in electronic control when we now implement this judgment length change?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1373	If we have any number on it, then I have to come back to it, because I don't remember in my head right here and now. What's important to me is that we have a comprehensive, good criminal care where we get good use of the resources. We're perfectly aware that it might not be the too large increase. The large increase has already occurred, as there has been a rather large increase over the 11 years EK has been allowed in Norway. But what's developmental is that several of the less serious judgments are served by EK. Crime trends are such that, for example: Winning crimes have decreased by 36 p.m., while we have seen a sharp increase in more serious crimes, such as sexual offences. That's what it means that we're going to be less in need of low-security sites in the future, while we're going to need more high-security sites. It simply has to do with the nature of the crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1378	I believe the premise that criminal execution with electronic control will be as successful as we all hope it will be, probably requires a certain vigilance from both the ministry, the magnificence and the ministry – that we have good control of how many are going to have this kind of criminal execution. I'm going to ask a written question to the Council of State, so he'll have time to think about how much you expect this increase to be on.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1383	I see that we have mentioned this in the proposition itself, it is under the chapter on administrative and economic consequences. It was just that I didn't remember it right here and now, but the increase should be up to 20 pst. for the category within the penalty framework for which EK opens.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1388	The cord shift is over. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1406	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to five rows of replies will be given after contributions by members of the government. Those who have to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1413	The main aim of the changes in this proposition is to prevent children from being sent abroad and exposed to criminal offences or to danger. It is a direct follow-up of a very important matter that we discussed last year, in 2018. It is also proposed to provide clearer rules and extended access to the issue of passports to children without the consent of their parents. There are changes that make it easier for children stranded abroad to come back where parents work against the return. The Proposition proposes that travel documents be refused to be issued to persons who have been paroled from detention or prison subject to the condition of not leaving the country. Today it is possible to derogate. The rules will be able to meet the challenges we have with the release of probation leaving abroad without coming back. I would like to thank the Committee for a good cooperation in what seems to be a unanimous case.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1422	I have often, including in this debate, reminded the government of coming up with issues that I believe we need to implement important measures, whether in terms of criminal gangs or social control and honorary violence. I would like to say that we are pleased that this matter has come forward. Among other things, the Stortinget took a decision in the spring of 2018 when we discussed our proposals on social control and honorary violence, which are also referred to in the vote. I believe that what has been presented here today is an important follow-up to the fact that it is possible for those who have to do with this, whether it is child protection or other authorities, to prevent children – where there is a suspicion that they may be sent to, among other things. Quran schools with many problems abroad — get travel documents and passports and can leave farms. It's very good to protect these children and families from that kind of assault. It may be possible to ask the Council of State to elaborate on the premises that are now in this law, as a whole, are good enough tools — about the news issue that was in the news today of 4,000 people who have been deprived of shelter in Norway — and provide good enough opportunities to prevent those who are not called on to make atonement yet, but are punished, from travelling abroad. It is more of a question from the fact that I hope the police believe that there are good enough grounds for it – whether the Minister of Justice will elaborate on it. But first of all, I am satisfied that a matter from last year has been followed up. I hope that other issues from the Stortinget related to actions for those sent to Koran Schools and other unsustainable conditions abroad – The Stortinget also took several other decisions to follow up – will come to Stortinget in a similar way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1431	I am pleased that the Stortinget today is dealing with several important proposals that will help prevent children and young people from being left abroad against their will. Negative social control is a serious social problem that we have to fight. Several of the suggestions in the proposition are part of exactly that. The proposal to refuse passports where there is a risk that the minor will be exposed to criminal offences abroad or conditions that could lead to a risk to life or health shall take account of the minor's desire to have a passport. In this way, we can prevent minors from being left abroad under irresponsible conditions when there is a risk of doing so. The proposal does not impose greater restrictions on the freedom of movement of minors than is necessary to achieve the objective itself. This means that even if passports are refused, they may be issued with a limited period of validity, e.g.: if the child is to participate in a class tour. When it comes to minors who are left abroad under irresponsible conditions, it is often pointed out that access to the issue of passports today is far too narrow. Although it may not be quite right, it will now at least be clear from the law that passports can be issued in such cases. It's important to get those kids back home, too. With regard to probation from prison, you can today be paroled with conditions that you should not leave the country, and you can get passports. However, a probationary period has been issued and left the country in breach of the conditions imposed. The proposal in the proposal today implies that passports should be refused to this group and therefore excludes the possibility of circumventing those conditions. But the proposal will probably not take away from foreigners the possibility of being able to take care of them, for example. Waiting for a pardon. It is also part of the challenge to which the report referred today by the representative of Bohemia addresses, for many of the issues relate to foreigners who are called to acquittal and do not meet. Overall, the changes in the provision for the issue and refusal of travel documents to minors represent an important element in preventing minors from being left abroad against their will. In any case, I am very pleased that the Committee has unanimously endorsed these proposals. I hope that all children and young people in the Groruddalen and elsewhere who have been anxious for the summer holidays can now look forward to the summer. I hope it can be better in the summer of 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1442	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1458	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the government. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines with replies will be given, after contributions by members of the Government, and those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1467	I would like to start by thanking the Cooperation Committee on this matter. Last year, the Stortinget adopted the possibility of time-limited weapons for the police in vulnerable areas, so-called point-arming. The starting point for the Norwegian police has been that it is not armed, but so the police were given the opportunity to permanently arm themselves in places that are particularly vulnerable. There may be airports, hubs or other places. What this proposition and the setting add up to is that the police are given the opportunity to move armed between these vulnerable objects, because after today's arrest, the police cannot be armed when they move between vulnerable places where there is point-arming. This appears to be a better use of resources and more appropriate organisation. It is also within the scope of the proposal that the Ministry will inform the Storting about the scope of this in the annual information to be provided. This setting is supported by all parties in the Committee, with the exception of SV. As the rapporteur, I now believe that I have summarised the Committee's work. However, I would like to make some more political considerations about the importance of both the time-limited armament in vulnerable areas, i.e. point-arming, and arms in general. The Progress Party and the Right proposed a general weapon against the police during the last government period. There was no majority for that on the Stortinget. We believed that the changed threat situation in Europe required some changes to the legislation, so that the police are better able to safeguard the security of citizens and to bring down dangerous incidents that might occur. The last few weeks have reminded us of what kind of events this could be. On Saturday, two weeks ago, there was a terrorist attack in two cities in Europe. In The Hague several people were stabbed, and in London, at London Bridge, a terrorist was shot by the police after he had attacked several civilians with a knife and also killed two civilians. Within five minutes, the police were at the scene and shot the perpetrator. The same place, London Bridge, was the scene of a similar terrorist attack two years ago, in 2017. Then it took less than eight minutes from the incident, until the police were present and shot the three perpetrators involved. This somewhat reflects the terrorist situation that we have experienced in Europe in recent years. Christmas markets, stations, places where many civilians live, are attacked by terrorists. I can also mention Amsterdam last year, where a person started attacking with a knife around him. The police, who were present within minutes, managed to shoot the perpetrator and put him out of play. These incidents and the threat we are facing now, for which we are unfortunately not protected in Norway either, are the starting point for the police to need a higher level of arms than was the case in the past. I believe point-arming is an important measure to enable the police to bring down such incidents quickly if they occur, and that the possibility of moving armed between these vulnerable sites also increases the police's ability to respond quickly to incidents if they are to occur in the vulnerable places or near those places. I am therefore very pleased with this proposition, and I am also pleased that it seems that this is being adopted in Stortinget today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1484	These are the perspectives that the rapporteur sets out on whether serious incidents we see can unfortunately happen, which is the background to the earlier support of the Workers' Party for the proposal on point-to-point armaments. I would like to stress that the proposal we are dealing with here today includes rolling between these vulnerable objects. It is a proposal promoted by the Oslo Police District for practical reasons and based on resource use. I don't see it as a plot from the government to get a slipping trend towards general armaments. I would like to stress that when I have asked those who are working on this in the Oslo Police Department, they say that there are short distances, often a few hundred meters, between these vulnerable objects. It's primarily within Ring 1. For safety reasons, they do not specify exactly which vulnerable objects they operate with at all times. One I know is outside Ring 1, the synagogue at St. Hanshaugen, but that's also where we talked about very short distances. So there's a practical question about how the police handle it when they're going to move across the short distances between these vulnerable points. What is important, and which I want to add to what the case rapporteur said, is that if the police move between these points or stand on these vulnerable points, they are given a mission that should not be armed – that is, if they are to participate in another police action because resources are needed elsewhere, for example. in the center, and there's a car there – they have to disarm. They cannot intervene with weapons in situations other than those relating to the vulnerable objects. Therefore, this is not a glare in the direction of general armaments. I would like to emphasise the practical considerations that the police have mentioned to me when I have discussed this with them. It's that it's about disarmament and weapons, that is, when the police have to disarm and arm themselves, and especially when it's going to happen quickly, there's the greatest risk of wetshots. Many such procedures – to implement the procedures to run a few hundred metres – would be an unnecessary burden even in a risk perspective. In particular, as representatives of Oslo, we see the need for patrols around the districts, among others. related to juvenile delinquency. I myself go to bed and often wonder where the police will be when we have events, and then I am often told that they must have cars by them and the vulnerable objects. The fact that you have the ability to use a few fewer cars there and can move between the vulnerable objects in a more flexible way serves the resource use and thus the security of the population in Oslo by using the unfortunately limited number of patrols you have better. As indicated in the comments, we assume that this is in limited areas. It's not about, for example. a whole city, like the city of Alna, in which I dwell, and stretching from Tean to Ellingsrud. It's not about the big areas. The police explain that these vulnerable points are primarily within Ring 1, but should not be reported for safety reasons. We agree with the proposal that the government is promoting and that has been developed by the Oslo Police District for their practical reasons. We do not agree that this can be interpreted as a glare towards general armaments, with the stresses I have made now, and which lie in the case proposal itself. We must not interfere with the police's work too much. Stopping, or how to do it at these short distances, and make disarmament and armament procedures are not absolutely necessary when operating at such short distances and should have the best possible use of resources – and when you have these specific rules to disarm if you are to participate in other police work.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1501	We in the Central Party are firmly opposed to the general armament of the Norwegian police on the basis of arguments we have gone through in previous debates. At the same time, we want a practical approach to the issue. We have therefore gone in the past to allow point-arming of the police with some particularly vulnerable objects. This can be e.g. be single aerodromes and Oslo S. One of the proposals we are dealing with in today's case about changes in police laws is to allow the police to be armed also on the road to vulnerable objects where there is already or will be allowed point-arming, and likeins when they move between such objects. We are going to vote in favour of this because we do not believe it is justified by the principle that Norwegian police as a general rule should be unarmed, in addition, it is entirely in line with our desire to have a practical approach to politics, and we see no reason to suspect the intentions behind this presented. Rather, it appears to be a reasonable adaptation to the point-arming system, and I perceive the proposal in the same way as Jan Bøhler suggested in his post. I would like to stress that the government must comply with the call decision of Prop. 70 L for 2017-2018, which reads: ‘The government is asked to keep Stortinget informed annually and appropriately about the extent of the police’s point-to-point weaponry.’ I note that the Ministry of Justice writes that they will annually ‘inform the Stortinget about any unlimited weapons between vulnerable objects related to information on the extent of time-limited point-arming’. I hope this means that the department will actually follow the call, even if they haven't taken the time to come up with such an orientation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1517	We in SV are the only people who disagree with this, and I'm going to take the opportunity to explain why, although I think it's quite familiar to the Justice Committee, which is in the Chamber. So we're against extending the permit to carry weapons between so-called vulnerable points. Nor does the representative of Bohemia say that there is a geographical demarcation of this. The proposition submitted does not provide a geographical delimitation. This expression 'between' is not clear to us -- it could be miles, to put it straight out. These are the same arguments against permanent armament between these vulnerable objects, as the arguments against a permanent armament of the vulnerable objects. SV is not against the fact that in different situations the police should be able to assess the need for weapons on their hips in order to protect people from some danger, but we make two concrete demands: When the police carry weapons, it must be based on an entirely concrete threat or a vulnerability analysis – a concrete threat or vulnerability analysis. It is not enough to refer to a situation outside Europe or outside the world, because it is not necessarily relevant for Karl Johan. The police must be able to present a concrete threat or vulnerability analysis that says that this is the case, for example. in Oslo. The second requirement we make is that the type of weapon should not be permanent. Once the threat is over, the weapons shall be locked in until another threat arises and they can be re-established. And why is this so important? Well, because we still want to have the least possible use of weapons. The police are solving 99 out of 100 cases without weapons. And we don't want any more use of weapons on the hips of the police to get the police to solve problems with weapons that they would otherwise have solved without weapons. You move the problem solution from "without weapons" to "with weapons" problem solution. You lower that threshold, and we're basically against that. It's unnecessary. It weakens the civil character of the police, it weakens the trusted audience to the police, and it destroys some of the intentions of the police law, where it says that there should be the least possible use of power when the police have to solve their tasks. Moreover, we do not have a crime trend in Norway that suggests a need for more weapons. Crime in Norway goes down, it doesn't go up. The type of crime that goes up – and this is for the representative Gulati – is violence in close relationships, rape and data crime. The type of crime that goes up is not a type of crime that we need to prevent — rather, on the contrary, we need completely different resources. So we don't have a crime trend in Norway that wants more use of weapons. So here again comes the government with a proposal for more use of weapons that are not justified in the development of crime. I think that's very serious. When we're going to give the police the opportunity to use more weapons, it's going to have a very good and strong reason. There are insufficient practical reasons, as it is societally important for the police to use more weapons, and that does not make these practical arguments. Then it's actually like that, and this might be to the representative Jan Bøhler: the Progress Party wants permanent armaments, but they don't. The size won't give them that. So what do they do? Yeah, they're taking it piece by bit. First there was temporary armament, then there was so-called temporary armament of vulnerable objects, and then there was time-limited armament of vulnerable objects, and then former state councillor Tor Mikkel Wara came to Stortinget last year and told him that he would allow police patrols in Oslo to use weapons, without the Storting being involved in this. So when people in Oslo see the police, they feel there's an armed police force in Oslo. It's not an unarmed police force in Oslo. When the audience meets the police, you'll see it's armed police. So coming over and talking about this not having slipped out, I think it's very strange. This has slipped out. It is a sneaking-in of permanent armament that this government – with the Advance Party at its head – stands for. So I have to challenge my colleagues from the Workers' Party and the Center Party: you don't want a permanent extension of arms in the police, and I think at the same time you should be much more restrictive in granting permits for this kind of slippage.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1544	So this case is about a change to the police law on the point of armaments. It is quite unnecessary to remind the Chamber and, in particular, the Committee that in given situations this debate can have a legal significance, so I would therefore like to say on behalf of the Left: the Granavolden Declaration states that the government is in favour of ‘renewing the possibility of providing point-to-point weapons in vulnerable areas after risk and vulnerability analyses’ – neither more nor less. In general, the left considers that an unarmed police force is a quality feature of our society and is therefore generally sceptical about any extension of the right to police weapons. So we're talking here about an opportunity for armed conflict between vulnerable points. There is reason to interpret the new legal provision as being essentially about weapons that are hidden from the public, i.e. when transporting between vulnerable points, for example. between the Castle, a department and an embassy. So it's not, as Left interprets it, with this amendment of the law given the opportunity to patrol with weapons running, for example. in the area along Karl Johan's Gate between Stortinget and Castle with visible weapons because these points are considered vulnerable. The Labour Party refers to a decision in the Stortinget in 2018, where the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, SV and the Christian People's Party were given a majority for a proposal where the Stortinget asks the Government ‘Annually and appropriately keep the Stortinget informed of the extent of police point-arming’. The left voted against this decision on the grounds that this would entail unnecessary ritual bureaucratic action. But that doesn't mean there can't be any reason to ask the ministry for such an overview. We must prevent the police from interpreting this as a substantial extension of the right to armaments, in other words, that this is considered as being almost free from arms only to extend the concept of 'vulnerable points', i.e. we are not now heading towards a smooth runway towards a general weaponry. In this respect, I believe that the Council of State may well be prepared for the need for such an overview in certain cases to be required. Then I refer to the setting where it says: ‘The Ministry will provide information annually on the size of any unlimited weaponry between vulnerable objects in relation to information on the extent of time-limited point-arming.’; There's some nuance differences here. I'm not going to take a line at the Council of State, but nevertheless it might be interesting to encourage him to express his opinion on this particular point.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1567	First, I want to take the opportunity to boast to the representative Jan Bøhler for his posts. It explained in a very good and pedagogical way what this issue really is about, and I think my post is going to be considerably shorter as a result of the good description of the representative, Bøhler. What I am pleased about is that the Justice Committee is following the government's proposal for changes to the police law, which allows the police to move between vulnerable objects where there is a decision on time-limited armaments – that is, the point weapon we're talking about. I consider it appropriate to stress that the scheme is only a supplement to the time-limited point-armament that entered into force on 1 July 2018, and that is not an independent weapon base. Under the current regime, the police cannot be armed when they move from one point to another, creating practical challenges, in particular such as here in the Oslo Centre, where there are short distances and a number of safety assessments and practical implementations such as gun checks are to be made. It takes time, and it's time we take away from active patrols. So this is just about being able to make the police better able to do their job. This bill does not allow access to a so-called territorial weapon without a time limit, where all police patrols within a specified area may be armed. The anti-armament weapon in the bill thus applies to the dedicated police patrol to protect two or more vulnerable objects within a demarcated area. The need for armaments between vulnerable objects should be assessed on a regular basis, and the Ministry will provide details on this in a police weapon instruction. I have noticed that the majority of the Judicial Committee cannot see that the government has briefed the Storting on the extent of police point-arming, i.e. the follow-up to the request decision. I then draw attention to the fact that the government has informed the Storting about the extent of the police's point-arming and the temporary armament in Oslo, Prop. 1 S, i.e. the budget, for 2018–2019, page 128, and in Prop. 1st@item: inlistbox S for 2019-2020, on page 118.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1580	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1585	The debate on arms opens up a discussion about how much the police actually have. In the budget both last year and this year, we have tried to ask the Minister of Justice how much money has been allocated to the police operating budget for the purchase of new weapons. Both last year and this year we asked about this, both our own written questions and budgetary questions – the department refuses to answer us. So I see it so that the Minister of Justice is unable to answer the Storting on how much weapons the police have in circulation. What is central is that the Storting should control the state's use of power and the police's means of power, but the Minister of Justice is unable to inform the Storing about this. So my question is, why can't the Minister of Justice tell the Council about the budget the police have for the purchase of weapons, and how much weapons are available to the police?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1590	With regard to the policemen who have access to service weapons — there are quite a few of them — we have used a lot of resources to ensure that those patrols who are prepared to enter very dangerous situations have new and modern weapons. Of course, this is the case with the emergency team here in Oslo. Not least the IP3 patrols. You have to use resources on weapons, it's important, but I don't have a concrete overview of what each police district has bought from service and that kind of thing. But there is no doubt that that expenditure has also increased, in line with the fact that there have been many more policemen in Norway, and there have been many more policemen who can operate patrols. I assume that SV does not believe that one should not even have a weapon available to the police in cases where they come up in a sharp situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1596	Of course, the police have to have guns. I have expressed that very clearly. What I'm concerned about is that the Storting should have the opportunity to have an overview of how much weapons are available in the police, and similarly, the Stortinge will have the opportunity to know how much weapons are available in the military. I have to repeat this question, because the Minister of Justice does not answer it: why can't the Minister of Justice inform the Council of how much money is intended to buy weapons, and how much the police have available?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1603	I also have no idea how much the police jackets cost, and how much money we have spent on it in the last year. What is important information for Stortinget is to be sure that you follow the Arms Act and make sure that you have control of each weapon, so that the weapon does not go astray. This is something that both the police and the defense have to handle. There are quite strict rules for this now as well. I can't quite see the relevance of the fact that we're going to start using a lot of administrative resources to start digging out what each police district has spent on buying weapons. This is part of the police uniform, it's part of the equipment the police are given. All of which, for example: In the case of patrols and IP approvals, weapons shall be available – not at all times, but available. I have not heard that the SV has even disagreed that they should have it available. It obviously has a cost of buying weapons, but it's part of what this big business has actually decided.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1608	I can give the Minister of Justice the good advice that this is not very difficult. It's just to send a letter to the police districts to hear how much they've been planning to buy weapons for, he gets those answers very simple. It doesn't take much. Then there's a big difference in principle between jackets and weapons. Weapons are the power of the state. I believe that the highest body in the country will have an overview of the means of power available out there. I perceive that it is a serious democratic problem if the Storting cannot have access to know how much weapons are available outside the police force. It will create a kind of autonomy for the police that the police in the districts themselves will decide how much weapons they have. It's a situation that we won't accept. The police must have weapons – yes. But we need to know how many weapons they have.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1615	In terms of the number of weapons, there is a slightly different matter. What you've asked about is the cost, that is, how much money you've spent on weapons within a given period of time. There is something quite different, then you have to start digging, then we have to manually find that information. It takes a lot of resources. We have just had a debate in Stortinget about the budget of the police where it was pointed out that there is too much detail management; there is too much reporting up in the system. What the representative Eide wants us to do now is to impose even more detail on the police and even more reporting obligations. I don't intend to use resources on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1620	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1627	I really don't intend to fill the speaking time now, I just want to make a comment to the representative Grimstad, because I think he explains this well and explains Left's view in a good way. I understand that SV has a good ally in the left when it comes to keeping low weapons in the police. I record that the Left wants the same as us, the least possible weapons from the police and the least possible use of weapons. Then we're probably in disagreement about what this proposal actually means, because I definitely believe that this proposal opens up more use of weapons on the hip of the police. It is actually this way – to Grimstad – that this proposal that comes along opens up so that the police can patrol along Karl Johan with their weapons, even if the Left is against it. I would have liked the Left to stand on its principal positions in this far more clearly and not be caught by the wish of the Justice Ministers of the Progress Party over the last few years, namely to give ever greater access to the weapons of the police, but that the Left from the beginning had been much, much clearer that they wanted to slow down that development. I now see that the Left does not contribute to slowing that development, it is only SV who are trying to slow down the development of more weapons in the police.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1634	The Progress Party has been in favour of general armaments of the police, which was also decided by the Joint Association of Police in 2017. This was also part of the government declaration between the Right and the Advance Party in 2013, but there is no majority in favour of the Stortinget, nor is this introduced in Norway. This is not a general weapon for the Norwegian police today. However, a number of other measures have been put in place that still provide the police with the opportunity to arm themselves. This has been done, among others. due to the changing threat situation both in Norway and in Europe, and are important measures for police to be able to intervene and respond rapidly to dangerous situations. The representative Eide believes, if I understood him correctly, that these measures, including so-called point-arming, i.e. unlimited weapons in vulnerable places, are an attempt at snitching the general armament of the Norwegian police. It's not. If it were up to the Progress Party, it would have been general armaments, but we have no support for it among the majority of the parties in this Chamber. However, the measures put in place are very important for the police to be able to address precisely the situations that we have seen all too often in European cities in recent years. It's not just weapons weapons, but electroscopic weapons, non-lethal weapons, which have been introduced as a pilot project in several police districts – and as the media pictures showed us by June this year, when a person running around with a knife not far from the bodyguard in Oslo Centre was harmlessd by the police using electroscopic weapons, after this person had injured civilian passersby with a knife. The proposition we are discussing today is that the non-time-limited weaponry in vulnerable places also allows the police to move between these places armed. I think it's important. It is right for the organisation, for the use of resources, but also for this to be done in a more effective way, without increasing the risk of wetting and other practical things that can arise when you have to disarm and arm yourself whenever you move between such vulnerable places.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1643	I'll be brief, so the next committee gets to start with its budget debate. I just don't want any doubt about the Workers' Party's position when it comes to general armaments. One could almost get the impression that SV wanted to add meaning to us instead of what we don't have. SV is not alone in any way in having a stand against general arms and fighting the same fight, just as I have the impression that the representative Grimstad from the Left gave a very clear expression. What is important for the Workers' Party, and what is also seen in the setting, is that the premises that were used to allow point-arming by vulnerable objects are the premises that still exist. I feel that the government party is also a few in it. The Himanshu Gulati from the Progress Party is clear that the fight for the Progress Party to introduce general armaments has just been lost. There is no multiple for it. It might also be a good idea to make it clear in the minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1654	I'm just going to clarify very briefly: no, that's not how the representative Eide says, that the left has been caught in a web here. To the extent that we've let ourselves get caught in something, it's the Granavolden statement -- I would have used other expressions myself. But it's actually about, as I said in my first post, that the government is in favour of continuing the possibility of providing point-arming in vulnerable places after a risk and vulnerability analysis – neither more nor less. It must be okay to have as a navigation instrument in this case. Essentially, this change is of a practical nature. So it's not the same thing as you see it, it's not the same thing as a glare. Then I still want to challenge the Council of State at my Karl Johan example. If, in the view of the Left, a vulnerable point is the Castle and a vulnerable point is the Storting, it should not be possible to walk with the ‘weapon on the hip’, as Eide expressed it, between these two points, because it would be a slip.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1661	The representative Petter Eide has spoken twice before in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1666	First to Grimstad: it is absolutely right that the Granavolden Declaration states that increased arms should be given after a risk and vulnerability analysis. This proposition is not justified by a risk and vulnerability analysis. It wasn't the last one, either, when we gave access to increased weapons on vulnerable objects. There were general considerations about a risk and not after a concrete threat and vulnerability. So this proposal does not actually follow the Granavolden declaration. Himanshu Gulati uses references to strong terrorist incidents in Europe to justify the need for weapons in Norway. That's one too weak reason. PST provides advice on threats in Norway, not the representative Gulati. PST does not report an increase in the risk of terrorism in Norway — they do not report an increase in the risk of terrorism in Norway. I trust the PST much more than I trust the considerations that Himanshu Gulati had to have when he watched TV.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1674	The representative Petter Eide is quite clearly afraid of slipping out, but I don't think he hears absolutely well according to what we say, we who are actually against the general armament of the police, but who can accept the arrangement of point-arming and likein's arrangement with an armament on the transport between these objects. There is no contradiction between being a general unarmed police force and having a practical approach to some situations. Then the representative Petter Eide says that we want the least possible use of weapons. Yes, we do that in a way, but it's not quite right either. Because what we want is to have at least possible unnecessary and improper use of weapons in the police, and we want to avoid that weapons are readily available in situations and in places where weapons do not belong. That's why we in the Center Party are against the generally armed police, but at the same time may be for practical arrangements such as forward storage of weapons, which we think is absolutely necessary. And we're for the dot arming of particularly vulnerable objects. And we're now in this case to make it possible to transport between these objects with armed police, and we don't think it's a slipping.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1681	It was the representative Grimstad who challenged me with a very concrete example, namely the walking distance from the Castle to Stortinget, and whether to take off the weapon or not. It's going to be on a level of detail that I can't answer right now and here, but I think whatever the practical challenge with it is very small, because most people who run this type of patrol use a car because they have other equipment with them. What I understood was the problem was that you wear weapons visible on your hip. But it could be that there will be policemen going from one object to another, and since we haven't identified objects in this debate, it's a little hard to start commenting on such types of examples. I think we can well maintain that this is simply a bill that makes everyday life easier for the police, which makes them save time, and it's better for the HMS. This has nothing to do with whether or not there is more weapons in society, because there are other rules that determine whether or not to be armed. This is simply a sensible proposal, and that is why I am pleased that a good majority of the committee has supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1688	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 5, but the president expects that the issue of arms can be more debated in the next case. At the request of the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee, cases will be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 6, 7 and 8 are processed below one.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1728	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the allocated speaking time in the debate will be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes, and the President will organise the debate as follows: Labour Party 25 minutes, Right 25 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Centre Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Environmental Party Green 5 minutes and Red 5 minutes. Moreover, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines with replies will be given after contributions from members of the government. In addition, those who may subscribe to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1737	In recent years, the world has been plagued by more unrest and unforeseeability, under pressure of commitment to international cooperation, and the rise of major activism. The disarmament agreement is being weathered and terminated, and the risk of new armament spirals is increasing. We see more protectionism, isolationism and nationalism. Over 70 million people are fleeing. Differences are growing locally, regionally and globally. There is a risk of geopolitical tensions and escalating trade conflicts that create uncertainty and threaten economic growth, security and stability. In particular, environmental and climate damage is a common challenge that requires greater attention and stronger efforts. The overall impact of climate change undermines all dimensions of development and living conditions. At the same time, the world is moving forward in important areas. Vaccination programmes save millions of lives every year. Never before have so many children been able to celebrate their five birthday. It is also far less poor in the world. In particular, the economic growth in Asia has helped millions out of extreme poverty. Extreme poverty is increasingly an African problem today. But also on the African continent, there are economic points of light. Ethiopia was long characterized by extreme poverty and famine. 1.2 million Ethiopians lost their lives during the famine of the 1980s. In these Christmas seasons it is 35 years since Bob Geldof became world famous with his song 'Do They Know It's Christmas?'. The song isn't out of date, but that's probably the text, because someone knew it was Christmas, maybe it was the Ethiopians. Christianity became state religion in Ethiopia in 330 C.E. So it was 700 years before the Battle of Stiklestad. For Ethiopia, many arrows point in the right direction. In the decade between 2008 and 2018, Ethiopia had an average annual economic growth of impressive 9.9 pst. Politically also points the arrows in the right direction, visible with the distribution of the Nobel Peace Prize to Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed earlier this week. Much is still undone, and the political situation in Ethiopia is fragile, but on his impressive track record after only 18 months in the Prime Minister's chair is his effort for peace in and between neighboring countries on the Horn of Africa. In addition to Ethiopia's own peace process with Eritrea, the Prime Minister has contributed to normalisation between neighbouring countries Eritrea and Djibouti, he has been a mediator between Kenya and Somalia, between the military regime and the opposition in Sudan and between the government and rebels in South Sudan. His foreign policy may remind you of the slogan that Turkey, or Turkey's then foreign minister, had ten years ago. His slogan was «Zero Problems with our Neighbors». Like Ethiopia, Turkey has a very demanding neighbour, but today, no doubt Ethiopia has succeeded much better than Turkey in dealing with relations with its neighbouring countries. We don't choose our neighbors and our neighborhood. Geography is constant. Also, previous major powers need an orderly relationship with their closest neighbours. Today the British go to elections for the third time in four years. Brexit has been exposed once again, until 31 January next year. Get Brexit Done has been an important slogan in the UK election campaign. This is probably easier said than done, because it is only the divorce agreement itself that the British and the EU have now negotiated for years and the British have now negotiated. The divorce agreement is only the end of the beginning of the negotiation process. Potentially much more extensive, complex and lengthy negotiations await the future relationship between the United Kingdom and the EU. However, unlike other divorces, the United Kingdom and the EU cannot move far from each other. Geography is constant, and the United Kingdom and the EU will remain neighbours, not least on the Irish island. Of course, the United Kingdom will remain Norway’s neighbour over the North Sea, our largest trading partner and a very important ally in NATO. Whatever the outcome of the Brexit process, it is in Norway’s obvious interest to maintain a close and close relationship with the United Kingdom. There is broad agreement on the main lines of Norwegian foreign and defence policy. That is why we need to be able to find broad solutions for multilateral cooperation. We conclude on Norway's candidacy to the UN Security Council, and we agree on the commitments in NATO and to promote Norwegian interests in the EEA Agreement. I will support that, and the Workers' Party will contribute to a broad majority in foreign and defence policy. But let me say clearly on behalf of the Workers' Party that there is a heavy responsibility on the government, which is to manage this consensus. In the autumn of 2016, the Workers' Party made a defence settlement with the government. We agreed to complete the fighter aircraft investments and purchase new submarines and new surveillance aircraft. The other parties on the Stortinget did not want to form a majority for these three investments. Some wanted fewer fighter planes, others wanted to postpone investment in surveillance aircraft. But we agreed with the government and got, among other things. throughput to accelerate investment in fighting air protection to the Army. Air protection is much more important at a time of precision weapons and reduced alert times. That's why it was also important for us to contribute to air protection for the surveillance planes and fighter aircraft. Strategic capacities need to be protected. The government followed up on this. That's good. However, for the Army, a number of important investments and choices were put at risk to a separate land-use plan. Not without any doubt, we in the Workers' Party chose to conclude a new agreement on the future of the Army when the Land Power Plan was extended in the autumn of 2017. But today, in the process of the 2020 budget, the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left are proposing to cancel half of that agreement. These parties insist on building down Army 2nd Battalion in Inner Troms from a standing army to become a ring-to-arm, without decision in the Stortinget. The decision we made in the autumn of 2017 that the Army should have modern war vehicles must also be lifted. In addition, the army helicopters from Bardufoss and North Norway are removed, in violation of the settlement agreement we entered into in the autumn of 2016, where it was unequivocally stated that no helicopters were to be moved from Bardufoss until alternative capacity was in place. Today, there is a crisis in the medical evacuation preparedness in North Norway. The army's Bell helicopters are once again inserted as a civil air ambulance. I dare not think of what would have happened if the Right had received a pass to remove all the Bell helicopters from Bardufoss. In the budget we are dealing with today, it is most serious that the government will simply cancel the central parts of the Great Britain Agreement on the Army. I have not seen a single settlement concluded where the government proposes to cancel parts of an agreement that would last four years. This will be lifted two years after the conclusion of the agreement. One thing is the consequences for the credibility of the government parties, both as a contractual partner and in defence policy in general, the consequences are also serious for the army's operational capability. 2. Battalion shall be dismantled, contrary to the defense chief's fresh professional-military advice. Neither will the tanks come in 2019, we are even going back to the drawing board, says the Minister of Defence now. What does it mean to go back to the board? Does that mean that we should wait for the development of brand new tanks? In case the Army has to wait longer than 2025. Then we have to wait more than ten years. It won't last. When the Trump administration acceded in January 2017, one of the first decisions was a dramatic cut in the appropriations for prevention and abortion in poor countries. A number of countries protested and mobilised. Just after Trump administration's dramatic cut, the Dutch Minister for Development gathered other donors to compensate for the Americans' cuts. She thanked the co-organisers, who were Belgium, Denmark and Sweden, and she also thanked the first countries to signal support for the initiative, which was Canada, Cape Verde, Estonia, Finland and Luxembourg. Norway was not mentioned. The right-wing government made sure to place Norway neither in the first, second or third row of the international struggle for women’s rights. But then they came stronger. Eventually, government signals finally came that Norway too would increase assistance for family planning and women’s right to control their own bodies. The assistance in this very important field was just over 2 billion. NOK when the government took over in 2013. Then it fell to 1.3 billion. However, under binding international agreements and following meetings with several other countries, the government increased the aid to SEK 1.6 billion. kr. So it was a big increase, partly to compensate for the Trump administration's cut. But then we got a response from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs last week. After the Christian People's Party entered the government, 279 million were cut. kr to this important 2020 budget field. Away were the promises to increase as both Burnde, Astrup and Soreide had boasted of here in Stortinget. Obviously, this is a signal. It's a wrong signal that signals to the whole world that we do it very many other countries do: we cut the rights of abortion and contraception. We should not do that when more and more people join the alliance that builds their national legislation for women on outdated religious dogma about abstinence rather than protection, whether it is the Vatican State or Iran. Now they also get support from the United States. Norway should play a completely different role than the government does with this budget. I look forward to a good discussion today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1777	I'm going to deal with foreign policy and not with the hard relationship of the previous speaker with the government we have, and the abortion that this government has worked for, although there are many interesting discussions that it can lead to, and that have also been debated in this Chamber. Our foreign policy should take care of Norwegian interests, our security, our freedom, our economy and our well-being. We see a world marked by a change in direction of more unrest and unforeseeableness. We face major global challenges that individual countries cannot solve alone, and as a small country, we strongly support the fact that a well-functioning multilateral system is crucial for the world – and for the countries of the world, especially the small ones. But the international system, as we know it, with mutually committed cooperation, is in decline. In our own interest, it is also to participate in the fight against poverty globally. Environmental and climate damage is a common problem for the whole globe, and it requires stronger efforts in foreign and development policy as well. The accession to democratic governance also shows signs of stagnation. It is therefore essential that Norway should now further prioritise its commitment to democratic support. The arrangements and measures in this field need to be reviewed, and Norway needs to articulate its own policy of democratic assistance. We must also demand that countries receiving Norwegian aid show progress in the field of rule of law and that they show respect for civil society and minorities. Corruption is the very characteristic of a country's means ending in crazy places, in crazy pockets, and it also undermines the legitimacy of any government. Norway shall be a constructive party to the United Nations, NATO and other international organisations and shall conduct an offensive European policy aimed at increasing participation and influence through the EEA Agreement and the other agreements of Norway with the EU. Norway shall give priority to cooperation with allies in NATO over European partners. Norway, in cooperation with other countries, needs to make development policy targeted in order to deliver new, sustainable results. If not, results in this field, taking into account the willingness to transfer large amounts in the billion-dollar class, will also eventually undermine the legitimacy of development aid, on which all other policies will depend in the Norwegian population. It is a strength that the draft budget provides for a targeted effort for human rights at a time when countries prefer to define human rights to apply everything but the ability of individuals to live freely and to receive fair treatment by the authorities. Increased efforts come both through increased financial support and a new internal governance structure for the work of EEAS on human rights and gender equality. One of the UN’s sustainability goals, No. 16 of the 17 may not be the most advanced, but it just emphasizes good governance, justice and strong institutions as fundamentally important for sustainable development. We will claim that institutions that are strong in their independent functions and balance the trends in power concentration are a prerequisite for achieving many of the other sustainability goals. Strong democratic national institutions are essential to the achievement and fulfilment of these tasks by their own authorities. In a number of countries, the strengthening of administrative and judicial institutions is a problem, but also an area where assistance is sought. Norway has the opportunity to offer assistance in these areas, based on its experience and development. We highlight the transparency and inviolable management that is disconnected from personal self-interest, in the case of other countries and other organisations in which we participate. We therefore need to take seriously issues related to our own aid management. Therefore, I feel a certain concern when I have read the Business of the Day and the IPI, the International Peace Institute. Norway has provided tens of millions of dollars over the years, and questions arise as to whether the decision-makers in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have managed to keep the arm's length that we require when people allocate such funds. It shall not benefit personally from decisions and, where appropriate, from the use of their acquaintances. We want the Minister of Development to address these claims and possibly report back to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1794	I would first like to point out that there is an unusual void in the press shed on the left of me here, while it is the opposite of the diplomat lodge on the other side. The interest in foreign policy seems to be very lavish in Medie-Norway, but they have strong opinions when they first start writing. This could be a good day for the United Kingdom, a good day for the British and a good day for us who believe that international cooperation should be based on the sovereignty of the nation states rather than on supranationality. So let's hope for a wreckage for Boris Johnson today. It is not the kindest and most merciful one who gives the most in aid. However, in some environments and in some debate venues, such a premise is often the basis for the debate. Norwegian aid policy has also been characterised by such an understanding. It is easy to understand that the person who thinks differently, at the bottom and bottom, is a great egoist. It is a poor settlement of the recipients of assistance. No community can be based on assistance. That is why we have to make demands. Some requirements are not difficult to meet. Aid countries which oppose and even prohibit freedom values such as freedom of expression, equality, equality, pluralism and the principles of a secular rule of law deserve no assistance from Norway. The absence of such freedoms is not due to lack of food or poverty. It's because of leaders who use culture and religion to oppress their own people. The aim of the Progress Party is to remove all such countries from the list of beneficiaries of Norwegian aid. With what is behind me, I want to commend the government's commitment to developing a Norwegian aid performance portal. Here we want to know where the money is going, what they're used for, and what the effects of it are. The results portal gives us a better overview of which projects produce good results, and who does not. Good intentions, but weak results shall not result in automatic refilling of new crowns in the next budget. In developing the performance portal, the main focus is the target formulation. The main objective must be non-assistance. We also need to be clear that we can't or should not be anything to anyone. According to the World Bank, 600 million new jobs must be created in developing countries by 2030 for young people entering the labour market. These jobs must come in the private sector. Therefore, the development of business plays a key role in poor countries. Here Norwegian business can play a major role. Norwegian aid funds can be used to increase the development value of Norwegian business activity in developing countries. This may, for example: be done by supporting local vocational training. This serves the businesses, and it serves the communities. Several reports, including those from the IMPACT-SE organisation, the Institute for Monitoring Peace and Culture Tolerance in School Education, have highlighted very critical content in school materials used in the teaching of Palestinian self-government areas. Among other things, the martyr's death and violent struggle, and the Palestinian terrorist Dalal Mughrabi, who killed 38 civilian Israelis, including 13 children, are being promoted as a role model. Map of the area has no connection with Israel, and Israeli cities are referred to as Palestinian cities. In politically neutral subjects such as mathematics and physics, students are asked to measure the power of a scattering shot at Israeli soldiers, and they learn probability calculation by counting martyrs. Therefore, in the vote, a majority of the government of Stortinget is asking to reduce or withhold financial support from the Palestinian Authority if they do not provide for a satisfactory improvement in school material. The Progress Party has been fighting for years for a more balanced Middle East policy. One of our main objectives has been that Palestinian authorities should be held responsible for their destructive role in the peace process. The content of Palestinian school books has been known for years, and that's something we've addressed several times. We are told that Norway is now demanding the Palestinian self-government authorities, and that our financial support will be withheld if the school books are not changed. We can no longer sit still and watch that Norwegian money contributes to a educational system that encourages children to violence and promotes antisemitism. That's enough. It is gratifying that a large majority on the Stortinget support this. However, I am very disappointed that the Workers' Party chooses to turn its back on anti-Semitism and the Jewish hatred of Palestinian self-government authorities. The content of these school books is totally reprehensible and in no way contributes to the basis of peaceful coexistence, which is the goal of Norway’s Middle East exposure. The fact that the Workers' Party accepts that Norwegian taxpayers finance a school system that actively teaches children to become violent and hate Jews is incomprehensible to me. Several of us in the hall today just came back from Washington DC this morning. There we attended the Parliamentary Trans Atlantic Forum. There are two things I want to mention that were important there. It's Turkey's role in NATO and the acquisition of the S-400 defense system, on which the Americans were quite clear would lead to sanctions against Turkey. Turkey and Erdogan responded immediately afterwards that they would impose sanctions on the United States, and that doesn't look good. Now I'm not getting any more, so I'm going to have to take a 3 minute later.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1817	First of all, I would like to make a brief comment on the agenda: it was very surprising that during my absence the committee put the debate on the Innst. 89 S for 2019-2020, cf. Document 8:140 S for 2018-2019, on a public evaluation of integrated strategic leadership in the defence sector, into the budget debate. That means that the debate will disappear, because the budget debate is full enough of what is. I appreciate that for the Right and the Advance Party, which promised to carry out such an evaluation in its first government platform, the Sundvolden platform – and which has subsequently turned around, for some reason – it is certainly nice to ignore the matter. But the Central Party will come back to that in a later article. We are living in a world that is changing, and the security policy image has changed. We are witnessing increased tensions between the major powers, a weakening of the multilateral world order and major global climate and environmental challenges. The United States is no longer taking the role of the guarantor of the security of Norway and Europe, while Russia has developed an ever-increasing willingness and ability to act against other nearby sovereign states. We have to follow up on what's happening around us, and be aware of the changes that are happening. The only way we can ensure that Norway, both now and in the future, is guided by Norwegian interests and Norwegian citizens' wishes, is that we can always defend our country. Therefore, we must prioritise our own security as high as possible. A world characterized by more unrest and insecurity results in many places, but more people on the run from their homes are perhaps the most precarious. Today, on a world-wide basis, over 70 million people are fleeing. The Central Party believes that through the UN, together with other sovereigns of democratic nation states, Norway must play an active role in helping refugees and also in working for peace and reconciliation. We note that the UN High Commissioner for Refugees is in great need of growth in his budgets, and last year the High Commissioner had a need of $1.95 billion. dollars only in Syria and the surrounding areas. Of this, the High Commissioner is missing $1.74. dollar. We therefore propose in our alternative budget that 240 million be allowed. in addition to the government's proposed budget. Climate change is the biggest global challenge today. If Norway and other countries do not have the power to deal with the climate challenges, the migration challenges we are witnessing today will be less like what lies ahead of us. Therefore, it is absolutely crucial that we be able to ensure adequate food production and that we can create climate-friendly agriculture in developing countries. The government's action plan on sustainable food systems is a good start, but lacks sufficient force in the follow-up, both in action and in the economy. The central party wants Norway to use more resources to ensure more people secure access to safe food, and we're allowing 50 million in our budget. to the food programme of the world in addition to the government's budget. The World Bank has made it clear that investments that attract small farmers in agriculture produce at least twice as much impact as other aid to eradicate poverty. This is the effective use of aid at the same time as it can help to eliminate hunger and poverty. So the center part wants to make an ear mark of 100 million. kr in support of small-scale agriculture. Norway needs to provide assistance in areas where Norway can make a difference. We have a high level of competence in agriculture. An agriculture that increases productivity based on sustainable management of the earth and natural resources, or else, is decisive to lift more people out of silt and poverty, and here our competence can benefit. The Central Party therefore proposes that more of the aid be earmarked for agriculture. At least 10 pst. all bilateral assistance must be earmarked for that purpose. In the past, we saw agriculture as the problem and cause of poverty. Globally, agriculture is now a major part of the solution. At the same time, we want more of the assistance to civil society to be given to organisations working to ensure people access to food and water. The probability of major activisation in the Arctic is increasing, and one sees an increasingly offensive China in the region. China uses large resources in research, and they use this at the same time to legitimize their military presence in the area. China has been eager over the last few years to develop the infrastructure in Arctic areas and to use new sea routes that open when the sea ice melts. As we are well aware, both the United States and Russia have major geopolitical interests in the north. Russia has nuclear missiles only a few meters from our borders. If this becomes a new arena for major activization, it will be very negative for our security situation, as it may lead to an intrusion between the major powers. We have to work to keep the Arctic as a demilitarized zone. We share this turbulence with our Danish neighbours, and when the committee was visiting Denmark, we got clear and good discussions about this. The Danish intelligence service claimed that they see Greenland as a security risk number one. In view of that, compulsory work on nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation should be at the heart of Norwegian security policy. We believe that Norway should love the UN Treaty which prohibits nuclear weapons, welcome, and work for him to be signed by NATO countries as well. In parallel with disarmament, Norway must build its own defences. In the fall, the head of the Defense Operational Headquarters made it clear that the Army is now too small to defend Norway in a conflict until reinforcements from our allies are in place. This is not acceptable. The proposal for a budget from the government once again shows that the country's power is down. When I talk to people in the Defense – not just those from the Army, but wide – it's with a feeling that the land power is the bag post of the government for all other investments. It's not a defensive way to build defense, and it doesn't give us the necessary defense of our country that we need. The government has proposed to turn the 2nd Battalion into a mobilization battalion, which is really the same thing as putting it down. In the Center Party, we are wondering, especially in the light of the security situation we are in, and the needs of the Army today. The necessary investments, agreed by a pool, and subsequently proposed by the Central Party in the annual budgets, have not yet been launched. It's very critical. The army is critically lacking and investment in new tanks must be advanced. I recorded that the Labour Party’s fractional leader – and leader in the Committee – went through the misdemeanors as to how the long-term agreement was implemented by the government. It would have been very useful if the Workers' Party had stood together and created multiple numbers with us and the other opposition parties instead of with the government. I can promise that it would not have been an interpretation problem if we had been together, and I hope that it will be possible at the next crossroads. The government has further weakened the Norwegian defence system by putting down the Sjöheimewert and reducing the Homeland Protection system by 5,000 soldiers. The internal coastline is more or less open. Government promises alternative coastal surveillance, e.g. with drones, but it's not followed up. We in the Central Party think that is a bad defence policy. The ownership of home security with local knowledge and locality for the service providers is crucial in ensuring territorial control throughout the country. Army is important, and inland and north is important, but Norway has a long coast. We can not only defend the open seas; we must also have a defence along our coasts and in the inner coastline. The centre party has fought – and will continue to fight – for the airbase of Andeya. We've always warned that the government and the Labour Party decided to shut down Andeya Air Station as the base for maritime surveillance aircraft, and think it's a historical mistake. It goes into the line of action that the government has taken that has led to a weakening of the Norwegian defence industry and a weaker economy for the Defence. Before the base of Evenes is built, we can confirm that the warnings have been activated. While the investment cost would follow the government, it would be 3.5 billion. kr, it's all clear that it's almost 1 billion. kr more. We have just as fully seen only a small part of the cost. The last new now is that the supply of hangar for P8 aircraft is to be postponed to autumn 2020. Perhaps the Council of State will do well for why it has that delay, how progress will be, and how it is thought from his side. The center part cuts the licenses for moving maritime patrol planes to Evenes in its budget, as we will keep the most awesome base we have for this activity, namely Andeya Air Station. Defence policy is partly weakened by this government. We're talking to different parts of the defense, and it's not just the county that's worried. In this Chamber we should be concerned about what defence we are building, what defence is to ensure the security of Norway's coming years. And with that, I'm going to deal with the proposal that the Center Party is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1851	The representative, Liv Signe Navarsette, then mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1856	Our world is marked by two major crises, and a third development that can become a major crisis. One is climate change – the global warming, the climate crisis – that is going on around us, threatening our entire future. The other is the increasing inequality in power and wealth that we see globally, and especially in our own part of the world. The third important development to bring with us when we are discussing our foreign and defence budget is the danger of new major activisation in the world and in our neighbourhoods. If we are to create a world for the many and not for the few – like young people, who are demanding action against the climate crisis, as workers, who are losing on the increasing inequality, or as the majority of states that are not majorities – we must think again, and we must think radically. We need to think about Norway's place in a new and different world. In the draft budget submitted by SV, we have given priority to using Norwegian wealth and influence to counter the two crises, and we have given priority to twisting defence policy in a national direction in order to better address Norway's needs and to reduce the emphasis on the needs of the major powers. While lately Donald Trump's attack on Greta Thunberg and the Madrid climate summit has been marked by climate change policy, Norwegian climate policy is still more marked by paralysis than by the necessary action. We also need a strengthened Norwegian response to the climate in the international field. That is why we are proposing a budget that will give more than 1 billion. more to international climate work, climate adaptation, combating environmental crime and increasing the focus on renewable energy. The approach we are proposing for aid and development also contains a clear new priority in terms of the fight against inequality, a dimension of development policy which has become less apparent under the civil government. The inequalities in the world around us are huge, 50 pst. Of the total economic growth since 1980, the 1 pst has fallen. The richest. While the elite can put their money in tax havens, the poorest countries are cheated for large incomes. That is why we need a development policy that puts more emphasis on enabling poor countries to build themselves up. Although there are often fine contributions from the right-hand side about that, we lack a policy that facilitates it in the budgets and priorities of the civil government. It is about prioritising work against debt traps, about prioritising work on tax havens, about placing even stronger emphasis on cooperation as a tax for development, and it is about supporting the work of the ILO for a more regulated working life. So there's a close relationship between equality and equality. We have the fight against Trump's oral curve rule, and the attempts on the right side of the United States to press their reactionary values and women's views on the rest of the world must help to counteract Norway. That is why we are proposing increased female aid in our budget. We're in danger of our neighbourhoods becoming, to a greater or lesser extent, an arena for major power confrontations. That is why we need a strong national defence to assert our own sovereignty and to contribute to what must be the main objective of Norwegian security policy, namely low tension in the high north. Then it's the wrong direction for Norway to become more dependent on the United States. We're against having the US Marines stationed on Norwegian soil, we're against continuing to contribute to American wars abroad. Instead, we are proposing a budget line that will make a clear commitment to the defence of the sea and the defence of the country. Then we have to prioritize it. It also means refusing to order the last six fighter aeroplanes at a time when the uncertainty about costs is higher and stronger than ever. With that, I would like to address the proposal that SV is alone about in the setting of case no. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1873	The representative of the Audun Lighthouse has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1878	Today, we are to debate and adopt a budget that reinforces the important international poverty response, with a development budget delivering 1 pst. of GNI. But more importantly, we are strengthening the efforts of the poorest of the poor – especially in sub-Saharan Africa. And as many people have been concerned about here, at a time when we have great challenges with the climate in the world, we also prioritise it. It is a strong increase also in humanitarian aid. Self with an increase of about 60 pst. from 2013, we know that we are far from meeting the real need. But we are increasing, and we are increasing as the need increases. We also continue the strong commitment to education in the field of aid, precisely because we know that education is a very effective and good aid. It gives people hope and opportunity. In the field of defence, today we have a budget that is in line with the long-term plan. It is important, and now that we are working on the new long-term plan, it is very important that we also do this in the future. In the framework and the budgets we promise the defence, we have to keep up with a situation where the security situation is more demanding than in the long run. That is why this budget is a good example of how it should be delivered. With the Christian People's Party in government, we are intensifying the fight against modern slavery, both nationally and internationally. Modern slavery includes, inter alia: trafficking in human beings, forced labour, indebtedness and gross child labour. According to the Global Slavery Index, about 40,3 million victims of modern slavery today. Children and women make seven out of ten victims. Poverty, conflict, climate change, corruption and migration are key drivers. Earlier this summer, the organisation Walk Free published a list of the ten countries that do most of the work in the fight against modern slavery. Norway was not included in this list. It has to change, so let's take care of it. That is why we have to put in place our own anti-slavery law, and with this budget we have an own assistance program for the suppression of modern slavery. In the fight against today's slavery, our attention will be directed to the most vulnerable and marginalized groups. With the decisions we make today, we take an important step, and I have to give honor to the Council of State Ulstein for the milestone he is securing today. Democracy is worth fighting for, our own, but also internationally. When we want to promote democracy as a form of governance, it's not just because we know the dark sides of dictatorship and authoritarian regime. Democracy has proved to be the form of governance that ensures the best distribution of political rights, promotes peace, human rights, development and the strongest challenge of corruption. For decades the number of democratic states has increased in many parts of the world, but in recent years democracy has come under pressure. Authoritarian leaders undermine the leadership of democracy, social media are abused to spread lies and false news, and people lose confidence in political institutions. Therefore, the Christian People's Party wants Norway to strengthen its efforts for international democratic assistance. It is also important to ensure resilience targets 16 on ‘peaceful and inclusive societies’ providing ‘legal protection for all’. We see that authoritarian regimes undermine the rule of law, which is important both for the individual and for a truly functioning democracy. Our neighbours in the Nordic region have focused heavily on democratic support in recent years. That is good, because we cannot take for granted that democracy development automatically comes as a by-product of economic and social development. That is why the Christian People's Party believes that the support of democracy must be strengthened in Norwegian foreign policy and in development cooperation. It will strengthen the ownership of each country for its own development decisions. Together with Nordic neighbours, we should strengthen assistance to ‘democracy for development’ and actively share our experience, as Norway does through ‘Tax for development’ and ‘oil for development’. I'm slipping over the broad gulf just this perspective was given from the party in Stortinget today. In the setting, all parties represent a strengthening of the support for democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1898	After Trump came to power in the United States, the prospects for a peaceful and fair solution for the Middle East and the Palestinian people have become worse. Trump has, among other things: moved the U.S. Embassy to Jerusalem and given support to non-national Israeli settlements on occupied land. This has met massive condemnation from large parts of the world. In such a situation, Norway must stand up for international law, for international law protecting the small from the abuses of the large and powerful, which Norway relies on to be respected. Instead, the Israeli occupying power is rewarded with more cooperation with Norway despite massive violations of international law. In today's proposal, the government announces that Norwegian budgetary resources can be used to exert political pressure on those working in Palestinian areas. For it is stated in the proposition as follows: ‘It is not in line with Norwegian policy to support organisations which have expressed the main objective of promoting the BDS campaign [[Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions]] Unfortunately, the government follows in the footsteps of the President of the United States and the Israeli State, for this affects the freedom of expression of important parts of civil society fighting for human rights and for international law by peaceful means. It has long been an objective of Norwegian policy to work for the recognition of Palestine as an independent country. In July this year, the number of countries recognising Palestine was 138, but unfortunately Norway is not among them. Delaying the recognition of Palestine does not make any progress in the negotiations, as the government may think. On the contrary, it is used by Israel to ignore international law and also relevant UN resolutions. In our view, Norway should become among the countries of the world that are now behind Palestine as an independent state and fully recognise it. We will also vote against the government's budget proposal today because of the government's proposal to spend around 8 billion. NOK to buy and operate even more F-35 fighter aircraft. These planes are well adapted to participation in international operations under the leadership of the United States, but the cost picture makes the rest of the Defense suffer from it for decades to come. We will therefore support the SV's proposal to refuse to purchase more fighter aircraft. We go further in our draft budget by stopping the purchase of fighter aircraft and cutting the appropriations for US and NATO-led warfare and missions abroad. We will also cut the subsidies to the US military bases in Norway. These give increased tension and less security. We would rather spend the money on strengthening Norway's independent defence capabilities, including: by significantly increasing the appropriations allocated to the Army and the Home Office, and also by strengthening the conditions of trustees, employees and guardians of the Defence. In addition, we are promoting three own proposals on the matter: firstly, to stop the pressure on those who support BDS measures against the violation of Israel's international law, secondly, to recognise Palestine as a separate country and, thirdly, to ensure that return agreements for rejected asylum seekers and others are not a condition for receiving Norwegian assistance. It should be obvious that it should not be necessary to propose that aid is not used as a means of pressurising immigration policy, but given today's government it is unfortunately necessary. The platform opens up the possibility and condition of return agreements as a condition for assistance, and several ministers from the Progress Party have made this right. This has caused concern among others. Save the children, who warn against allowing immigration policy considerations to lead the way. It is a mixture that we agree is totally wrong and that should be stopped during the budgetary procedure in Stortinget. I'll bring it up to Red's three loose proposals for the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1918	The representative Bears Moxnes has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1923	Nor does tradition always go peacefully apart in December, nor in international politics. Yesterday we experienced what we expected for a while, namely that the appeal body of the World Trade Organisation stopped working because the United States refused to appoint new judges. This does not mean that the WTO has ceased to function, but that means that a substantial part of what the WTO involves, namely a binding dispute resolution, has now ceased to function. Norway, as the Committee is well aware, is actively involved in both reforming and strengthening the WTO along many axes. But this is a development that also carries far greater questions and challenges than just the appeal body. It carries a lot of the major activization we see more and more of, and as I think we're going to discuss in Stortinget also in the year we have ahead of us. The year we're going into and to which the budget applies also has a lot of challenging events that we already know about. One is that we're going into a NPT supervisory conference, the non-proliferation agreement. It's an agreement that's unusually important, but at the same time we know that there are strong tensions. The question is what we can do at that supervisory conference. It's also a year that's important to Norway because we're on the board of directors of the IAEA. That work is a high priority from the Norwegian side. We know from the last UN humanitarian appeal, launched on 3 December, that there is now a record high number of people in need of humanitarian assistance. The estimates are 167.6 million people. It is also one of the main reasons why we are further increasing the humanitarian budget for 2020. It is now up to approx. 5.5 B.C.E. kr. Since 2013, the humanitarian budget has increased by 68 pst. Unfortunately, it conceals a great and tragic reality, that needs are increasing and increasing, and that international society has challenges to keep pace with development. There is an important reason why, in the humanitarian strategy presented last year, we also point to the need for innovation, namely to reach more people in a better way. Part of our humanitarian work is also about supporting measures to prevent and prevent sexual and gender-based violence in humanitarian crises. It's a big and growing problem. We've announced from the Norwegian side that we're going to spend 1 billion dollars. kr in the next few years. It is important because it is a problem that is becoming increasingly widespread, and where we see the challenges manifest long after a conflict is over. We have also proposed in the draft budget a significant strengthening of the stabilisation of countries in crisis and conflict. This is particularly true for countries that have accepted many refugees from neighbouring countries, and it is a challenge to cope with it in the context of the poverty of host communities as well. This is also an opportunity that lies a little between providing humanitarian aid and providing long-term assistance. We are also giving increased support to the work on human rights. Unfortunately, it is also an area where we see the needs increase. This does not apply only to countries that are far away from us. This also applies to countries that are close to us, both geographically and in other ways, where we can contribute to strengthening the work on human rights through both funds to our neighbourhoods and other means. It is important for the government to continue a predictable and stable north-eastern policy. The northern regions are our most important strategic responsibility. There is also a background for the government to set up a new Northern Region Communication next autumn, i.e. in the autumn of 2020. Our neighbourhood with Russia is a defining factor in Norwegian foreign and security policy. It's traditionally been, and it's also going to be in the future. What we do in the north areas has a significant impact on how we, on our part, and together with allies, are able to maintain the Arctic as a peaceful and stable region in which international law is observed.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1942	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1947	Bethlehem is far south. Nevertheless, the same principles of what you learn at school should apply there as here. What you learn in history books should be true, and what you learn about people should be that you learn to respect them, and not to hate them. I am therefore pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has a dialogue with the Palestinian self-government authorities on the content of the syllabus. Of course, it is also very gratifying that many of the examples we have heard in the Chamber today have already been removed, and that Norway has been actively involved in the discussions and preparations for the studies carried out by the Georg-Eckert-Institut as a basis for improving the syllabus. The Minister of Foreign Affairs has clearly informed the Stortinget that Norwegian support for Palestine does not go to the development or printing of the school curriculum. That is why I wonder: how does the Minister for Foreign Affairs read the comment from the majority that we should now reduce or withhold the support of Palestinian self-government authorities, all the time it is not given?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1954	Firstly, the government is very clear that we are taking a strong distance from any expression of antisemitism, and that underlies all our policies. We are also very concerned that the work we have done with other donors towards Palestinian self-government authorities on both the question of prison pay and the question of school syllabus is a work that has been both important and will continue. I very much agree with the representative Jette Christensen on the point she raises, namely that the independent review that is to be done now is important. Although Norway does not support the curriculum or the printing of school books, it is important for us that there is nevertheless a need to clean up. Therefore, it is also important for us to signal to Palestinian self-government authorities that our general support depends on changes and improvements in these areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1959	Since our support does not go to the syllabus, which part of the support is it that you can expect to be cut? Is that the support we provide for the training of teachers, including the training of ethics, human rights and non-violence, that we can imagine will be cut or withheld as a result of this remark that is going to be adopted today?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1964	First of all, I think it's important to do things in the right order. As the comment also says, both the majority of the Storing and the government want to wait until this review has actually happened, and use it as a basis for further follow-up. We want to be a consistent and stable partner and also give to the Palestinian self-government authorities, but at the same time we have to make demands in areas where we and other donors find that a practice is not acceptable. We have done so on the question of prison pay, and we have also repeatedly received assurances from the self-government authorities that Norwegian funds do not go to prison pay. But it does not prevent us from continuing to work for that system to end, because we believe that it is an unacceptable system. It's the same way we think about school syllabus.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1971	The Council of State said in its speech that more and more people need humanitarian aid. There is a difficult situation for many, and I would like to highlight the situation of migrants in Greece, where Norwegian media in the fall have also written about a very difficult humanitarian situation. There is still growth in the number of boats with refugees from Turkey. It's been a whole year – up to 50,000 people have come the seaway from Turkey to Greece. On November 20, ABC News wrote that an assessor of detention camps in Greece. Norway uses large funds through the EEA Agreement. In this year, one has not been able to use the funds that one had intended to spend on different projects, whether it was one or the other. Not all that are equally active. Wouldn't it be better to use the funds on those who really need it, for example. refugees in Greece?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1980	Norway also uses EEA funds to assist those countries with the largest receptions of migrants. We've done that over time, and we're going to keep doing that. These include: in order to improve the ability of countries to deal with this throughout the range from registering to providing a better range of services. In addition, we support a large number of organisations working in the area, in particular UN organisations and others. From the Norwegian side, we are concerned that the help and support we can provide, among other things. The EEA funds are important, and we also get very clear feedback from the countries with which we work, that these are important means of enabling them to manage what is a migration stream that goes up and down a little. Now it's taller than it's been for a while. It also means that needs may increase.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1985	I thank you for your answer. The government has a huge promise of many billion in EEA funds – 4.5 billion. kr has been proposed. In the past, both from the National Audit Office and from the European Commission, criticism has been raised of the way in which the contributions have been spent, and of their actual contribution to cushioning. The High Commissioner for Refugees is missing funds. There are also major humanitarian crises in Europe today due to migration. When we have now submitted from the government that an actual permissions are approx. 700 million. kr that is not used in EEA funds, it would not be better, when so much is needed, to re-prioritize them than to go to, for example. the day or church bells, which we know these funds have gone into?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e1993	Here it was a lot at once. Firstly, in its 2013 report, the National Audit Office concluded that the EEA funds actually contribute to the construction of society and democracy in Europe. It also creates meeting places and cooperation for Norway to an extent that would otherwise not be possible. Over the past 25 years, we have also seen a good deal of how the funds have been used and what they are used for. Of course, we have also had a lot of information about that in the course of the year that has passed. But among those things are, among other things, youth unemployment an important point. It's climate programs. It supports civil society and efforts to combat organised crime. Through the increase we have had in our humanitarian budget over several years, we have contributed to many of the organisations that assist migrants also in Europe, and I think it is important to bear in mind that the core allocation, such as this. goes to the UN High Commissioner for Refugees and Others, also filled in by earmarked means of assistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2000	I would also like to follow up on the matter of the majority's comment on possible cuts in assistance to Palestinian self-government authorities. SV is very clear on, as we also stand with the whole Storting about in the setting, our hard-hitting criticism of the content of Palestinian teaching materials that have emerged that promote anti-Semitic thought and hate, and we are very clear in our demand that this needs to be changed. It is also worth adding that it does not in any way serve the cause of the Palestinians to produce themselves in this way. However, we fear the consequences of what the majority has agreed to, because one of the most important things to give an opportunity for more democratic development, state building, etc. is the dialogue to which Norwegian aid means give Norway the opportunity. That is why I call for a clearer response from the Minister for Foreign Affairs on how that majority has now written to be implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2015	Firstly, Norway has a very good and I would like to say clear dialogue with Palestinian self-government authorities. We have traditionally had that for many years. An example of that dialogue was when President Abbas was here in September, and this was an important part of our discussions – both prison pay and syllabus – in which they also presented the actions they have taken internally to address what is left of challenges, especially in terms of pensions. I do not think we should underestimate the fact that we, together with other donors, play a very important role when we have that dialogue. One of the reasons we can have that dialogue, and that we can have influence, is that we are a long-term and stable partner over time. It's not just about economics, but it's also about giving clear messages when things are not as they should be. If we experience that this is e.g. corruption, of course, is something we take up and expect to end, in the same way as the prison pay system and in the same way as the parts of the syllabus that promote antisemitism.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2022	That's good, and I feel that what the Foreign Minister is saying is that you also have that dialogue, put this pressure, and that there's reason to hope that development is in the right direction. Therefore, it is a little difficult to understand the majority’s need to come now and give a clear signal of relief. But I hear what the Foreign Minister says, I agree with that, and we are strong in order for the pressure on this with the teaching materials to continue. Then I want to ask the Foreign Minister to comment on another thing, because the spokesman for the second largest government party was in his post here instead with an analysis that, in my view, turns the world upside down, and where the foremost obstacle to peace in the Middle East in recent years is being produced to be the Palestinian self-government authorities. For most of the others, it looks as if there are developments in Israeli policy that must be said to be at least a major cause. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs agree with Mr Tybring-Gjedde in his analysis?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2029	Norway has been involved in a state-building project for the Palestinians for very many years now, but we have also been involved in a good dialogue and a good bilateral relationship with Israel. This does not prevent us from making demands on both sides, nor does it criticise what we consider to be illegal or unlucky. If we are to achieve a lasting peace settlement in the Middle East, we depend on getting a negotiated two-state solution. This means that all the outstanding final status issues need to be resolved through negotiations and not unilateral declarations or actions. We have been promoting that message for many years. We're going to continue to do that, and we're going to do it, among other things. through the role we have as head of the donor country group AHLC. It is just now the only format where Israelis, Palestinians, Americans, the EU, other donors and the UN sit together around the same table and try to find practical solutions to challenges such as: We are also talking about the political aspects of a two-state solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2036	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2041	We in this Chamber certainly agree that Norway is a privileged country in the world. Of course, it's by no means come of itself. It's about the people's work and efforts combined with willingness to join together. But in our context, in this debate, we must highlight democracy and international cooperation, which are also of great importance for Norway to be a good and forward-looking country. Norway has been actively involved in the construction of international legal systems and organisations throughout the post-war period. NATO membership and the EEA Agreement are the carriers. We can all say, I think, that this has served Norway, and that has served the people's interests very much. We're talking about the Western world as a collective concept. We are talking about the Western culture, which we believe has been the bearer community of value in this policy. What has it been about, also in the international context? Yes, it has been about freedom, international solidarity, democracy, human rights and now, of course, the sustainable economy and the fight for climate change. Without prejudice to the representative Tybring-Gjedde and what he stands for – which I am not quite sure if the Progress Party stands for, but he now stands here and says so – I think there is quite a broad consensus on this in the Norwegian big business and in the Norwegian population. I hear, for example. on the post of the representative Tetzschner, who says – in other words – about exactly what I have now said. Why have I said this, which in itself is a matter of course? Well, to say what is pointed out – indirectly – by others: now this community can be tested. And who's doing that? Is there pressure from the outside? No, it's the American foreign policy, run by President Donald Trump, who's testing this. All major international agreements are being concluded, and now – as the Minister for Foreign Affairs pointed out quite correctly – the effectiveness of the WTO is stopped. What are we facing in foreign policy here? I'm very scared of it, and I'm sorry about it, because the Americans have actually been the ones who have been the guarantors of these values. So now they're going to be added to it. Then there's a question about how we're going to put ourselves in such a situation. That's really the absolutely most important question. Well, we have to say even more clearly from now on. It's not so often in these contexts that I disagree with the representatives of SV, but taking greater distance from the Americans think I can be very difficult. But in these areas, we have to say clearly from now on, we have to make it clear that this is an unacceptable development. The Americans must be clearly informed, including from the Norwegian Grand Prix, that this is a line that will undermine the Western community in such a way that it can lose its power and thus damage Norway. We've had the same community connected to the Defence that we've had on the line of foreign policy, really. The working party has been the guarantor of the strong defence. We see today that we are presenting a defence budget of 378 million. It is stronger than that of the government, and we have made the necessary comparisons. So we feel that this budgetary procedure is trying to get away from the decisions on which the conciliation is based. Now it remains to be heard what the Minister of Defence says about this in this debate. I'm anxious to wait for it, and I'll come back to it badly when I've heard the Minister of Defense's comments. It is absolutely necessary that we stick to the settlement culture of defence policy if we are to manage to maintain national consensus and a strong enough defence, and the government must not challenge this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2052	The State budget that we are to adopt today serves Norwegian interests and is in the interests of Norway. The world around us is changing rapidly, and relations we have taken for granted so far must be defended again. It is this government and the four government parties that will take care of the state budget for 2020. At a time when the world is changing rapidly, the government is a guarantor of Norwegian position in important international federations. We are doing this by ensuring that Norway has a place at the table in key international organisations and decision-making forums, and by being strong defenders of international cooperation. Important initiatives in the foreign policy budget are the campaign for Norwegian membership of the UN Security Council, the Presidency of the Barents Council and environmental cooperation with Russia, to mention something. It is obvious that our four parties are more alone than in the past in maintaining important relations for Norway’s security, recognition and interest. We no longer feel that the Workers' Party is on our side in the same way as before in these questions, and we also see a Center Party that is increasingly drawing into populism on international issues. The Community shall be tested here at home. Relations are global up against the UN system, but also security policy, such as NATO, and regional against the EU and Europe. Especially in the case of the latter two, we see that the government is more alone than before. In the opinion of the Committee, both the Central Party and the SV, in the form of a note, welcome the Treaty of Prohibition against Nuclear Weapons, despite the fact that NATO has warned against it, despite the fact that no other NATO country has taken the initiative to sign the Treaty, and despite the fact that our own committee has, at the latest, dealt with the investigation which concludes that the Treaty is incompatible with the obligations of the Alliance. It is also striking how the EEA resistance is clearer than before in the opposition. This is a resistance without sound in the Norwegian population and the Norwegian business community, which, on the contrary, sees the value of the Norwegian Europe connection through the EEA. Although the changes we see in the world around us, so far have not affected the Norwegian economy, it is important for the government to pursue an active foreign policy that ensures Norwegian interests, Norwegian economy and Norwegian jobs. The government proposes to grant $4.5 billion. SEK in 2020 for the follow-up to Norway’s already concluded agreement with the EU on EEA funds, an increase of SEK 1.7 billion. kr from 2019. The EEA funds are Norway’s contribution to social and economic cohesion in the European Economic Area, and support shall also strengthen the link and cooperation between Norway and the beneficiary countries. It is planned for about 27 pst. the funds will go to innovation, research and education, while some 19 pst. go to planned projects in civil society, good governance, fundamental rights and culture. The centre party wishes to implement radical cuts in the EEA funds. These are already commitments. Faced with the fact that the Workers' Party also wants to cut off these commitments, this alerts a major change in our foreign policy from the opposition. The draft budget also represents an increased research effort on the theme of change in Asia and on euro-political research. Overall, these investments will increase by 10 million. kr. This strengthening is important. Europe is marked by major changes, and we are well served to update knowledge and understanding of the changes we see and how they will affect Norway. There are also important areas of action in development policy. The next year’s government budget follows up Norway’s commitment to support work against harmful customs with 190 million. kr in the year up to and including 2023. Through the UN Sustainable Development Goals, Norway and the rest of the global community have committed themselves to abolishing harmful practices by 2030. These are important actions and initiatives to which Norway should make a good contribution. This is a very important work, and we cannot accept that almost 33 000 girls are married away every day, that girls are subjected to sexual mutilation, and that preferences for sons lead to killing girls. We have to stand together in this work, and I am glad that the government shows the willingness to commit – but not only that: also to give priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2075	Defence of the country is the country's second most important task. The Progress Party is committed to the Norwegian security and defence policy’s aim is to ensure Norway’s sovereignty, territorial integrity and political freedom of action. The basic rationale of defence is to have a deterrent effect on potential attackers and to defend Norway and allies against external threats, estimates and attacks. The foundation of Norway’s security is NATO. Norway must have a modern defence that is part of a strong and credible alliance. This will have a deterrent effect and reduce the likelihood that we will get into a situation where the security of Norway or allies is challenged and must be defended with military power. Defence plays an important role in society's overall preparedness, just as society is essential for the defence to function in crisis or war. The Progress Party is concerned that the total defence, the total capacity of society to solve its tasks in crisis and war, must be addressed so that there is better and wider cooperation with the civil sectors and defence. Closer cooperation with civil and private actors needs to be strengthened where appropriate. This will be crucial to seeing all the resources of society as a whole in order to achieve adequate preparedness. This government has strengthened the defense every year since 2013. We've now put the base wall in the defense. The maintenance and spare part situation has improved significantly, the amount of training and exercise has increased, the crews have improved, the departments have improved and have more up-to-date material than before – many heavy investments are in the current long-term plan. With the 2020 defence budget, which is over 60 billion. kr, the government is following up both the long-term plan and the decision of the Storting to increase the ambitions of land power in addition to the economic planning conditions for the long-term plan. The government's draft budget continues to facilitate the long-term and sustainable development of the defence structure, with a real balance between tasks, structure and economy. The proposed budget will increase investment in new material, establishment and operation of the hunting company at the Garrison in South Varanger, the establishment of combat air protection and the strengthening of the operations in the Army. Furthermore, the activity is increased by the phase-in of new F-35 fighter aeroplanes and NH90 helicopters. The government also continues the important work on the basic protection of defence sector shielding objects. This budget helps to provide a good basis for progress in the development of defence in the forthcoming new long-term plan. Then the Progress Party also has a expectation of a much faster strengthening of the Defence, in line with the good advice given by the Defence Chief. In this way, the Progress Party is impatient. Every day 33,000 girls get married away. Over 200 million girls and women living today have been sexually mutilated. In many places girls are killed because their parents rather want a boy. This happens in cultures that attribute a lower value to women than men, and that therefore gives men the right to rule over women. This cannot be relativised away, but must be controlled. I am therefore proud that the government takes a leading role internationally in combating these harmful customs. That's set at 190 million. NOK in the year until 2023 for this work. The work against harmful customs will not succeed without strong players in the voluntary society as well. Important and long-term change is achieved only when the change occurs from the inside. Therefore, it is important to engage in influence work with and for young people working on changes in attitudes and challenging patriarchal power structures in grassroots areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2094	With the 2020 draft budget, the government has added over 8 billion. kr in total for the period 2017-2020 – in line with the financial assumptions we presented in Prop. 151 S for 2015–2016 in 2016, the long-term plan. In addition, during this period, the government financed the Land Powers Agreement in Stortinget in the autumn of 2017, increased military contributions in international operations, forced the acquisition of new coastguard vessels and post-occurrence measures with KNM Helge Ingstad. The long-term plan provides for a large-scale renewal and development of structure. The base structure is being developed, new material in all defenses and Home Protection is being introduced, while the old material is being phased out. Total efforts in the last few years, including: increasing the activity and strengthening of the core wall, making our operational forces more accessible and able to exercise more with functioning materials. Then not everything is rosy. There are delays in several deliveries. In some areas, operations are becoming more expensive than planned and, unfortunately, currency and fuel prices do not adapt to our budgets. For 2020, the government proposes to increase the defence budget nominally by over 2.1 billion. kr, and the budget is now close to 61 billion. kr. It's complicated and it's made up of a lot of factors, both plus and minuses. But the fact is, we've added 2.4 billion. kr in fresh funds for measures in the long-term plan, in line with the assumptions of the plan. These are real increases that help to strengthen defence. In addition, for 2020, we have added 17.2 million. SEK to share helicopter solution on Rygge and Bardufoss and 105 million. kr. to measures following the frigatethavary. The government continues to strengthen military presence, availability and preparedness. For the Army, the reinforcement goes to the establishment and operation of new fighting air protection, more ammunition for training and practice and more spare parts for the tanks. We continue to set up new departments in Finnmark. The level of activity in the intelligence battalion is increased, and the artillery battalion is built up and receives combat air protection and new artillery. The government continues the high level of exercise and training of the Home Office and continues the renewal of personal clothing. The defense of the sea builds up a fifth crew for the frigates and establishes an eighth crew for the outer coastguard. The Air Force continues the phase-in of F-35 fighter aeroplanes and new helicopters and prepares the transition to and the reception of new P-8 maritime patrol aeroplanes from 2022. For 2020, about 70 pst. of the long-term escalation of investment in strategic capacities, including new submarines, new maritime patrol aircraft and a new artillery system to the Army. There are also major investment projects in infrastructure for defence across the country, of which projects in Ørland, Evenes, Værnes and Haakonsvern have the largest expenditure in 2020. One thing that has received a lot of attention in the autumn is the turbulence case at Evenes. I am aware that Avinor and Defence Construction have now jointly found a comprehensive and forward-looking solution for the location of the new hangar for our maritime patrol aircraft on Evenes. The turbulence challenges therefore appear to be solved. I want to come back to Stortinget in the New Year with further information about the project for hangars for our new maritime patrol aircraft. The new fighter aircraft acquisition is on track. In the draft budget, the Government requests authorisation for the acquisition of the last six fighter aeroplanes. I am pleased that a broad majority on the Stortinget supports this. The last calculations show that the purchase of fighting aircraft has an expected cost within the cost framework set by the Storting in 2012. The dollar price has given us higher expenses, but at the same time the unit price per plane has been significantly lower. In October, I received the Professional Military Council from the Defence Manager, which is a very important input into the work on the next long-term plan. The advice we have received is now to be dealt with politically, and there will be many considerations and contexts to be assessed in government and then by the Storing. Then, finally, to the debate on the settlement: the Land Power Proposition was discussed in Stortinget, and we took it on with four proposals: we were to provide a cost estimate for a fully-designed 2nd Battalion. We've delivered that. We were to deliver an assessment of the lease or rental of tanks. It was not assessed possible. We were supposed to implement a quality reform in Heimevernet. It's delivered, it's very much in agreement. And we were going to get a split helicopter solution between Bardufoss and Rygge that served both the Army and the Special Forces. We've also delivered on that. So in addition, we've got a majority in Stortingen that these solutions are accepted. I fully agree that conciliation in the major issues of defence and security policy is important. But a settlement also means working out a common understanding of the kind of decisions you take. We should train that trust a little bit in this house.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2135	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2140	I hear the Minister of Defence's experimental explanation of this which has become a topic in the debate. I can't remember, for my part, that a government has at any time tried to get away from what has been at the heart of this equation, because that's what you're actually trying to do with this way of reasoning. I would like to remind the Minister of Defence, before we go further in this change of line, that the Control Committee has unanimously said that this is a breach of the necessary practice and follow-up of the request decisions. We're now going to have a deepening of this. I assume that the Minister of Defense will repeat what he just said, but the point is that there are significant elements of the settlement that are now being broken, and they are trying to repeal these request decisions through the suspension that exists. I ask again the question: why do the government and government parties do this, once such a settlement has been concluded?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2145	The government is not trying to do this. We have reached a settlement, the four decisions that we agreed on when we left here after the debate on the land-use settlement that autumn, we have responded. We have received a majority of the solutions we have provided through treatment in Stortinget. It is not that we are now suspending the decision to buy new tanks. No, what the decision says, what the work is going on, and we're going to deliver to Stortinget when that process is over. It's not like it's said that we're stopping the projects in the long-term plan we're doing. No, those projects go on. In the case of 2nd Battalion, it shall stand as it has been established in the last years and, with the current decision, shall, where appropriate, be reduced to 2021. So we know – it's no doubt known – that we're going to deal with a long-term plan in Stortinget early next year. Then we will also assess the structural elements that come into it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2150	The decisions taken are very clear. We ask the government to present a separate case concerning modern tank capacity and a case concerning the rental or leasing of tanks. It's not done, and that's what's at the heart of the matter here. The same thing applies to the 2nd battalion. You can't do anything about this without an explicit decision in Stortinget. That's what the Control Committee says. It's these things the Labour Party has fought for, and the government is now trying to spin around. I hear the technical arguments of the Council of State, but that is the reality of the matter. That is why we are dealing with this, because we believe that this is a breach of the sensible political and parliamentary understanding we have had when we enter into conciliation on such major issues as this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2155	I fundamentally disagree with the representative, simply because the decision that we should have a new tank capacity stands. We're working on it, and we're going to file it as a matter for the Stortinget. 2. Battalion is set up, as it has been set up in recent years. The decision that it should possibly be taken down in 2021 says, but it's not like we've started taking down the 2nd battalion. So the 2nd battalion is now set up as it should be set up, by 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2160	However, the following remains: that decision has not been presented, but there is now a vote, a majority vote behind the party of the Council of State, to repeal this decision. At the end of the day, this Decision shall no longer apply. Then the government has taken the whole matter out of the agreement, and that's what I'm pointing out. For that is what is in the vote and for which the party of the Council of State has been involved in the treatment of the State budget. It also applies to the second point. So that's what's real. During this day the conciliation no longer applies at these points, because the majority here, with the active involvement of the government, as I now hear the Council of State, wants these things to go away, and he has no obligation after the vote has taken place later today. It is very regrettable and breaks with the entire parliamentary settlement culture in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2165	No, that's not what's real. The four request decisions – we believe we have delivered on those decisions – are still pending, which have not been delivered by the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, but the majority now say that we have delivered on them. We have delivered on the estimate of the cost of the 2nd Battalion – that was the one proposal. We've delivered on a split helicopter solution – that's the other one. We have delivered the quality reform to Heimevernet – that was the third. And we have delivered to assess the leasing or rental of tanks. With the decision of the Land Power Proposition, we decided that we should invest in new tanks, simply because an upgrade program of old tanks would not give us the wagons that had the operational capacity we needed or that gave it the protection to the personnel that we need today because of new, dangerous ammunition. So we deliver capacity on what's in the plan, and the request decisions that were there after the land-use proposition have been answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2170	It's nice to have the right government and the Labour Party argue about what they've actually agreed. It's a little surprising that one doesn't take the time to get into, discuss and figure out what they've actually agreed. It would have been good for us others in the Storting who are also trying to hang out on the swings. My question shall not rip it up any more. I would like to refer to the Chief of Defense's professional military recommendation from October of this year, which says that Norwegian defence is too small, and that response time and endurance can be significantly strengthened, not least with personnel. The Central Party is in agreement with the Chief of Defense, we will strengthen both the Army, the Home Guard and the other capabilities. Since the land power has been so clearly deprived by the government, how can the government defend an additional weakening of the Army by actually putting down the 2nd Battalion, which is now expected to be carried out from 2021?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2179	So now we are discussing the 2020 budget. Then the 2nd battalion continues with the setup it has and has had for slow times. So we've been open that since we decided the long-term plan we're in now, until now, the increased activity in our environment and the increased activity the defense must have implemented, has given us challenges professionally. We took that into account in the defence chief's mandate when he was going to prepare professional military advice, and we are taking it into the knowledge base of the work we are going to do in a new long-term plan, which we are going to deliver to the Stortinget over Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2184	It's not that one shouldn't have looked at a little more places than just down in that budget a decision today. It is interesting to think about what the government says about the road further. There is no doubt that the Army is underfunded, and that the necessary investments made by an aggregate increase – and also proposed by the Centre in the annual budgets – have not yet started. In the previous ageing period, the Army received only about half of the investment funds that were planned to receive. We know that the defense needs volume increase, but without working tanks, without working helicopter and without having enough soldiers, there will soon be more allied soldiers in Inner Troms than it is Norwegian. There's quite a stir around it locally. There are several people who have made contact with us about this. Does the Minister of Defence think that as big a lack as they are – when there is absolutely essential government – is defendable in the security policy situation that we are now in, when we need to build up our defence?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2191	First of all, I do not remember in the description the representative has of the Army, our country power. We build up in Finnmark, we increase in Home Protection, we have our own recruitment school to fill up the crew and personnel for Home Protection – just because the scheme we had earlier, didn't provide enough personnel for it. We deliver new equipment to the Army both in Inner Troms and in the North. We are developing the country power with longer first-time service just to make better use of people as we have taught them. We're going to move the recruiting school out of the battalions to keep them operational throughout the year. We build a land power that is now capable of being clear much, much earlier than it was before. It's not like we're building down, we're building up just because it's necessary in the security situation we're in now.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2197	After last year's budgetary procedure, the defence minister was taken to the peach to deliver what we thought was very unclear information about the cost of the new fighter aircraft. The government went from talking about the governance framework and governance objectives to talking about the cost framework, and now we know that the planes are becoming so expensive that not only are we not prepared to achieve the governance goal – the cost framework itself can go. Thus, much more money, the so-called uncertainty reserve, must be spent on the aeroplanes. So when the Minister of Defense here says that the fighter flight purchase is on the way, it's wrong. The aircraft is expected to be far more expensive than intended, and the decision that will now be made to purchase six new aircraft is not funded. Therefore, my question – and I'm going to ask you that every time I have an opportunity – is, first of all, that the new information now relates to how we deal with the cost framework? Secondly, where should this money be taken from – within the defence budget or elsewhere?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2202	There is one single reason why I appeared unclear in the questions and debate about F-35 last year, and that was that the representative Lysbakken had not read the papers we had sent to Stortinget. It was a debate based on the fact that a journalist in Bergen's Official Journal had sat down and read all the documents that had been delivered to Stortinget, and there was total confusion in the opposition about what really stood there. It's a currency challenge. We're completely open to that. I also had that in my post. At the same time, the fighter aircraft program is going very well. We've taken down the price of the planes. It's like today that an F-35 is cheaper – like buying a new F-16. That's how successful the fighter aircraft program has been. When in 2012 – with a government Lightbakken was part of – the fighter aircraft program was presented, this calculation model was chosen in currency. The currency issue is two-fold. One is that an export-oriented business that Norway has is making very good use of a weak crown. We're getting big incomes. At the same time, it is expensive to do something from abroad. But we're within the cost framework set, and we report regularly to the Storing about the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2209	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2214	The State budget for 2020 applies to the last year of the current long-term perspective period. Then it is appropriate to take a small summary. Step by step, the defense is being built up, and what distinguishes this four-year period from many previous four-year periods is that the plan we have put forward has actually been financed. As a result, the defence is now being built after many years of degradation. In 2013, the government took over a defense on the rim. Former Minister of Defence Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide and Chief of Defense Haakon Bruun-Hanssen launched a total review of the Defence. The result was discouraging. There was an unpaid bill of $180 billion. kr without any plan to settle. It was a very demanding challenge to take over the defence of such a constitution. Priority was required, and priority was given to the capabilities, weapon systems and vessels that enable us to perform our role as NATO in the north in a good way. In addition, the Army has also been strengthened. The army is getting a new artillery, the army is getting a new anti-aircraft, and the army is also getting equipment for electronic countermeasures. In order to improve the ability of the nation of Norway to understand what is happening in our neighbourhoods, and to have a basis for making correct and good decisions, the Intelligence Service has also doubled its budget. The government has increased the defence budget by 30 pst., i.e. from approx. 40 B.C.E. SEK in 2013 to 61 billion. in 2020. Now the results also report. If you go into the Chief of Defense's annual reports, you will see that the operational capacity has improved, and the Chief of Defence also writes in his technical advice that the current action plan has led to a better defence in a number of fields now and that it will be further improved as budgets increase. The 2020 Defence Budget has increased by 2 billion. kr. We put the defense in place, the foundation wall is put in place, and the material investment is 27 p.m., which is significantly higher than what NATO requires. I have to say that the Workers' Party's alternative budget is a foible of broken promises. There is also a total lack of follow-up to the criticisms made against the government in connection with the agricultural agreement. In 2018, there was a big look in the VG that the Workers' Party was going out on the second-hand market and buying new Bell helicopters. Then came the budget for 2019, and there was no sign of any investment for such helicopters. Then we come to election year 2019, and the Workers' Party travels around with a localized helicopter message and goes out heavy and tells you to buy new Black Hawk helicopters. Then came the budget for 2020 – no sign of Black Hawk. The Workers' Party has also tried to make it its parademic to criticise the Government's investment plan relating to tanks. It's falling on rock bottom. A valiant effort was made in the state budget for 2019 and was set at 70 million. kr for tanks. So it was enough for a three-quarters tank. Then the 2020 budget comes, and there's no sign of tanks. The Labour Party has surrendered. The government proposes to grant $6 billion. SEK to the Army in 2020. The construction of Finnmark land defence continues unrelentingly. In a short time, the number of officers and soldiers on the garrison in Porsanger has increased from 100 to 450 and is on the fast way to 800, and the garrison in South Varanger gets a new hunter's company that will be fully operational in 2022. The central party's claim that the land force is down-prioritized has no root in reality. But the government had to make a priority, because you were in a situation where about all the main fighting systems had come to an end at the same time. Then you did the most important thing first.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2237	It is urgent to eradicate extreme poverty and achieve the other sustainability goals by 2030. Since 1990, the number of extremely poor people in the world has fallen from nearly two billion people to about 800 million. Although the proportion of poor people is more than halved, there are as many extremely poor people in Africa today as there were 15 years ago. That is, more than half of the world's poor are right there, against just 15 pst. in 1990. The Chairman of the Committee was concerned that the centre of gravity was shifted from South Asia to sub-Saharan Africa. Essentially, it's where we want to find this as a phenomenon in the future. In other words, it's the last stage that becomes the toughest. Hunger is also left on the march, much in the same areas. Together with strong population growth – we will probably be as many as two billion more by 2050 – there will be a need for much more food. 50 pst. more needs to be produced with one third of the climate impact, while the same climate change in many of these already vulnerable areas destroys crop yields. In other words, there is good reason why the UN Secretary-General has given such a clear message. We must reach those who are, and he says ‘furthest behinder first’ whether you live in sub-Saharan Africa, are subjected to modern slavery, are held back by harmful customs, are disabled persons or are given their crops away by climate change. We cannot achieve the sustainability goals without strengthening the efforts of those groups. Overall, the government's proposed 1.4 billion increase. bring the aid budget up to 39,2 billion. kr. But money alone is not enough. Understand me correctly, because the aid money is just a small part of what's going on. Calculations say it's only 10 pst. the financing from the assistance to achieve the sustainability objectives. Countries do not get out of poverty without taking ownership of themselves and doing so by their own power. Therefore, local resource mobilisation, development taxes, anti-corruption work – illegal capital flight – job creation and industrial development are crucial. That's why we're focusing on the tools that enable governments and people to generate their own growth as far as possible. Knowledge is therefore more sought together with funds, such as our Knowledge Bank, the use of technology and innovation – we immediately present the Digitalisation Communication in development policy that shows just how technology was used correctly, for example. can provide quality education to new and unwary groups — or drones now in use by Rwanda, sending 1.5 litres of vital blood up to 150 km, part of a new infrastructure that saved lives that did not previously have a chance. It shows that digitisation and innovation can multiply the effects and not least reach the most vulnerable. Since 2013, the government has more than doubled its efforts to educate girls and boys around the world. But there will be no education if young girls' own parents marry them away, or choose them away because they want a boy. As mentioned several times here in the hall: every day over 30,000 girls are preparing to stand broken. Those who force their own daughters to marry take away from them childhood, life and the future of these girls, but also force their own country to remain in poverty. Therefore, modern and forward-looking development policies are when the government now strengthens the fight against harmful customs such as child marriage, gender mutilation and ‘gendercide’ – preference for boys. We also create a separate post on the state budget for vulnerable groups of almost half a billion dollars. It should go to persons with disabilities and to combat modern forms of slavery such as trafficking in human beings, forced labour and child labour. Nor does it help anyone with education if they are affected by sickness or premature death. Norway is now taking global health leadership a step further by being the first country in the world to adopt a global strategy to combat non-infectious diseases. Over the course of two years, we have doubled the focus on renewable energy in developing countries. With the new guarantee effort, we take new steps and reach villages that are not connected to national electricity grids. Such solutions will contribute to better air, better health, better climate and more jobs and be part of an important mix to ensure that the future energy demand is met by renewable energy. We can neither afford nor have the right to close our eyes because climate change is already destroying crops and forcing millions from their homes. People die, nature is being broken down at a pace that makes many here at home also waking up. That is why we are strengthening the commitment to climate adaptation and the prevention of hunger, the fight against hunger by half a billion dollars, so that total climate action is also increasing in 2020. If we are to succeed in eradicating poverty, agriculture and food security are crucial. A very large proportion of the poor and vulnerable feed themselves as small users. It shows how closely integrated we must work on poverty reduction, climate adaptation and sustainable food systems.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2256	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2261	I think it's good that we've got our own development minister, so we're getting more discussion about this in the hall. That's 1 pst. developments in this budget, and that is good, and it provides a greater opportunity to discuss its content. I am very surprised that the Minister of Development is not talking about reproductive rights and the right to prevention and abortion. It's been a very important thing. He also knows that was the first question he got from me in this room. It might have come as a surprise, because it took us a while before we got an answer, but we got an answer. After the Trump administration went on, this government has been very concerned to show that we are moving towards increasing the budgets of prevention and abortion to balance up for the Trump administration. But then the Minister of Development's first budget comes with a pretty big cut. What's the reason for that? What signals is the Minister of Development trying to send by cutting — after a few years of wanting to increase these budgets?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2270	It's like I'm pretty fresh in the game here, and I had actually hoped I'd say a little bit more from the pulpit right behind here. Then, among other things, I wanted to do something about it. mentioned the importance of sexual and reproductive health and related rights, inter alia. What we've been doing in the last few years, with an increase of 700 million. kr, and that we already this year are fulfilling the obligations that we had said we would come by 2020. Earlier this fall, I came back from a population conference in Nairobi, where we ‘care’ over 10 billion. kr to the SRHR field in the next four years. I think the representative can be quite reassured given that this is a field in which we have just helped to offset some of the negative effects she pointed to, and that the policy is firmly linked to the SRHR field.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2277	This is proven to be wrong. The policy is not determined. It was cut when the right-hand government took over – quite big. Then came the Trump administration, and the Norwegian side was busy raising the budgets – up to 1.6 billion. kr. But now we have received a response from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to cut the budget by 276 million from 2019 to 2020. kr. It doesn't calm me down. On the contrary, it makes me very concerned because this goes to concrete measures. It is the prevention guidance for people in very many poor countries who have been cut off because of the Trump administration's policy, and there are abortion measures in refugee camps that have been cut off because of Trump administration's policy. This is about people who get their offers cut, and then I don't understand the reason why the Minister of Development will cut from the current year to the next year's budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2284	Then again, I will try to reassure the representative in order to clarify the letter signed by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who is trying to explain what appears to be a cut in the budget, and which is largely about movements between different items. For example, what's moved from the equality item to the MR item is not a real cut. In fact, the same is true in health, gender equality and some individual projects related to Robert Carr and others. The last big change is about the temporalization of the global fund, which the representative can also see very clearly in a section a little later in the same letter, that it's not about a real reduction, but just about the rate of payment, which shows that we have the exact same amount. And once again, we've shown this autumn that we want to strengthen that field over the next four years.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2291	The state councils have already been in the fight against poverty and link it up to food and food production locally. In the past, agriculture was seen as part of the problem and the basis for poverty. Now it seems that if one is going to get out of poverty, it is absolutely necessary to bring up food production — local food production, local value chain, local markets, regional markets. I'm so lucky to have been together with the committee and looked at projects that are very successful, precisely in that area. It is possible to get it, and not least to get it to water supply. Why does the government not want to invest even more in this area when it is so fundamental to lifting many out of poverty in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2297	If something is certain, this government is pointing to the link between poverty reduction and climate change, that we need to look at climate adaptation, prevent natural disasters and put sustainable food systems in place. One needs to get knowledge of it and put it into the system, and then those who work as small-scale soil users, for example, become an incredibly important target group to be involved and contribute. There is a large part of the poor and vulnerable who are just that, and it shows how closely integrated the areas that I just mentioned are. The support is stepped up by more than 500 million. kr in that area. I would like to say that this is a significant strengthening. When one has such new areas of activity, it's also a construction to simply have the capacity to ensure that we can follow the results and effects of the projects that we're launching. So I'm incredibly proud of what we're doing in that particular field. We have been involved in setting an international agenda, and we will continue to do so too.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2302	I thank you for the answer, and I have to stretch so far that I give some praise to the Council of State. It was a big difference to get the Christian People's Party into that department in relation to what was before, as we felt that we actually met connected doors for what the Center Party has been working on for very, very many years, and that we now see is also international about to take off. We were both in the United Nations General Assembly, including at side events, and in the pulpit this was just raised by several, including the angle that I think is so important. There are many people who have big projects where one by one also of course have to make money, on large, heavy ranches of different types. It's not what makes a building community, building good communities and getting people out of poverty. So then the question becomes, where does the road go, and who is cooperating with us from Norway's side to raise this in the global order in which we participate?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2307	In the future, it is clear that there are different cooperation actors, depending on the needs of the countries and what is being requested, but there are very many good actors with whom I have already been in contact, who see precisely these things in the context. A look at climate change, sees the need for climate-smart agriculture, looks at nature-based solutions and organic methods to get more yield and connect it with clean energy and what I said instead of technology, access to markets by phone, etc. There can be a few weather forecasts and prices on the market, which make it possible to obtain greater profits and more income from small-scale farmers, of which it is all, most of them. So I really think we're very much in agreement, that we're going to find good projects that give the most effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2312	When the striking students were outside the Storting and demanded action in view of the climate, increased international effort was one of the things they encouraged us to do, a strong increase in climate aid precisely because we need to see development, the fight against poverty and inequality, and the fight against the climate crisis as a whole. As was also the case in the previous question, it is now to ensure that the poorest are protected from the consequences of the climate crisis, unbelievably important, and in the same way to ensure that poor countries are able to take the lead in fossil energy by immediately investing in renewable energy. Then is my challenge to the Minister of Development – which, like the others, I am happy to exist, there has been a shortage until now in the bourgeois period, but nevertheless: Why is this development budget not greener? Why are we in the opposition and the SV budget that have to propose a proper lifting of renewable energy? Why hasn't the Minister of Development done it himself?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2317	I am very pleased that I have the opportunity to stand here and answer such questions and refer to the good development policy that the government follows even when it comes to the climate field. Now it is not very many weeks since we presented what is the new renewable energy guarantee scheme, which can both help and stimulate the future energy demand and the fight against coal – there we are going to be involved and contribute. At the same time, there is a strong link with the small, more off-grid solutions that link agriculture, the need for energy and the climate change that are already affecting the most vulnerable and poor. There's a lot of money we've put in, and we've started a process of escalating in several areas here that you haven't done and seen before. So we're definitely going to deliver on the green as well. It is precisely where we can succeed in eradicating poverty in the most vulnerable areas, and therefore it is something I take on all, most seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2322	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2329	In recent years, the world has become more unpredictable. We see a more self-reliant Russia where the pattern of exercises in the north is more aggressive, and which is constantly undermining and trying to split the West, including NATO and the EU. Furthermore, the number of digital attacks generally increases both in scale and severity. International terrorism persists as a serious problem in large parts of the world. Global and regional tensions have increased. Defence needs to be further strengthened in order to deal with this, and more combativeness and better preparedness are needed. That is why the Right has turned the defence under the red-green into a solid structure. Now we see that the operational capability of the defence is increasing, and this is clearly evident in the defence's annual reports in recent years. Operational capability continues to rise and, once the current long-term plan is completed in 2020, will be significantly improved. Since 2013, the government has actually increased the budget by about 30 p.m., from about 43 billion. DKK to 61 billion NOK, and we're renewing a very high proportion of the defence's main fighting systems at the same time. We acquire new fighter aircraft, maritime surveillance aircraft, helicopters, submarines, artillery, air protection and a number of other important materials in order for Norway to be able to defend itself in the future. In addition, we have strengthened the Intelligence Service to improve the ability to understand what is going on around us. The Government will set aside funds for temporary measures to reduce the negative operational consequences of the disaster with KNM Helge Ingstad. This includes the increased number of days sailing for the logistic vessel KNM ‘Maud’ and the reacquisition of lost spare parts package for international frigate operations. The initiative gives results, and the head of defence reports back on increased activity and that developments are moving in the right direction. With the government's draft budget and including the adjustments in the NATO defence expenditure report, the preliminary forecast of defence expenditure's share of gross domestic product is about 1,8 p.s. in 2020. With the large budgetary increases and adjusted reporting of defence expenditure, the gross national share has increased from 1.51 p.m. in 2013 to an estimated 1.8 pst. by 2020, and with the new long-term defence plan to be adopted next year, the defence shall be further strengthened and increased in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2346	We can be proud of the government's budget. This is not least the case in the field of foreign and development policy. Let me in particular draw up one measure that we should note. It is the strengthening of efforts for education globally. There are about 64 million children in high school and about 61 million young people in the world who do not get school. Education is a bet the government has implemented and continued for many years. It is positive that this area is still being followed up by Minister of Foreign Affairs Ine Eriksen Soreide and Minister of Development Dag-Inge Ulstein. Support for education is proposed to be continued at a high level in 2020. In total, it's set at 3.7 billion. The aim of the government is that Norway should contribute to ensuring quality training for all in line with the UN Sustainable Development Goal 4, which says that we should ensure inclusive and equitable quality training for all and promote lifelong learning. This implies that we provide support for education even where there is war and conflict. And further, it means strengthening the right of girls to education and vocational training. It is an objective to promote quality and learning and to achieve the most marginalised, in particular children with disabilities. This represents the sum of the main priorities of the government in the Norwegian educational initiative. This is positive. For me personally, it is very important that girls are given the opportunity to go to school, so that they can be allowed to support themselves. That's why it's very good that the government supports girls' right to education. It promotes gender equality, strengthens the local environment and helps fight poverty traps. The Government promotes equal access to education, including: through cooperation between UNESCO and UNICEF. It is important that Norway takes the lead in this work. We can't do everything alone, but we can make a difference, for example. in a country like Malawi, which is a pilot country for our educational effort. We can help more countries move in the same direction, and the government budget for next year shows that we are taking such a responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2363	I have the honour to present to the Stortinget the svalbard budget together with the state budget. In the proposal, the Stortinget gets an overview of all proposals for Svalbard appropriations, and there is broad political agreement on the main objectives of Norwegian svalbard policy. The overall objectives of the swallowing policy are fixed and form the basis for the management of the archipelago. The management of Svalbard shall be characterised by predictability and continuity. The svalbard budget reflects this. The geographical location of Svalbard, the demanding climate and the high distances present challenges for social security and preparedness. I am pleased that the Storting in the budget unit has extended the sailing season for the Employment Man's vessel M/S "Polar Employment", so that it can now be disposed of throughout the year. We see that maritime activity around Svalbard is increasing, considering both how far north it goes, and how far into the winter it goes. ‘Polar employment’ is one central resource in the rescue and rescue work on Svalbard. The Committee's proposal for an increase in the grant of the sage budget will further strengthen preparedness. At the same time, priority should be given to prevention measures on security and preparedness. The conditions on and at Svalbard may make it difficult to perform rescue and rescue operations. The residential areas under the mountain Sugar peak and dwellings along the Waterline Valley are particularly exposed to undesirable natural events. New climate projections for Longyearbyen have provided challenges for geotechnics, the foundation and construction of physical measures in permafrost areas, and we have seen need to investigate further. Work on the installation of physical measures has been delayed as a result, and the government proposes to allocate 61.2 million. SEK for scrapping protection in 2020. Some dwellings below the mountain peak of the sugar peak are not safe from physical measures. Therefore, several dwellings must be removed and demolished. Among other things, as a result, there has been a shortage of housing in Longyearbyen. State buildings have now completed 60 new dwellings in Gruvedalen, and this has contributed to an improved housing situation in Longyearbyen. Clean-up work in Svea and Lunckefjell will continue in 2020. This is a very comprehensive project, which is further explained in the proposal to the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries. There may often be large distances to response resources. Preventive measures will always be preferred to reduce the risk of ship accidents. The government sees the environment and safety in the context, and we will consider making the heavy oil ban a general ban, while considering imposing size limits on ships. Although Svalbard’s preparedness and rescue services are significantly strengthened under this government, there are limits to what the rescue services can do.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2382	Fresh climateall shows that temperatures in Svalbard have been higher than the average over the last nine years. Since 1961 the temperature of Svalbard has increased by 5.6 degrees. The climate changes at Svalbard are dramatic, the warming here is about six times higher than the global temperature increase. That's what the Meteorological Institute says. So-called winter rain in the winter, which previously came as snow, is now often replaced by heavy rain. Since the 1960s, the temperature increase has been three times higher than what we have experienced, for example. Here in Oslo. For a few months, the temperature in the area around Longyearbyen has been 12-14 degrees above normal. Many of us remember the summer of drought last year. By comparison, the temperature was only 3.2 degrees above that of the Blind. The challenges we see are far less than what we see in Svalbard. It's on this island group we have Norway's only coal power plant. It supplies the Longyearbyen with electricity and heat. The coal industry has now been decommissioned, and we must start work on finding new energy solutions for the swallowing community. The local government at Svalbard now wants to invest in a new reserve power solution that can be connected to the coal power plant. It is important that this becomes an emission-free solution for the future. Therefore, SV has proposed to set aside 30 million in its budget. kr for a battery pack that can be charged by the sun. One wall at the airport in Longyearbyen is already covered by solar panels today, and the potential to expand more is great. We should aim to create a renewable and emission-free Svalbard, a Svalbard that can become an exhibition window for the rest of the Arctic world in the fight against the climate crisis. But there's an urgent need to get started with these plans. Unfortunately, no money came from the government to the most necessary energy conversion at Svalbard, but we hope that there will be appropriations in the revised national budget for 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2393	The Progress Party is very pleased that we have received a relatively broad majority on the Grand Duchy to be clear that if the Palestinian self-government authorities continue to have school books that promote Judaism, radical Islam and the glorification of violence, in school, Norway will hold back its funds. Of course, the progress party would have gone even further; we would have cut the funds already now. But this is a very clear signal from the Stortinget that we expect the government to follow up, and we expect the Foreign Minister to come back to the Stortinget and explain how it will be followed up if the report shows what else has already been documented. Therefore, it is intended to see that even parties which have been relatively vocal against Palestinian self-government authorities in public space and said that this is unacceptable, which it is, do not support this remark. In the case of SV, I guess I didn't expect anything in particular. But that the Workers' Party cannot support such a comment, I find it worrying. It testifies to an Workers' Party in glide flight, and I'm afraid it might be an expression that the Workers' Party is about to be radicalized. My question is: are there the Palestinian activists who have been implemented in the Workers' Group? Has it become so that one cannot agree on completely fundamental things like this and gather widely in the Biggest on such an important matter as this actually is? I also ask questions at the source of the Workers' Party when they say that these references have been removed from the school books already and therefore are not a problem. It's proven to be wrong. In order to refer to one of many examples, students in the Palestinian territories learn, when they have Arabic at school, among other things. a text in which terrorist attacks by fire bombs against Israeli bus passengers are referred to as a barbecue party. This is the kind of attitude that is conveyed in the school in Palestine. It's completely unacceptable, but unfortunately it's not a total accumulation that makes it clear enough today. That's very regrettable.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2405	There are now dramatic things happening on Svalbard. But now I'm not talking about security policy, I'm talking about climate and environmental change. This Arctic Norway now provides such clear answers to what we humans have done with the globe that it cannot be answered more clearly. I've been so lucky to travel a lot in all kinds of hooks of this island group for decades, and what I see up there scares me. The temperature increase resulting from climate change gives enormous results. The prevalence of ice and its thickening is now one thing – it has retreated so far that the polar bear has largely left its most preferred hi-ranges in the south and east. I've been to both places, among other things. Hope and King Karl's Land. Another thing is that increasing race and pace and thawing of the tundra have also become a huge problem. Of course, that means everything to the building mass of Svalbard. The established houses are no longer safe at all. In addition, the tundra itself has been the foundation wall for house construction on Svalbard. I've seen that both in Svalbard and in the Russian and North American Arctic. This kind of construction technique is no longer possible, which we've been told a lot about at Svalbard. I was a sea guide on a tour of the island group in the summer of 2011, and then a large building in Barentsburg, the Russian settlement, was heading out into the sea. Another example is the fishing hut of the legendary catcher Hilmar Nøis in Sassen, Villa Fredheim. It has had to be moved in the last confidence due to thawing, erosion and the risk of slipping. Our world-renowned seed stocks from 2008 need to be repaired and rebuilt to ensure that the temperature is maintained at the right level in the future. The price tag is, of course, about 100 million. kr, and that bill must be taken by the Ministry of Agriculture. It is good that the allocation of scrapping and settlement measures is increased to more than 60 million. kr, as State Council Tybring-Gjedde just mentioned. But we need to be aware – and I am sure – that this amount needs to be increased in future budgets. Climate change determines it, and local government needs it. Experts estimate that about 250 homes, including 100 student homes, are likely to have to be moved away because they are in danger. It's estimated to cost about 220 million. kr for repair. In addition, most of these funds are channelled through the NVE, but local government also has large additional costs as a result of the melting of the tundra, and the funds must be taken from the regular budgets of schools, kindergartens, etc. We need to be aware of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2422	The ability to defend national interests and Norwegian territory and to provide NATO countries with the necessary security lies at the bottom of the military defence we have today. We need to invest in a structure that can quickly adapt to changing threat images. The defence industries, the Home Office, the cyber defence, logistics and intelligence – there is a wide range of capacities to ensure this. The Chief of Defense and the Chief of Defence's Operational Command said that the defence is too small, and that the response time and stamina need to be significantly strengthened, and the army is too small to defend Norway in a conflict until reinforcement by our allies is in place. Home security, which is part of that country power, is also an important part of this scenario. We in the Central Party want to increase budgets by 750 million next year. kr. to the Army and 250 million. I'm going to Homeland. The action taken in Northern Norway is very important for Norway. We want to strengthen rural power in particular — and Home Affairs, which is part of it. The Brigade, who is the fighting force in the Army, lies there – it lies in the north. It's also exciting what's happening in Finnmark, with both the Hunter Company being built up, and not least with the maneuvering department on the Porsangermo, which is a step towards establishing a cavalry battalion. It's a shame if there's no more than one step, because it's absolutely necessary. We in the Central Party are concerned with strengthening the country's power. It must also be speeded up in time. The total combat force is important, and we need to build an organisation that significantly increases endurance. Army 2nd Battalion is a light infantry unit. It is not mobilization disposed of. It is in the brigade today, it has been there for many years and should be absolutely maintained and not replaced by a mob-disposed staff, even after 2021. We must not allow a brigade who has had a story, and which is very important, to be part of this game. There's a deterioration in the impact force the brigade represents today. We are clearly opposed to that. In the case of helicopters, it's probably saying it's almost itself. There are probably no countries that do not have an available helicopter force as part of a graspable Brigade resource. I don't think there's any country that doesn't. The importance of home security has increased. They have confidence, and they're worthy of trust. Equipment and training, which is often discussed, must soon be a matter of course. The mission of Home Protection, territorial surveillance and control, object protection, capacity to combat minor compartments are capacities created to address the entire spectrum of security crises. Home security is an organisation that can be used throughout this spectrum. The issue of Sjøheimewert is a mistake – it needs to be put in place again to ensure that we have all the four legs on which the Home Guard has to stand in order to discharge its responsibilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2433	It is important that Norway adheres to its international obligations and contributes to the global fight against infectious diseases. We've done a good job in our own country, but infectious diseases don't know any boundaries. Our history gives us a responsibility to take leadership in this fight. We have committed ourselves to this through the sustainability objectives and through the Granavolden platform, where it says that Norway should be a global driver for efforts to combat antibiotic resistance. Today, resistant tuberculosis accounts for one third of all deaths related to resistance. Every year more than ten million people get tuberculosis, one million of which is a child. Almost 40 pst. of those affected, do not have access to healthcare and never receive diagnosis and treatment. Many remain contagious until they die. Tuberculosis is currently difficult to diagnose, and treatment is tough – at least four different antibiotics for six months, the same treatment we had in Norway in the 1950s. It is quite easy to say that one should stop the tuberculosis epidemic, as the world's leaders have done through the sustainability goals and during the high-level meeting on tuberculosis last year, but this will remain empty words if not followed up with enough resources. The WHO has estimated that in 2017 there were around 219 million new cases of malaria, which caused around 219 million new cases. 435 000 deaths. 92 pst. deaths were in Africa, and 70 pst. Global deaths were among children under five years of age. HIV infection has been detected in all countries in the world. UNAIDS estimates that by the end of 2017, there were about 37 million people living with HIV infection. Only 21 million of these people have access to antiviral therapy. Since the beginning of the epidemic, it is estimated that about 78 million people have been infected with HIV, and about 35 million people have died of AIDS-related diseases. Norway supports the Global Fund for the Control of AIDS, Malaria and Tuberculosis. Norway is also a major donor to Gavi and was central to the establishment of the CEPI. I believe Norway can contribute even more, and a greater proportion of our assistance should go to the fight against infectious diseases. We need to use aid to clear up disease, just as we use it to clean up the gardens for plastics. It makes sense to use aid on something concrete that we know save lives. Illness is driving many into even greater poverty, giving more migration and even more people who are linked to terrorist groups, as we see, among other things. in Sahel. The precarious health situation in the sub-Saharan area is an important driver of destabilisation, migration and terrorism. The fight against tuberculosis, malaria and AIDS is therefore not just medical help; it is a crucial contribution to stabilising an entire region. In any case, we have committed ourselves to providing a large proportion of the state budget for development and assistance. We have to make strict demands that money actually helps people, gives people better lives and creates a better world. A greater share of the aid budget should go towards disease control, because poor health prevents prosperity, increases poverty and destabilises parts of the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2454	While we are sitting here discussing the foreign budget for next year, the UN climate negotiations are ongoing in Madrid. Although the United States has withdrawn from the Paris Agreement, negotiations are in full force. That's good. What is less good is that the world is in no way on track to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement to avoid catastrophic climate change. This applies both to national cuts — Norway is far from leading — and to contributing internationally. Neither does the government deliver here. The lack of funding for climate action in developing countries is one of the main problems of international climate action. The Labour Party therefore believes that climate should be one of our truly major efforts in development policy. We did that in the red-green government, and it's only become more important since 2013. That is why this should have been met with budget increases in recent years – instead, budget cuts from the right-hand government have been met. Under Børge Burnde we were actually in the situation that it was cut down to one third of the level it was at under the government of Stoltenberg. This meant that agreements that had been concluded had to be terminated, and programmes that would have to be implemented with great success had to be concluded immediately. This was double evil. First of all, it was bad because it is bad climate policy, but it is also bad because it says something about Norway's predictability in development policy. Under Nikolai Astrup as Minister of Development, there was an increase in renewable energy. That's good, even though it's pretty close enough. With the signals coming from our new development minister, I was sure this was going to continue to increase under his rule, but that's the opposite we've seen. Once again, large cuts have been made in the appropriations for renewable energy. He said in reply that he was satisfied, but the truth is that there has been a cut of 275 million. kr after Dag-Inge Ulstein became Minister for Development. There's no need to be content. So the entry of the Christian People's Party into the government was to cut back on this important work. In the Labour Party, we think the opposite. We believe that this should be a major effort. We need to combine aid increases with Norway's expertise in renewable energy towards promises that other countries will not start up new coal power plants. I hope this government will see what the Danes do under the direction of Mette Frederiksen. Where Norway has traveled to Madrid without any news — apart from the Prime Minister’s saying that the ‘climate crisis’ is to use a little too strong a word — the Danes have said that they should do something about it. In the last week, they have launched climate targets to cut 70 pst. of their national emissions, and just a few hours ago, they launched an climate programme with China, where a huge effort is being made to avoid the construction of new coal-fired power plants in China. This is an example of follow-up, also for the Norwegian government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2467	There is now a humanitarian crisis in Europe. Those who read the VG yesterday could read the title "Welcome to Hell". There are thousands of people, thousands of children, in the plastic tent, mud and sewage, with hunger and self-harm. This describes the situation in the Greek refugee camps. In the Moria camp, 17 000 people now live. There should actually be room for 3,000. 10,000 of them now live outside the camp. There are 4,000 more refugees who have arrived only during November. The refugee disaster is under way, but Norway is still in silence. Norway could have done much more to relieve Greece, as SV has proposed and is going to propose again the week in connection with the regrouping proposition, where we have money left over, which we can now use to receive some of these kids sitting there alone. One of them is four years old and is alone with the other lone minor asylum seekers. I have asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs: is it not that we get back quite a lot of these EEA funds from Greece, because there are reasons why they are not allowed to use them up? That's it. I have now also checked the balancing proposition of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for 2019. In item 77, the figure is 360 million. NOK and item 78 is SEK 380 million. kr. While we in the Municipal Committee are trying to scrape money together in order to receive some of the asylum seekers who are alone in the camps, we are going to discuss the balancing proposition of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to propose that this money should go to humanitarian work in the refugee camps in Greece. That should be possible. The Red Cross and the Refugee Aid have pulled themselves out of the camps because there is so bad there that they cannot be there. If not all the money is used this year, it is possible to have the small inscription where it says ‘can be transferred’. This is humanitarian distress, so I had hoped that perhaps the Minister of Development and the Minister of Foreign Affairs could find out how they could go about this task together. Because I think it is a great shame for Europe that we are unable to help a neighbouring country, a country we are allied with, in such a critical situation as they are in, and that we cannot help people who are now sitting without anything but a plastic tent, when we have allocated money to it and the money is not used, but is sent back to the scarce Norwegian state register.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2484	Thank you to the previous speaker, who with burning commitment addresses a very important matter. I'll talk about something else. The relationship between Israel and Palestine has always been a central part of Norwegian foreign policy – not always, of course, it was wrong to say, but for the past 30 to 40 years. On the way, the line that was put under the Oslo agreement, which is still valid for Norwegian policy, and we quite agree on this in this Chamber: demand for a two-state solution, end of occupation, strengthening the rights of the Palestinian people and, of course, requiring Israel to comply with international law. The debate has been polarized because President Donald Trump stands for a completely different line. He wants to cut off support for UNRWA, he has moved the embassy to Jerusalem, and he now also supports illegal residence on occupied land on the West Bank. That is why it is very gratifying that the European Court of Justice now decided in November that foodstuffs produced in illegally occupied countries should be labelled. It is therefore necessary to distinguish between legally produced goods and illegally produced goods in the occupied country. The SV and the undersigned have submitted a similar proposal, which will also apply to Norway. So we want to have a system in Norway where importers of goods from this area have clearly noticed whether these goods have been produced in illegal territory. So it's not an import ban we're in favour of, but it's a brand scheme that allows people to distinguish between what's legally produced and what's illegally produced. The political point here is to point out that the occupying power of Israel is not going to make money on occupation, but that Israel is going to follow international law, as both the current and the previous Foreign Minister have been very clear: international law is to be observed on these issues, and Israel is required to comply with the commitment of the fourth Geneva Convention on the Occupational Powers. At the same time, the Storting here gives an opportunity to choose whether we are now in favour of the EU line, which is a line to support the Palestinian people in this matter and insist that Israel must follow international law, or whether we will follow Donald Trump's line. The debate we are going to have on this in winter is just a test of whether we are following the United States or the EU in the Israeli–Palestinian question. In fact, I believe there is great will in this Chamber to be in this proposal, precisely because it is right in international law, it is in line with what the Foreign Minister has said several times, and of course there is also a will in this government to follow the EU in such matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2497	We are facing some major challenges in the world and some major and ongoing crises. There are more and more who are fleeing from war and conflict. There are large groups in the world who are starving, who do not have access to food and clean water. I listened to the intervention of the Minister of Foreign Affairs earlier today, and the Foreign Minister also pointed to some of these challenges and the fact that one is in a situation of great humanitarian challenges – more than 167 million people need humanitarian aid. Then we need to step up our efforts. The Central Party has in its alternative budget a clear strengthening of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees. We also want to strengthen support for civil society, increase support for the World Food Programme and increase support for agricultural aid. I noticed that the Minister for Foreign Affairs said that there was now a grant for humanitarian aid of 5.5 billion. NOK, and that there had been an increase. That's good, of course, but the need is much greater. The appropriations in this area are, of course, only as far greater than what the government proposes in the allocation of EEA funds to some countries in Europe for next year. I'm absolutely sure that if we had an open debate in Stortingen on priorities, we wouldn't have prioritised that way. When, for example: on the commitment of the current EEA financial instrument, we have an obligation to contribute more than 1 billion. kr annually to Poland. Reasonable projects can also be found to support within the EEA funds, although there are very many examples of projects that should not be supported. But regardless of that -- in the situation that the world is up in, and that also areas quite close to us are up in, I actually don't think the Storting would have done such a priority that one would have spent over 1 billion. kr annually to Poland. That's why we want to make a changed priority. I hear that someone warns that the centre party will remove all EEA funds and sign us out of the EEA Agreement as of 1 January. No, no, no. The centre party is against the EEA Agreement, but we are proposing a budget of 2.2 billion next year. kr, which is more than twice as much as it was possible to use EEA funds last year. But we have to change the priorities and give to those who really need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2508	I have to make some comments to the representative of Kolberg, because he's talking on autopilot. He keeps the same post every year. He puts his face in deep, serious folds, and with great patos and great dramaturgy he presents the terrible sight that Christian Tybring-Gjedde represents. But Kolberg was a little upresis when it applied to these western values which he was occupied with. I can tell Kolberg that Western values are primarily based on the individual – the individual – which often distinguishes us from other cultures and not least other religions. The distinction between state and church is different. We have the rule of law, we have freedom of expression and equality, and we have equality. These are the values on which the West is based. So I want Kolberg to document what in my post that shocked him so much. At least I can assure the representative of Kolberg that I have full support in my own party. I probably also have full support in the Workers' Party for these values, because they are absolutely central to Western democracy. What I said was that I would make demands on those who receive assistance from Norway. That's the first thing I said. So I said that I want the United Kingdom to choose the same solution to Europe that Norway has done. And then I told you to distance yourself from antisemitism in textbooks in the Palestinian self-government areas. That was my main message. I'm a little surprised that the representative of Kolberg thinks it's so dramatic. I might put myself in a way that the representative Kolberg doesn't like, but I'm actually quite entitled to do, I'm doing it independently of Kolberg's wishes. So it's a little interesting with SV, because the Lightbaking was on the pulpit here instead and said he didn't want American soldiers on Norwegian soil, and he wanted us to pull ourselves out of all sorts of places on the planet. He's very busy criticizing Donald Trump. But that's exactly what Donald Trump wants. He'll pull American forces out of anywhere on the planet and focus on his own, and then he'll want Europe to defend itself. That's exactly what SV wants. Yeah, well, all the other NATO countries are fighting for the United States to remain part of the alliance, and stand up loyal to each other. The U.S. and Trump have tried to go out. They have recently turned around, fortunately, and realize that NATO is important, not least because of the efforts of the Secretary-General of NATO, who made a contribution to the U.S. Congress to great applause and cheers – while the Light Hill will really stand for the old ‘Trump doctrine’. I think that's interesting, and I should have liked to hear that from the Lighthouse.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2517	I've read the comments of the Center Party with special interest. The centre party points to the importance of agriculture in the use of aid. There we may agree, but it would have been interesting if the Central Party had been a little bit more concerned that these countries could sell their agricultural products at world market prices, and not gobbled them with customs protection of their own agriculture. The Central Party writes a little at the most in its remarks that they want to have ‘a national defence — a defence of the people, of the people’. It's Abraham Lincoln in a new theme, connected with a little bit of a Chinese expression for the Defense. The central party's balancing of the state budget is an eye-catching and irresponsible procurator's grip. The alleged increase in defence comes through a half-billion redeployment grip on the state budget, almost 499 million. kr. The central party has to decide whether or not to operate in the real world. In fact, the new maritime surveillance planes come in spite of the fact that the Center Party has been against it. If you realized that and accepted it, the logical consequence would be to add a few dollars – probably not so few – to the infrastructure investment needed on Andy Island to take these planes. The centre party will reduce the joint defence functions. The common functions are the staff functions. I wonder if the Senterpartie House has passed the fact that the Defense has been through the greatest change in the public sector ever. Today's defense staff are almost comparable to a branch office in the senior command of the old Defence. There is no staff to cut for any longer, but by cutting the rods in the Defense now you are losing the staff force and thus weakening the execution capacity of the Defence to take care of the large investments to be made, and the necessary construction of the Defence. As if there weren't enough inconsistencies, the Center Party also suggests, as a direct consequence of the cut-off in Defence Building, that this will affect the object protection, where the Center Party has criticized the government. The party leader was even outside – when this was at worst – suggesting that mistrust was being promoted against the government. So there's little agreement – if anything at all – between what the Center Party has been out criticising, and what they're actually doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2532	It was with interest that I agreed to hear the Minister of Defence's comments in the debate here today. I heard a Minister of Defense who framed what was important priorities in his work on the Defense, but I heard nothing about what I think is important, the cyber defence. It's an important part of the defense. Operation, security and defence of defence's computer systems are frequently and probably more frequent than before. It was a brave decision that was made by then Secretary of Defense Grete Faremo in 2010 when the management of the cyberdefense was located on Jørstadmoen outside Lillehammer. It was brave, because it probably wasn't everyone in the defense who agreed with that decision then, and it was brave because it has contributed to a good development for the technology environments around Mjösa. In particular, cooperation between Jørstadmoen and NTNU has been important in the years that follow. It was with some uncertainty that we looked forward to the long-term defence plan being launched in June 2016, but it announced a significant escalation of the activity at Jørstadmoen. Stortingsretten Olemic Thommessen said it was a great news he came with when it was said that there were 650 new jobs at Jørstadmoen, and that there would be significant investments. When I heard the representative Harek Elvenes in his first post remind us that we were in the third period of the long-term plan, I came up with a question I had asked the Minister of Defence earlier. Then I asked the Minister of Defense how far he had come to put the 650 new jobs in place. That's 40. So there's a significant effort that needs to be made the next year to fulfill the promise made by the government. Jørstadmoen is important for the defence, but also for the community. 650 jobs in a few state jobs, where unemployment is increasing and the employment rate is low, it will be a pleasure both to have these defence jobs coming and to have ring-fenced effects. I hope that the Minister of Defense in some of his posts later today can say something about when the 610 next jobs come to Jørstadmoen, and what is the further ambition of the government for what is going to happen up there.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2548	Three things at the bottom of the debate: first, I just want to say that the Labour Party for its part is very clear that the development we see in the Defence of Privatisation is an unfortunate development. We in the Workers' Party do not believe that the defence should not cooperate with the private sector, we never meant that. But with regard to these basic functions that we see the defence is dependent on, especially in the area of maintenance, we make it very clear in the setting that we mean – and there I think we really have been defending well with us now – that the privatisation idea that the Council of State and the government have presented in this area for many years needs to be added. The working party is a champion of such a position. Secondly, there is the discussion of these decisions: I am not going to do this too far, but it has to be cleared up a little before the debate is over. So there is a request decision, and I stick to this with the tanks and stuff. There was a broad majority behind the request decision, which was about loans and leasing, in order to arrive at a situation as soon as possible where the combatant capacity of the brigades was much better. That is the reality of this. Then I hear what the council says in the line-up with me. He says it stands firm, we'll do that. But then we're going to get to what's the essential, and that I took in the string change, but as it's necessary to repeat. On the last page of the vote, as a proposal for XII, it is stated that this Decision should be repealed. Here there is an inconsistency that needs to be explained before the debate is over, because it must mean that what the Council of State has said is no longer an obligation, according to the government coalition's attitude to the vote. This is an attempt to get away from things that you really shouldn't get away from. One should have respected the Storting at this point, at least heavy respect for the conciliator, and not put us in such a situation as this debate has revealed. Finally, to the representative Tybring-Gjedde, about this with me and the autopilot and keeping the same post every year: then we are in case two. Tybring-Gjedde says the same in all foreign policy debates. He began his post by cheering on Boris Johnson. He is, of course, in his full right, but we know what that means: the United Kingdom out of the EU. That is, of course, the position that is Tybring-Gjeddes, that the European Union is not an institution that we really need, and that is, of course, something that just needs to be highlighted. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2559	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2564	My post concerns Document 8:140 S for 2018-2019, a proposal for a public evaluation of integrated strategic management in the defence sector. Today, the defence's top management is integrated with the ministry and is part of the integrated strategic management system. The Chief of Defence is also the top professional military adviser and head of the Defence Department. ISL was implemented after Stortinget's treatment of St.prp. No 45 for 2000–2001, where it was decided to introduce integrated strategic direction of defence. Emphasis was placed on the need for a significant reorganization of the entire management of the defence at the strategic level – the management of the defence at the strategic level should be strengthened and coordinated. As part of this, the defense chief was defeated, while the defense chief took up the role of both the top military adviser in the department and the visible chief of the defence military organisation. In short, the defense chief was put down, and the defense chief was transferred to the department. There is a significant transfer of power and authority from the Defence Military Organisation to the Ministry in that decision. Some of the things that have happened are summarised in a comment in the Innst. 388 S for 2011–2012 from Right, Advance Party and Christian People's Party. In summary, there is also: there has been a continuous adjustment of the scheme, not a systematic or external evaluation, significant changes in the model have been made compared to the assumptions of the original decision that the inspectors-general have moved out and they consider that the model is not satisfactory. They ask questions about governance, and they ask questions about the professional independence, responsibility, powers and integrity of the chief of defence. On 13 May 2013, a review of the ISL was promised by the right of the current representative of the wholesaler Ine M. Eriksen Soreide, provided that they came into government. A similar wording was also included in the Sundvolden platform. This has never been followed up. However, there is no less topical today, at a time of major changes in the security policy image that imposes even greater demands on the management of the Defence. Increased funding for Defence requires effective and targeted strategic-political and operational management of Defence. In the strictest sense, such an evaluation should focus on what is always most important in an emergency organisation, namely which organisation is best placed to ensure that the defence chief executive can best exercise his or her powers throughout the crisis spectrum, and then how this organisation has affected the defence chief’s role as independent professional advisor and head of staff. Through significant clean-up of operational responsibilities and responsibilities for power generation, it is high time this reflected the integrated strategic management model, although many believe that there should be a sharp distinction between operational and strategic management.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2577	If the Central Party wants to cut into defence management, they may not have to cut the Ministry of Defence budget. Ten years ago, the army chief then went out into the media and announced that the Army was so small that in a traditional scenario it could hope to defend a city in Oslo or areas from the Majorstudio to Røa. Today we have heard three posts from the opposition where it is said that the Army is too small to hold an opponent until NATO is in place. This, of course, is too bad, but just as much a significant improvement from the time when the Army could only defend a small town in the capital. Now it's good to remember that the Army shouldn't be left alone about the Defense in our country. We also have air, sea and cyber forces, Home and Special Forces, all of which are important capacities, which together have to lower a possible opponent. I agree with those who say that our defence is not large enough to carry out their duties. We still have a significant way to go. New tanks and new helicopters for the Army are high on the wish list. When the opposition criticises the government to weaken the Army in the north by moving helicopters to Rygge, it is good to remember that helicopters in the south will strengthen the ability of the special forces to solve their missions in an even better way. In most scenarios, especially in the hybrid domain, there's a greater probability that we need to deploy the special forces than we can use the Army. Moving helicopters will therefore, in my view, help to strengthen our national ability to withstand external and internal threats. At the same time, I believe, as mentioned, that the Army should be given new helicopters. Now that I have failed to press the Minister of Defense for new helicopters, it is because the Air Force is already facing a very demanding transition. They shall phase in the fighting aeroplane F-35, the NH90 and AW101 helicopters and the surveillance aeroplane P-8 Poseidon. In addition, the Air Force shall phase out four aeroplane types. These are particularly demanding tasks for a small organisation, for the requirements of flight safety and operational development and disposal of aeroplanes shall not be sacrificed. I am among those who are impatiently waiting and working for the defence to be returned to a size that is timeless independent of the fluctuations in external threat images and natural for a country like Norway. While I'm impatient, I'm impressed by the government's power of action when it comes to phase in new and modern weapon systems and surveillance capabilities. Not least the decision to purchase and phase-in artillery is exemplary. From project VIDAR was decided until the first weapon systems were in place in Norway, it took only five years. This is a short time for the purchase of this type of system. The decision to buy the surveillance aircraft P-8 Poseidon went even faster and also showed a great deal of action. We are going to build a strong Norwegian defence because it is anti-conflict.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2592	It was asked questions from Per-Willy Amundsen here instead of whether the Workers' Party has been radicalized because we do not agree with them in the Palestine question. I can cancel that. The Workers' Party is not radicalized, we're more contentious than NATO. We're for the ordinary, we're for the government's line in that matter so far. I stood here in the line exchange and could not have honoured the foreign minister's initiative in the curriculum matter more if I had carried ants and incense to her and called her the world's best girl. What's radical is that the government parties in the notes here go against the line we've had to now. Since Norwegian support does not go to the syllabus, I do not think there will be a better syllabus of poorer school buildings. I don't think there's going to be a better syllabus because teachers will no longer be trained in ethics, human rights and non-violence, which Norwegian money actually goes to. Amundsen asked me for a source reference to the claim that I made in the linecode exchange, that the syllabus is already being changed. That source is the Minister of Foreign Affairs himself in an answer to a written question, where she writes: ‘According to the Palestinian educational authorities, many of the critical examples are no longer included in the school books.’ As I said, we want to continue the line that Norway has led to now, with dialogue and international initiatives. I am not radicalized, I disagree with the Advancement Party, and that is the vast majority – it is quite common.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2604	The representative Tybring-Gjedde called for my view of Donald Trump. I thought few questions were more clear than that, and that it's only in the Progress Party that sometimes might be some enthusiasm for his presidency. It is absolutely right that SV is opposed to participating in American wars around the world, that we want to bring Norwegian forces home, and that we want a national turnaround in defence policy. Whether Trump agrees or disagrees with it, it doesn't matter to me. What matters to us is what is right for Norway. But precisely the sometimes confusing signals from the President of the United States should be most concerned about those who want a Norwegian defence and security policy that is the most dependent on the United States, and that is what has happened under this government: Norway has moved closer to Washington, made itself more dependent on the United States, at a time when political developments should indicate that they did the opposite. In addition, this is not ultimately a question of Donald Trump, but a question of some long-term trends moving towards greater tensions in NATO and between different Western countries, simply because the contradictions of interest have increased and the ambitions differ, and because the geopolitical centre of the world is moving towards Asia and away from Europe. It suggests that we get rid of the watershed in Norwegian foreign and defence policy and manage to have an informed debate on what the future will be, instead of the ritual outlines of which these debates are very often marked, where most parties believe that everything will remain as before. That's probably the only thing we can say for sure that's not going to be. My relationship with Donald Trump is as bad as it was before, if anyone were to cheat on it. Then we'll have to take the rest of the debate on defence and security policy in other arenas gradually. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the SV's group is going to vote in favour of the three solutions proposed by Red, which are distributed.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2617	My post is within the State budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The core of liberalism is the belief in freedom. This freedom does not stop at Svinesund. The right to a life of freedom does not have any national limitations. That is why it is so important that we fight for freedom abroad as well as at home in Norway. Today, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is only one of several departments with an international role. Nevertheless, the external budget is important, because it says something about us and what we want internationally. To live a self-chosen life in freedom, we must have democratic institutions that guarantee that freedom. In order for freedom to be real, however, much more is needed. We must have real opportunities to live the life we want ourselves. Poverty is today the challenge that more than anyone challenges people's personal freedom. Poverty makes it difficult for young people to take up education, for adults to find work and for older people to live their lives the way they want it. Poverty is a challenge when we want to solve the climate crisis, and when we want to facilitate equivalency, the spread of power and the belief in the future. This is why Norway has a clear mission in development policy. We must fight poverty. We fight poverty best by contributing to strong democratic institutions, sustainable tax bases and a world trade that allows people to trade goods and services across borders. That is why I am proud that this government has prioritised assistance so high that we will increase the 2020 budget by 1.4 billion. kr, equals 1 pst. of GNI. We give priority to those countries where the challenges are greatest, namely in sub-Saharan Africa. These are means that will serve the issue of freedom abroad, where poverty is the greatest challenge for people to live free, self-chosen lives. At the same time, we have seen that the climate and environmental challenge is not only ours, but that it also rocks the lives of billions of people with whom we share this earth. If we do not solve today's environmental and climate challenges, we must give the bill to our children and grandchildren. They're the ones who will no longer be able to travel and live where they want to, live the way they want, because we didn't make up for ourselves. Therefore, the Left is very clear that we are very pleased with the appropriations made, for example. 7 B.C.E. kr for environmental assistance. Climate and environmental challenges need to be addressed internationally, so it is good that Norway's development policy is also climate and environmental policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2632	I started my first post with the regret that one has put the debate on Document 8:140 S for 2018–2019, from the Central Party, into the budget debate. As we now approach the end of the debate, one might understand why I regret it. With the exception of the representative Fasterale, no one has mentioned it. So this is a proposal that the government party itself, as called by the Permanentraune representative, was very busy getting implemented a few years ago. What has changed your mind then? Is it bureaucracy that comes closer to the inside, or what? Well, we don't know, because no one has taken the word, we don't get an explanation, and we don't know why one has the positions. A debate is not requested. In this respect, one might also say that the debate on the budget itself has been a leap in the right direction, but it is also often the case that a debate on the budget is going on, depending on the number of people who focus on the different elements, and it must be legal. A moment that the representative of Kolberg was in, I want to go inside, too, and that's the privatisation that the government is doing. There have been savings, it is claimed, that one has looked, among other things. Purity. How much is that saving? How big is it, and how is it used? What are the consequences for those who have received these services? At least we've seen some of them through the media, and it's not so very uplifting. When it comes to the representative of the Harek Rivers, I now understand why he traveled home from the United States one day before – he had to upload to the ‘a cruel Sambe’ against the Center Party on many points. I'm not going to take those points - it's up to the representative. But when he says that we want to cut a little bit in common functions, are both irresponsible and many other characteristics, I have to remember the red tape reform that the government has now done year after year. Isn't it just to cut red tape? And now the representative here is Elves as the greatest defender of bureaucracy. Is it so that the government calls it a red tape reform, but does the cut actually go into that pointed end? We in the Center Party have strengthened the operational part of the Defense. We also believe that it is very important to continue this reinforcement. We need more soldiers, we need better equipment. So it was very surprising that the representative from the Right and the government criticise us for cutting a little bit in red tape.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2647	The representative Per-Willy Amundsen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2652	As is known, Rome was not built in one day, but it burned down in one night. In many ways, it was the state the defense was in when this government took over in 2013 – if I don't want to say empty, it's not far away. But what the government has done after that time is the long-term build-up of the Defense, which takes time, and which now, hopefully, in the next planning period, is accelerating even more. That is why I think it is sad that the Workers' Party has an attitude in this Chamber today that is difficult to recognise when you accuse the government and government parties of a breach of contract, which is not correct. I ask the Workers' Party to raise its eyes, look forward and work with the government parties to strengthen the Defence in the time to come. Then to the representative Christensen. She wants dialogue and no action. That's how we recognize the Working Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2661	The representative Tybring-Gjedde has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2667	To the representative Lysbakken, who had excellent ‘doublespeak’ here now instead: I wonder who is going to defend Norway. Who is to be rescued by Norway? Or will SV build up a defense that can do it itself? It'll be interesting to know. Who's gonna stand and save our allies in NATO? Shall we just say that no, we take care of ourselves, no one else should care about it, we're going out of NATO? And how can American warriors become American warriors if the Americans are going out? That's exactly what was the point of Trump, that he wouldn't be in these wars that the Light Hill thinks they should be in, so the argument doesn't apply anymore. In the Transatlantic Forum, which we come from now, it was for the Middle East that «we cannot win the war, but we cannot leave», and that should reflect slightly on the Light Hill.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2676	The representative of the Elves was standing here in the pulpit and went to the frontal attack on Norwegian customs protection and called for increased imports of food. It would have been nice if the representatives who are here from the government, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and also from the Christian People's Party in the Chamber had clarified what the government's view is, because the government statement says different things in different chapters related to customs protection. In the agricultural chapter, it says that one is committed to safeguarding import protection; in the commercial policy it says that a job is to reduce customs protection in different areas. After the ointment that the representative of the Elves came with towards the Central Party here, there is reason to get a clarification from the government of what is the government's policy. So to the argument that Riveres is calling for, that it is the poorest in the world who would benefit from Norway's weakening of import protection. No, on the contrary. Firstly, it is important to have an international framework that allows each country to produce food for its own population, but secondly, it is important that we have strong import protection in Norway, so that one can give preference to those countries that are the poorest. It is when one weakens import protection, that one distorts imports towards the EU and some other major exporters of food in the world, at the expense of the poorest countries in the world, who have previously had preferences. This includes, inter alia: The new Mercosur agreement, negotiated by the government, is also at great risk of the situation of ever-increasing rounds of negotiations with the EU on Article 19, which one has through the EEA. In principle, there should be a mutually balanced development in trade, but trade has gone one way: increasing imports and increasing imbalances. So, finally, to the representative of Kolberg, who has a lot of concern about Brexit: the most important thing Norway can learn from Brexit is that we never have to join the EU, instead of joining the EU, and then found out after a few decades that it was not a particularly good idea, and then tried to get out again in the best possible way. What the British people have done is to say the same thing as the majority of the Norwegian people have said, that they do not want to be a member of the EU. Yes, they want to be part of international cooperation, they want to build new trade relations, but they don't want to be overrun by the EU, as they have become with membership, and as we also become through the EEA.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2687	What's very unclear after today's debate is what the government really thinks about the 2nd Battalion, because it's about standing forces that we have. It has been important for all those in charge of defence policy in recent years, to have more standing forces, because alert times are falling, and when we bring down the number of standing forces in inner Troms, the Norwegian defense is getting weaker, not stronger. In particular, I believe that the balance is being distorted. I'm for American soldiers training on a six-month basis in inner Troms, but I think it's a wrong signal that there are more Americans training, while we're taking down the number of standing forces ourselves. So why in the world can't the government today join the opposition and say that this proposal stops us? The signals are there: Riveres says it in the VG now, and in the defence minister's posts he was out and said you shouldn't take it down right away. Why in the world can't we put this proposal on the shelf? Is it because right-wing defence politicians have simply lost, not just this time, but several times internally in the government, about money for defence? It can hardly be a single person who is concerned with a strengthened defense who, with all his heart, wants to turn the 2nd battalion into a ring-to-arm. It's not like the opposition has found out that the Storting's proposal is now being put on the ice. This is, of course, a unanimous control committee on the proposal for unaccompanied tanks. We assume that the Army should have modern tanks, it says in the decision of the Stortinget. It has not been followed up, says the Control Committee, a unanimous control committee – also with the representatives of the government parties. Nor has the proposal for the 2nd Battalion been followed up from Stortinget. Here I think right-wing defence politicians can explain what they really mean. What is the reason for taking down the 2nd Battalion, without even having a decision on it in the Defense – no, I meant in the Stortinget, in the Defense they had never had a decision on anything like this! What's the reason for that? Or is it that you just mumble and hope that it goes over, because you're going to rematch internally in the government? There are no good reasons for defence policy to reduce the number of forces in inner Troms.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2698	First, to document 8 on integrated strategic management, in which I fully agree with Mr Navarsete's representative, should also have his rightful light and his fair share of the debate here today. This may not be what Mr Fasteraune says, but we have proposed to examine it with integrity, but we have proposed that an evaluation should be carried out. We have also carried out this evaluation, through the long-term plan we are now in. As late as 2018–2019, we also changed the model. It was then that we looked at the role and responsibilities of the defence manager when it came to both strategic ICT and the investment processes in the sector. It comes as a natural part of that we have had some things up that made us have to take a closer look at it. Common understanding of roles and responsibilities is important, and I record that the members of the Committee of the Centre Party and SV among others. will consider the impact of the relocation of the inspectors-general to their own defence departments. I must then be allowed to stress that the Storting decision to set up integrated strategic management did not include the general inspectors, or the chief of forces they are now called. Integrated strategic management involves the integration of the Defence Manager and his strategic staff with the Department. The chief executives were part of the defense team and are not part of the department. One would like to suggest that the heads of forces should be brought into the department – that would be a centralisation for the Centre Party, which would be surprising to a great many. So to the question of outsourcing, we're saving 100 million. kr per year on, traded in defence. Finally, to the Light Hill, about the turn towards the United States: there I disagree. We're closer to NATO now, simply because it's more focused on NATO – that's the security situation. NATO is more focused on the North Atlantic, on the old alliance mission of securing strategic lines of communication and supply across the Atlantic. We are also working more closely in NORDEFCO – Nordic defence cooperation is closer now than it has ever been, precisely because the security situation is such that you see a need for it, given the understanding that a crisis or a conflict that hits one Nordic country will hit several Nordic countries. The time is just like this. We are closer to the Nordic-Baltic countries, and we are closer to the major nations of Europe: we are working in the Framework with Germany, JEF with the United Kingdom and EI2 with France. So the security situation, uncertainty and unforeseeability are so great today that we are working closely with many of the Western and Allied countries, just to provide security for our citizens – creating greater security for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2711	I'm just quick up to fix a mistake. The representative Per-Willy Amundsen was up and deliberately bugged me to make a rhetorical point. What I was really saying was that the Workers' Party supports dialogue and international initiatives, as the government has done with the Georg Eckert study, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs did when she took up the syllabus in meeting Palestinian self-government authorities in the autumn. This is an action supported by the Workers' Party, and international initiatives are also actions. I think it's a shame if we, as big-time politicians, deliberately mistake each other to make points. It's enough of organizations and people who want to make polarization on purpose, and create contradictions that don't exist in our society. We have a responsibility to maintain a dialogue that is proper and despicable, in order to set an example for the public debate in Norway to continue to be an ok standard.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2718	The representative of Haarek Rivers has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2723	It is a fact that one of the main obstacles to developing developing developing developing countries is that they cannot take advantage of their comparative advantages, among others. through agriculture. Customs barriers make it difficult. So to the representative Lightbakken, to get rid of the watering in foreign policy. The policy that has been pursued here since the war, which has helped Europe and Norway to maintain peace for 70 years, can easily be taken into account. If there's someone who should get rid of the watering system, maybe it's SV and its notorious resistance to NATO. To the representative of Huitfeldt, who is not in the room – and this is not the first time – I would say that the 2nd Battalion lives in the best of luck, but the 2nd Battalion has to complete the soldier intake several times a year and withdraw the recruiting training from the department, as the problem today is that the 2nd Battalion is not sufficiently operationally large parts of the year.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2732	The representative Bengt Fasterale has held the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2737	It has been 20 years since the adoption of integrated strategic management, and if nothing significant has happened since 2013, both the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People’s Party agree that such public evaluation should be carried out. Yes, something has happened in 20 years. At the time we had regiments, we had district orders, we had power producers, we had a whole bunch of sticks that were around the whole country. This is tightened up, and that's good. But when this is trimmed up, it is not said that you are talking about moving the rods back in to Oslo. Perhaps someone should be willing to look at the relationship between operational/operational management and strategic management. Perhaps the head of defence can leave the department and be with his operational commanders. There should be something that could be a question in that evaluation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2744	The representative Sigbjørn Gülsvik has spoken the word twice before and gets the word to a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2749	To the representative of the Republic of Elvenes: in order to ensure the ability of the least developed countries to export agricultural products, it is precisely important to maintain customs protection and to give priority to customs freedom for the least developed countries, as has been the case with Norway. What is now on the table, for example through the new EFTA Agreement with Mercosur, is that Mercosur countries will have an exclusive right to use a quota allocated to developing countries. The Mercosur countries will have a quota of 500 tonnes of beef and fillets. Today there is NOK 100 in reduced customs duties on this, Mercosur countries will get zero customs duties through the new agreement. These are some of the largest agricultural exporting countries in the world. It is not to give priority to least developed countries. In addition, one in new rounds of negotiations with the EU must ensure reduced imports from the EU. It would be to give priority to the poorest.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2759	The representative Audun Lightbox has held the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2764	I just wanted to thank you for the many comments I made. I'm positive about it, because then I've smoked a little bit in the government parties, and that's good, because that's exactly the habit of these debates, I want to get alive. In this debate, there is no trace of the real debate that exists, including in NATO, on the way forward, on the real contradictions of interest between Member States. It is not good for Norway if we do not discuss this, but instead later as if it does not exist. A good illustration of it is that what I have said in this debate, which has triggered all these reactions, is not near being as critical to NATO as what the French President has said.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2771	The representative Live Signe Navarsete has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2776	After I settled down again, I thought that I would almost have to respond to it with an eye-catching and irresponsible procurator's grip when the Center Party has cut off the path to Evenes. Even is being expanded as a good QRA. The majority also doubt that it should be expanded as the base for P-8. So the same representative says that we should then put money into investment in Andøya. But the air station on Andøya works. The airstation on Andøya works well today. We have been in the United States now, and so does the representative of Harek Elvenes. They're still away on Andeya and easy well, boast. One could also have asked questions as to why one has postponed the offer for the development of the hangar by October 2020. I have not heard that someone has mentioned anything about why this has happened. It was supposed to be out these days. I think we'll see a lot more about both the releases and the increase in costs of that project.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2783	No more people have asked for the word on the matter. 6-8.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2799	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the government. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to three rows will be given, with replies from members of the government, and those who would have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2808	The case concerns a new law on access to information for the external investigation panel relating to the incorrect practice of access to sick pay, redundancy benefits and care allowance when staying in another EEA country, the so-called Nav legal scandal. It is important to quickly get the law in place for the selection led by Finn Arnesen. The bill was approved by the Council of State on 22 November. I would like to thank the Committee for its very good cooperation, for its swift examination and for its unanimous proposal. The committee shall examine matters relating to the legislation implementing the Social Security Regulation which have been handled by the Labour and Welfare Act, the Social Security Court and in some cases — as far as it does not challenge their independence — by the prosecution authority and the courts. The aim of the sample is to carry out a thorough and complete review of the case, with a view to identifying how this could happen and take place over such a long period of time. The Ministry’s legislative proposal provides the selection with the necessary access to information to enable it to carry out its tasks in the best possible way. The legislative proposal contains rules on access to information, professional secrecy and legal basis for the processing of personal data for the sample and the prohibition on the use of information received by the sample, as evidence in subsequent legal proceedings. No obligation to provide information to the sample is proposed. The proposal regulates both the obligation of professional secrecy applicable to the sample and the possibility for the sample to communicate this information. The Committee proposes that all members of the sample and the secretariat of the selection should have access to personal data in a directly identifiable form. The Committee points out that the Ministry's legislative proposals require that public authorities, persons subject to professional secrecy and persons bound by professional secrecy on a different basis be able, without prejudice to the obligation of professional secrecy, to provide information to the sample. There is one important change made by the Committee and it has been incorporated in the Committee's recommendation for B. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to introduce an instruction to ensure that the sample is given access to the information that employees of the government and the underlying agencies may have’.» It's to find out the facts in the matter. It should have been unnecessary, but from experience it is necessary. By the latest in the internal review report, it was found that several employees asked if Nav had interpreted the EEA Agreement error in social security matters as early as 2014, but that the alerts were not taken forward. It appeared in the so-called experiential forum. I just want to stress that it is necessary to have the supplement to ensure that the alerts are not exposed to represals. The whole truth is going to come up with the facts in this case. I would ask the Council of State to confirm our understanding and to join the unanimous committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2834	Like the rapporteur, I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation on an important matter. I also think it is very important that there is a unanimous committee behind the recommendation, both the position and the opposition. It strengthens this case and that work. In the autumn we have presented a number of examples of public error. So far, we see that the errors have been made in Nav, the police, the Social Security Court, among defenders and by the courts. Individuals have been unlawfully exempted from social benefits, have been reported and prosecuted, even convicted without a legal basis. It is very serious and weakens the confidence of the rule of law and our institutions. There is no doubt that the law may be difficult to interpret, not least in cases where EU law has a bearing on how to understand Norwegian law and follow up the EEA Agreement. Errors can be made, but it is difficult to understand that such a major error was not discovered before. A consequential error has had major consequences for individuals over seven years, perhaps longer. What's important is we have to make sure that such a scandal can't happen again. Trust must be rebuilt. The state councils secured clean-up right away. Nav is working on finding out the issues involved. Money unduly suspended or called back has been withdrawn and legal aid has been established. That's good, but we have to bottom up and figure out how this could happen, how it has failed in so many terms over so long. That is why I am pleased that the government has set up an expert committee that has been commissioned to find a response to this, in addition to the fact that the Storting itself, through the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, has set up a case. Today we are discussing a legislative proposal to ensure the necessary access to information for the expert committee. Access has been adapted to the mandate of the Committee and the Committee agrees unanimously with the proposal. However, the Committee has noted that the Government proposes to exempt persons with professional secrecy or professional secrecy on a different basis from the obligation to explain themselves to the sample. The Committee considers that the gravity of the matter gives reason to stress that all necessary and relevant information must be provided so that we can ensure, as far as possible, that something similar does not happen again. For this reason, a unanimous committee has found it appropriate to ask the government to introduce an instruction to ensure that the sample has access to the information that employees of underlying agencies need to have. Now the review has to get started, so that we can find the reasons why this could happen. The intent of the great thing with this law is very clear: everything must go forward, and all stones must be turned.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2849	I'll be pretty short. I just want to say that in this review it is very important that no one added or anyone else who can or has something to contribute, is not hindered by any kind of loyalty obligation or fear of being completely honest and saying what they have to say. I have to point out that it's a little strange that there's a limit here to what kind of statements you're going to look at in the review. There's a long line of social security services where there shouldn't be any limit to what to look at, I think. I choose not to do this, because the government has chosen to control the investigation itself. But I think this should have come from Stortinget. With that, I left the rest of the process in the control committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2858	I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in ensuring the necessary access to information for the Committee for External Examination of the case relating to the incorrect application of legislation for certain benefits in EEA countries. In such a serious case, it is important that relevant information is made available for examination and illuminated, while providing information on the confidentiality of personal data for the sample. We know that trust is important in order to get all the facts on the table, and especially in a matter like this, trust in the review must be raised above any doubt. When the council also says that all the stones should be turned around, and that all the information should be on the table, it's because we're primarily going to prevent something similar from happening again. Therefore, we need to understand the whole process. It's not to point a finger, because as everyone already knows, it's precisely because the failure here was – or at least seems to be – basic systemic. Although one may refer to individual cases in the Social Security Court or to changes in practice after some cases, there have not been strong enough signs of neither the scope nor the seriousness of wrong practices. We are pleased that the Ministry took the initiative very quickly towards the Storting both to brief and not least to set up an external audit committee. The size was given, albeit with a little bit of time, the opportunity to record both mandates and selections. In the context of this matter, the Committee has also agreed on a proposal for instructions to ensure the choice of access to information available to employees in the service and the underlying departments. This is affected in the proposition, but we still stress the importance of this today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2869	I would also like to start by thanking the Committee on Rapid and Effective Procedures on a matter that is very important for us to be put in place quickly. The Committee of Experts, chaired by Professor Finn Arnesen, shall examine the matter relating to the misuse of the right to receive short-term benefits when staying in another EEA country. The sample shall carry out a thorough and complete review of the mispractice of access to these benefits when staying in another EEA country. All relevant aspects of the case shall be clarified. The committee has started its work and, in this context, has a need for institutions to ensure the availability of the necessary information, including information related to confidentiality. It is very important to ensure that the sample has access to all information deemed necessary in order to make it as thorough and good a job as possible. The law grants the selection both the right to obtain and process information and, at the same time, the obligation of professional secrecy in line with the rules of the Administrative Act, with certain limited exceptions. The committee will have access to sensitive personal data in its work and it is open for the sample to process such data without consent. It is therefore important that the sample is bound by an equivalent level of professional secrecy to that to which the data providers are subject. The regulation of these issues has been addressed in the same way as for previous and corresponding samples, inter alia. the selection of child violence and the selection of partners. The legislative proposal does not include an obligation to provide information to the sample, even after the same reading as the regulation of those samples. I state that the law allows public authorities, persons who are subject to professional secrecy and persons who are bound by professional secrecy on a different basis to provide information to the selection without prejudice to the obligation of professional secrecy. However, I would also like to ensure that an instruction is given to ensure selected access to information that employees in the service and the underlying offices may have. This is in line with the Committee's position. I aim that the instructions will be in place as soon as possible. The Committee has started its work and shall present its investigation to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the Ministry of Justice and Defence by 1 June 2020. The selection shall also account for learning points identified, including: in order to ensure the legal certainty of persons receiving Nav’s benefits. To the comment from the representative Lerbreck, I would just like to stress that the sample can also obtain information about other benefits.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2884	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2889	I am pleased that the Council of State will introduce an instruction, and I am pleased that information can be accessed. But I want to ask the Council of State if she agrees with the Committee that what is the point of the instruction is to bring out the whole and full truth from employees in the civil service and the underlying agencies, and that the whole purpose of the instruction is that there should be no kind of sanctions against management employees if employees, on their own initiative, tell the full and complete truth about what has happened over all these years.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2894	Yes, I can say another affirmative yes. It is important for us to get to the bottom of this matter. There is also a background to the fact that the committee has a very wide and open mandate to look at all aspects of the handling of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, the handling of the Court of Social Security, the handling of the Nav and also up to the courts. We have very few limitations – if any limitations, in fact – in the mandate, just to make sure that we get to the bottom of when this happened, how it could happen, and not least how we can avoid this happening in the future. The matter is serious, it affects many people, it has been made a mistake at several levels of government over many years, and it is important that we now have an open mandate and a wide range of powers so that we get to the bottom of the matter in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2900	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2914	The size is then ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2926	A total of 15 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Lene Vågslid on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, the proposals No 3 and 4, from Lene Vågslid on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 5 and 13, from Lene Vågslid on behalf of the Workers' Party, the proposals No 6 and 7, from Emilie Enger Mehl on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 8 and 9, from Emilie Enger Mehl on behalf of the Centre Party, the proposals No 10–12 and 14–15, from Petter Eide on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 14, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests to inform each Norwegian citizen that they have received their personal data when travelling by air illegally identified by PST.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2964	There is a vote on proposal No. 15, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is immediately asked to ensure that those potentially affected by the Nav scandal receive free assistance from independent lawyer before any further handling of their cases in Nav.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2983	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e2988	Then we take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e3000	There is a vote on proposal No. 13, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to build up police resources and competences on honorary violence in order to better detect and combat this serious form of crime.’ The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e3018	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 10–12, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that each prison has an offer for a detention centre.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to earmark sufficient funds for police district investigations into violence in close relations and rape.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘In the light of the Nav scandal, the Government asks the extension of the mandate of the Legal Aid Committee, with the aim of strengthening the legal aid system, as well as ensuring that the lack of legal certainty and incorrect application of the social security system that has been revealed by the Nav scandal are followed up by proposals for legal aid measures that may help to ensure that this does not happen again.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e3047	There is a vote on proposal No. 9 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to the Grand Duchy with an assessment of whether police training in Kongsvinger should be restored.’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e3062	There is a vote on proposal No. Eight, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Government to secure Mold Dinghui’s defensive courtrooms.’ The Socialist Left and Red have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e3079	There is a vote on proposal No. 6 from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Government to quickly facilitate the expansion of Vik and Hustad prisons, as well as the design of Sunnmøre and Ilseng prisons.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e3096	There is a vote on proposal No. 7, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide alternatives to today’s subscription scheme to ensure that small and medium-sized municipalities no longer find themselves in a disproportionate financial situation. State co-financing must be assessed.’;» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e3114	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to assess the system of professional compensation for employees in criminal matters in the same way as police employees.’;» The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e3131	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 and 4 from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked within the current budgetary framework to facilitate the non-use of duplication in criminal justice.’;» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to take the initiative in an economic escalation plan for criminal services, aimed at providing the necessary resources for the implementation of sanctions among prisoners throughout the country. The action plan shall be drawn up in close cooperation with employees’ organisations, relevant professional communities and relevant non-governmental organisations related to criminal law. The action plan must contain concrete and binding measures in these areas: A concrete, comprehensive and forward-looking plan for the further development of all aspects of criminal justice. New methods of criminal justice. Analysis and assessment of the future need for different forms of criminal enforcement, including so-called open and closed spaces, free care and alternative forms of settlement such as electronic control. Measures to strengthen the content of compensation in order to ensure the functioning of the penalty, including an assessment of welfare services for prisoners, the principle of proximity and normality, interaction with victims and relatives, living conditions for prisoners, educational provision and programme activities, so that convicted persons can return to society as good neighbours after settlement. A special focus on female convictions as sons in prison. A special focus on young offenders and youth units. Measures to reduce the use of insulation.’» The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e3171	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that if children are sentenced to prison sentences, this should be done by organised youth units in the criminal justice system.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to facilitate the maintenance of today’s number of places for students at the Police College.’ The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e5615	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e5711	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e5725	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e5730	I didn't get any gravy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e5735	Then we take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e5782	Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e5794	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e5808	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e5976	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e5986	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e6182	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e6192	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e6301	It is first voted on Section 29. The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e6315	All remaining Roman numerals and paragraphs are added.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e6326	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e6336	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e7120	The Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e7139	In the course of the debate, a total of five proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Liv Signe Navarsete on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Audun Lightbakken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 3-5, from Björn Moxnes on behalf of Red The President noted that proposal No. 4 is available in amended version. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 and 4, from Red. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to recognise Palestine as its own country.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that return agreements for persons without a legal stay in Norway are not used as a condition for receiving assistance from Norway.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e7177	There is a vote on proposal No. 5 from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to ensure that organisations which have expressed support for the BDS campaign against the violation of Israel’s international law are not excluded from Palestinian development support schemes.’ [[boikott, disinvestments and penalties]] The Labour Party, the Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e7194	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the cancellation of the planned order of six new fighter aeroplanes.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e7211	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the suspension of the conversion of the 2nd Battalion into the Brigade of North Norway from a battalion based on the obligation to protect a 1-year mobilization battalion, from 2021 to 2022, and with the maintenance of the 2nd Battalion setup at this time’.» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e7229	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e10764	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e10783	During the debate, Liv Signe Navarsete has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to launch a public evaluation of integrated strategic leadership in the defence sector.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e10887	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e10897	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-12.ana.ud266e10925	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
