ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e57	From the Workers' Group there is an application for a care permit for the representative Tuva Moflag between 12 and 15 years. November. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The first alternate of Akershus County, Mani Hussaini, is convened to meet during the leave of 12 to 14 days. November.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e77	From the Prime Minister's office there is the following letter to Stortinget dated 8 November 2019: «The Council of State Monica Mæland takes over, in addition to the matters she manages in the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, the matters of the Council of State Torbjørn Røe Isaksen manages in the Ministry of Food and Fisheries. The takeover is valid for the period during which Council of State Røe Isaksen terminates two weeks of parental leave. The Prime Minister’s office will send the Stortinget a letter when the leave starts.’;» The referenced letter shall be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e95	The representative of Arild Grande will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e100	On behalf of the representatives of Rigmor Aasrud, Lise Christoffersen, Elise Bjørnebeck-Waaagen, Magne Rommetveit and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for cleaning up the rental code.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e105	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e123	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e141	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee for being able to deal quickly with this important matter and for the broad consensus it has in it. Violence and abuse in close relationships are a major social problem, and it is a public health problem. In the worst cases, we see that such things also lead to killing. We have to turn all the stones to prevent this from happening. Preventing and combating violence and abuse in close relationships is a high priority. The establishment of the Partner Killing Committee is part of the government's escalation plan against violence and abuse. The peer-to-peer killings committee shall review cases where the perpetrator is at the time or a former partner. The aim is to identify and assess the extent and, where appropriate, whether failure has occurred in the handling by the public service operator before the cases. The recommendations of the Committee shall contribute to the prevention and prevention of future occurrences. We know that there have often been concerns. Several bodies have had knowledge and have been in a concrete relationship with a family or in a relationship between two persons. It could be the family protection offices, it could be the crisis centres, it could be child protection, it could be the police. Everyone may have known, but no one has seen the whole picture, and then it has such a big impact on it. We have to do everything we can to prevent that. In order for the sample to do its job, it is necessary that it has the necessary information. That they have access to this information, is what we're going to deal with here today. The legislative proposal contains specific provisions on access to information for the sample, the obligation of professional secrecy for the sample, the legal basis for the sample's processing of personal data and the prohibition of the use of data as evidence in subsequent criminal proceedings and civil proceedings. The Ministry has also assessed the relation of the proposition to human rights. I would like to say once again that I am happy that we will be able to deal with this matter quickly. I see that the sample now has the opportunity to get the information they need to continue their work. I also look forward to the final conclusion of the sample and the work they have done. It is important that we work together to do everything we can to prevent more people from being subjected to violence and abuse in close relationships with death.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e158	Preventing and combating violence in close relations is a high priority task for this government. I am therefore very pleased that the Committee unreservedly agrees with our proposal that this sample be given the opportunity to obtain silent information. This information will even more enable the sample to assess several issues in a context and provide a generally sound basis for comparison, systematic assessment and analysis. Drap stands in a special position, and it involves the ultimate intrusion of the individual. In 2018, 25 killings were committed in Norway. Six of the victims were partners or ex-partners to the perpetrator, and all six of the victims were women. It is also part of the picture that in the last two decades, partner killing has accounted for one quarter of all killings committed in Norway. We have long seen the need to obtain a broader knowledge base in this area. Oslo University Hospital at SIFER, National Centre of Competence for Security, Prison and Legal Spychiatry, in the South-East Health Region, carried out, on behalf of the Ministry of Justice and Defence, a research project on partner killing in 2015. This report showed that partner drops usually do not come without warning. In seven out of ten partner killing cases, partner violence has been recorded before the killing. Most victims and most perpetrators had tried to seek help from family, friends or other auxiliaries. Many of the survivors had tried to help. They had communicated concerns to the public auxiliaries, but they had not fully understood the seriousness. In just a few of the cases, the police, health services and other facilities had disclosed the information about violence and threats between themselves. The partner-drap study demonstrates that there is a high prevention potential in such partner-drap cases and that known risk factors are not taken sufficiently seriously. That's exactly what's behind the government appointing a partner killing committee. I hope that the work to be done in this sample will lead to a reduction in the number of partner drops in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e169	Selected and assaulted – partnardrap – is serious crime, and it is very worrying when we know that between 20 and 30 pst. of all killings carried out in Norway, is partnardrap. So this is an incredibly important thing. I only have a few questions. This selection was scheduled to deliver the setting in September 2019, so I wonder if the government can say a little if the work is delayed. Is it because the government has spent too much time bringing up the matter we're dealing with now? The Judicial Committee had to deal with this matter urgently, so I could think of an explanation of that. And when does this selection plan to come up with its actions? These are long-term measures that we have been waiting for. They shall take measures to prevent this improvement and to prevent the occurrence of Partnardrap in Norway. It would be nice for Stortinget to know why the delay has happened, and when the setting will be finished. It would be very nice if the council asked for the word, so we got an answer to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e178	It didn't happen that you were able to advance this matter before Stortinget took a summer vacation, and this has led to a delay, but there are other reasons as well. Now I do not have the exact date for when we can expect the work to be completed, but I can come back to that on a suitable occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e185	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e202	At the request of the Education and Research Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e209	The Committee has had a comprehensive examination of the SV’s proposal for a representative, which deals with both the Nesna College and the importance of decentralised study services in general. A Joint Committee agrees that universities and colleges have a broad social role and that higher education across the country is essential to ensure access to skilled labour. There is once again a prerequisite for maintaining residence, jobs and activities throughout the country. The Committee also agrees that universities and higher education institutions play an important role in regional development and growth. In view of the structural reform carried out in the higher education sector, and the consequences for universities, especially at the Nordic University, the Committee separates teams, and I believe that the individual parties will explain their views. The centre party already warned when examining the structural reform that it would result in the closure of study sites and the centralisation of activities. All these warnings were rejected at the time, in 2015. Today's situation shows us that we got it right. One-sided involvement in structural changes without at the same time discussing the purpose and quality of both universities and colleges had to go wrong. A narrow definition of quality and a lack of thinking about how professional training should be carried out made that clear. North universities and other new universities are in a very difficult economic situation. In this situation, however, one suggested that several places of study be closed, a breach of both the promises of the Stortinget and its own promises made by Nord universitet in connection with the merger with both the Nord-Trøndelag High School and the Nesna High School. It is urgent and under-financing that characterises the structural reform adopted in 2015 and that has put us in the situation we are today. The government and the government parties must be responsible for this. They pushed through this reform, and they did not contribute financially to the success of the merged colleges. In three to four years, Nord universitet was to carry out a conversion that other universities have spent several decades, and then it helps little to show in the setting that Nord received 9 pst. growth over the period 2013–2019, while UiO received 5 pst. UiO has had almost 100 years to build up until what they are today. So now we see the result, and these are the suggestions that the places of study in Nesna and Lake Sandneseen should be laid down. Further closures may also occur. Using autonomy as an argument for not going into the case is very remarkable. The government controls the study offer at other colleges. They refused Tromsø to have contact with Nesna. The left said in a meeting in Namsos last spring that the Council of State would make sure that Namsos was not closed. Clearly, the government is in charge of the university sector. The government controls the university sector through both study places and letters of assignment. Autonomy as an argument is an excuse. Autonomy is an explanation. Autonomy is just a big word and a fig leaf that does not cover the fact that this government is unable to lift a finger to maintain the college in Nesna. Last weekend I read an article where representatives from the so-called bulwark guerrilla used strong words about the closure. They said they felt tricked, ransacked and abandoned. Those are strong words, but I can understand it. They feel tricked because the merger agreement gave the impression of something other than what became the reality, they feel humiliated for the capital that Nesna had with her seagoing college, and they feel abandoned by a political majority who are unable to do anything to maintain the study offer. This government contributes through the decision to defuse Helgeland. They destroy a well-functioning place of study, and they increase the risk of lack of qualified teachers and nurses across the region. It's sad to look at. What's also serious is that the government with this gives the signal to other universities that it's allowed to try. New closures of study places may come, simply because the government has abdicated on this issue. The Central Party considers that all governing decisions on possible termination of study sites should be submitted to the Stortinget. We believe that the funding system needs to be changed so that non-discretionary funding in itself makes it difficult to maintain places of study. With that, I would like to address the suggestions made by the Central Party in the vote, and also inform you that the Central Party will vote in favour of proposal No. 9 from Red.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e241	The representative of Marit Arnstad has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e246	It is worrying to see that the opposition has such a deplorable way of dealing with the responsibilities of directors and such a urge to govern the universities and colleges in detail. We in the government parties are critical of overarching from government and corruption, and in education and research, free institutions are particularly important. At a time when the Academy is under pressure from political forces in many parts of the world, it is particularly important that we circle around institutional freedom, which is a prerequisite for real academic freedom. The SV's proposal to stop the adopted change in the location structure of the Nordic University was voted down, not because we thought it was a good idea, but because we believe it is crucial that we, as policymakers, respect the laws that we ourselves have adopted. The University and Higher Education Act states that the Board of Directors of an institution is responsible for setting up the strategy, defining the organisation and allocating the resources. Of course, we have a clear expectation that the governments also emphasise their regional responsibility and facilitate decentralised education. Regional development was also one of the objectives of structural reform. The Structural Communication stressed that it would also be up to the institutions themselves and their board in the future to assess the implications of an appropriate study location structure. There was broad political agreement on the basics of the Structural Communication when it was addressed by the Stortinget. Government rates on flexible non-campus education and flexible continuing training provision. The aim is to facilitate access to higher education for more people without having to study regularly at a university or university campus. It must be up to universities and universities to carry out that mission in the best possible way, with the resources of government and accumulation at all times allocated to this purpose. The 2020 budget proposes a commitment to North University of 1.5 billion. kr. The proposal includes a permanent increase of 10 million. kr for, among others strengthening the quality of the merger and 20 new places of study. It should help Nord University to continue to develop in a positive direction, without the Storting holding hands. It's touching to hear the Workers' Party's mantra to secure free and independent universities and colleges throughout the country, and they're almost able to hold that position. The proposal they are promoting seems to have the best intention of strengthening the wide range of professional training and practical research to ensure access to decentralised education across the country. But they're assuming that it's the Storting that's going to order the government to make a plan of access to decentralised education, and Nesna is going to be part of it. What about Namsos, Sandness Lake, Verdal and other campers around Norway? And what happened to the free universities and colleges? What role should they play in this plan? Have we thought about the consequences if we in Stortinget were to give leadership to the UH sector about where and what education to offer at all times around the country, regardless of our knowledge of the needs of the labour market, the recruitment of students and employees locally and the quality of education? Should we also review the quality assessments of NOKUT in order to maintain study offers? No, it shows a little too much self-confidence when the Stortinge claims that the Stortinge has the best competence to control detail Education-Norway. Perhaps it is time to reduce the intake of Möller’s Tran for a while to come?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e261	This is a matter that has aroused interest and attention also beyond the region's borders, and there has been a great commitment from both citizens, the media and elected representatives. The background for today's case is linked to the structural reform adopted by this House by an overwhelming majority in 2015. There has been almost a cross-political agreement over time that Norway has had too many small, vulnerable professional environments and too many scattered, small training facilities with failed recruitment. Structural reform was implemented to enhance the quality of education and research, and further, it was an important objective that access to higher education should be good across the country and that the regional role of institutions should be further developed. Education and research policies are, in principle, not district policies, for the idea has been that regardless of where the training is offered, they should primarily be anchored in solid professional environments and maintain high quality. At the same time, it has been important for Stortinget to stress that there is a clear expectation that governments will consider several factors before making their decisions, for example: quality criteria, application rates, development and the needs of society and the region. The Progress Party has also been involved in the societal mission of educational institutions and that we should have a study offer tailored to the needs of regional employment. Nord universitet was established on 1 January 2016. I understand those who now live in the region who say they feel cheated, and that today they would not be positive to a merger agreement. It was probably none of those involved in the process, who saw that it would be a realistic scenario to drop out of study places already a few years after the agreements were signed. This could have consequences for the housing and labour market in an entire region, and I understand the concern of many of them. Nesna's got too much on her, for example. housing prices for the future. These are concerns that should be taken seriously. As the University Board just a few years ago signed a merger agreement saying that we should strengthen and develop the places of study, while we know that they have a ten-year lease in Nesna, I would, if I were on the board, recommend that they try to see if they can try to keep operations at the place of study for a few more years, to see if the basis for the decision on termination had changed. However, the board has chosen not to do so, but I note that Nord University believes that they are now going to achieve higher implementation and better quality and be able to train more teachers and more nurses. They are closest to assessing the decision-making basis and the consequences of their decisions, and I hope that this will be the result: that we get more teachers and more nurses in the region as a result of this decision. What, after all, is the social responsibility of university governments is to provide quality education to meet the needs of the region. The progress party has had a good deal to do with this matter. We have fallen down, although this is a heavy and very difficult matter, that we will not overstep the principle that university governments themselves should put strategies, manage their resources and decide the organisation. It is in line with the Progress Party's view on more target management and less detailed management, and we do not want to open the door for the Stortinge to govern in detail where universities and colleges should be located and what study offer they should have. The Boards are responsible for assessing the places of study and how education and research are to be organised. It is the governments that know their own needs, limitations and opportunities best, and therefore it is the governments that have been given responsibility for the organisation of the institutions. This means that they are also responsible for making the difficult decisions, not just the easy ones and the popular ones. Finally, I would like to point out that it is the government that grants the money for higher education in Norway. We politicians have a responsibility to make sure that this money is managed sensibly. We take that responsibility, not by giving detailed guidance to individual universities and colleges, but by providing funding for the state budget, letters of allocation and necessary reforms, such as structural reform. There is a great disparity between the many universities and colleges, there is a diversity in the sector, and the institutions are scattered throughout the country. Each institution itself knows best how to organise the study offer. The principal and the board are responsible for this. Such detailed management cannot be taken by politicians. Then we also have to live with the fact that Vice-Chancellors and Governors decide things that many of us politicians don't like.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e278	On 26 June, the Board of Directors of the North University chose to close the Nesna campus and the training of nurses in Lake Sandness. This Governing Decision is a serious blow to the bow of the district councils’ ability to acquire qualified teachers and nurses. It is a centralising decision, and it will also help to make many municipalities less attractive to establish themselves in. The lack of teachers and nurses affects the entire community and the basic welfare needs of people. Few want to live in a place where health services and schools are run by unskilled people. There is a great shortage of teachers and nurses in the Nordic countries and in the country in general. We know that over 60 pst. of the students who train somewhere, take up work near where they have taken their education. That is why it is so important that we have educational institutions located in the whole country, and this is a political responsibility. This case is very special, because there was a merger agreement on the basis of which the Nordic University was established. The merger agreement confirmed the continuation and further development of the study sites, and the Structural Communication concluded that there would be fewer institutions but not fewer places of study. Now that Nord University is shutting down campus Nesna and nursing training in Lake Sandness, there is a breach of the merger agreement, which said that the study places would become more important in their regions. And here we stand, after only three years – three years – with a closure decision that will rage a whole community, and that will reinforce the trend in a region that is already struggling to obtain qualified nurses and teachers. Over 101 years, Nesna has trained thousands of teachers, and eventually kindergarten teachers, in the region. A strong trade union environment is being built to solve the mission, and the state has recently made large investments in construction and infrastructure tailored for the purpose. It is not possible to move this professional environment out of the region, or, for that matter, to another place in the region. The business environment will be confused, and the socio-economic losses will become formidable. And the consequences for Nesna will be impossible to bear, both for the municipality and for the many who are affected. The whole of Helgeland has protested at the closure of teacher training at Nesna and nurse training in Lake Sandness. A total Nordland county has protested. The NRK has conducted a survey in Northern Ireland showing that 70 pst. of the entire population of the Nordic region is against closure. Four weeks ago, we had a plenary debate in this room. Then this representative said, completely without good meteorological skills, that it brews up to a storm along the coast – both because of the decision and because of the issues that in total paint a picture of a government that does not want people in North Norway well. And then I don't think about the employees of Nesna, who have every reason to think that this government doesn't want them well. Where I come from, we use to look out the window to see the weather. And if I look up at the gallery today, I see some amazingly dressed ladies from the people's reaction to higher education in Helgeland, who have been rocking in this storm, who have maneuvered both the shooting and the crew in a way that has set the national agenda, who have shown that we need teachers in the districts, and who have shown that we need lights in the houses and people in the school buildings. In this case, the Council of State should have learned from the people's reaction to higher education in Helgeland, standing in the storm, taking reefs in the sails and correcting the course. Instead, the state councils have hidden behind the rudder wall on a small navigable shot called autonomy. I'll take up the suggestion from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e303	The representative of Mona Fagerås then mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e308	When my grandmother was a teenager and lived in Finnmark, the Germans came and burned about everything. She got a very poor schooling and had some years at boarding school in the West, but because she had parents who pushed her to take education, she ended up teaching at Nesna. There she also met my grandfather, from a small village in Trøndelag, and together they got the basis for creating a very good life, with a solid education. This has been quite a long time since now, but it shows the importance of an accessible education offer for absolutely everyone in order to realize their good life. There is no doubt that the educational institution that we are talking about here today has had an incredibly central role in providing skills, not just in a part of the country, but in fact throughout the country. For the Left, it is important that all those who grow up in Norway have the opportunity and the freedom to take quality higher education. It might be more important now than ever before. It's about the individual's possibilities. In a world where the labour market is changing a lot, where very few people can count on having the same job all their lives, where the requirements of competence and specialisation are getting higher, we all really have to insist that we have to raise our formal competence, maybe several times in a lifetime. That's why we need to review the availability of our education system. It's no longer like all those who train are 18-19-year-olds who travel to a place of study and are there for three to five years, and then they go to the place where they're going to live for the rest of their lives. Most of us are not going to live that way. Universities and higher education institutions shall provide education to a much larger audience. There must be much more flexibility in what course you can take, what degrees you can put together, and also in how and where you study. But the institutions themselves are the ones to deliver these solutions, they are the experts. It is ultimately those who have to make the decision on how to design and structure the offer. Having higher education and high-quality research is about more than individual opportunities for education. It's also about our development as a nation and what we're going to contribute to the world, because it's through education and research that we can find answers to the major challenges we're facing. If Norway is to contribute to future solutions, we need strong institutions with a high quality of research. But there are also some people who have a little bit of hesitation that the important thing is not that we have educational institutions that deliver research articles to international journals. That's not what it's about, it's about training professionals of good quality, and it's the most important thing — for example. Good teachers. In this room, we often debate how important it is with good teachers, and what kind of competence they need from teacher training, and there is no way in which we make demands on what we should be able to do. I myself have worked at the two largest teacher training institutions in Norway, with large sections in all disciplines. Nevertheless, those educational institutions also lack, gaps and need to acquire new knowledge. Nor is it that the professionals are in line to work on our education. Often, there are challenges in recruiting, even in the big cities. If we are to have the very best teachers, the very best nurses, the best doctors and the best engineers, we must actually also have high-quality educational institutions, and that is the reasons that must mean all, most of all when universities and colleges decide on how to judge themselves for the future. Of course, we need good places to study all over the country, and we need decentralised campers. But the most important thing is not where campuses are, but that everyone — wherever they live — has access to higher education when they need it. I myself have trained teachers in the centre of Oslo who work in Troms or in Finnmark. So the most important thing is not where the campuses are, but that you have access to an offer. Of course, there is no doubt that shutting down Nesna is a demanding decision, and we all see that there is a decision that has a negative impact on the community. There is no doubt that with this Nesna loses important skills jobs, and there is nothing we should hide, but of course we have to look at other ways we can compensate for it. But it is primarily quality and availability that we must demand of our educational institutions – not the placement of campuses.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e325	In Northern and Helgeland there is a great need for teachers and nurses, and it is important for me to stress that in the committee's position, the red-green parties are united in a criticism of the government. The Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party are also agreed to continue their teacher training at Nesna. We're proposing a little bit of different models of how this can be done. We in the Workers' Party want to put more money on the table to be able to maintain teacher training at Nesna, and we want the government to set a comprehensive plan for decentralised education and regional growth across the country. This is the way the Storting usually governs. Together with the Center Party, we ask the government to ensure teacher training at Nesna, among others. by ensuring financial space for training through study places, recruitment positions and enhanced budget. Together with the Centre Party and SV, we also propose that the government develop a plan to strengthen the regional role of the study sites. Future higher education at Nesna shall be included in the plan. For the Workers' Party, it is essential to ensure regional development and the important professional training. Unfortunately, the government parties are going to vote in favour of the proposal. Norway needs education and value creation across the country. The Workers' Party rejects the establishment of the education system by the right-wing government. We've always worked to ensure education as much as possible. The Workers' Party will implement the competences and premises of the Nesna and will have more decentralised education. That's why we put funds and study places in our alternative budget. A comprehensive, diverse higher education provision across the country is the responsibility of the government. The government has the overall responsibility for the professional training of Helgeland. In this case, the government has taken the initiative in the merger, and the government has instructed the board of directors of Nord University to change the study structure. However, the government has not set up sufficient time, finance and study places for Nord University to be able to get strengthened out of the merger and deliver on its societal mission. Instead, the government has pushed the university board in front of itself, driving a bit of a strange, ambiguous interference in the board's work. They didn't need a new big message to find out that this is not the way to control the sector. For one who is concerned with good governance of universities and colleges, with higher education being possible throughout the country, and with the great lack of teachers, nurses and other important professionals in the welfare state, it is depressing to listen to the government parties in this debate. We hear that the political will and ability to care for these important reasons are partly absent and at least too late. The representative, Emblemsvåg, manufactures the right-hand government as the guarantor of autonomy in the sector. Then I have to remind you of the fact that it has been very strange to register in this process that the Council of State is gathering and sending letters – we read that text messages have been sent, we hear that other actors have been refused to interfere in order to save Nesna. The government should take overall responsibility long before. When, in the last hour of the process, the Council of State warns a big message about the management of the sector, we in the Workers' Party believe that this is, in part, a little unhelpable, but at least a typical example of how this government governs: they push the responsibility down on the institutions of the sector and launch a big message for any problem they don't have here and now.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e344	This issue is about difficult balances, and about how resources can best be used for the university to carry out its social mission and train candidates for the benefit and benefit of working and social life in the region it is located. Every university and college has a separate responsibility to develop its own institution in that perspective, as well as to assess the organisation of the professional environment in order to enhance quality. We in the Christian People's Party do not conceal that we have been critical of the closure of the Nesna decided by the North University. We are concerned about the consequences of the closure of this site and the centralisation of education services in Helgeland because we believe it is important to invest in knowledge and competence building in the districts. We are concerned that universities and universities should take on the regional responsibility they have for their social tasks. It means building competences in the region in which they are located. This has been elaborated and made clear in our comments together with the government parties in the handling of the matter. We know that a transfer of study services will always be associated with a certain risk of e.g. whether the attractiveness and competence of the new place of study will be high enough to attract enough students. This is a demanding matter, with a large case complex and a lot of information, which partly cracks. However, when we do not support the proposal for a representative, there are two aspects in particular that we stress. A large majority, including most of today’s opposition parties – apart from the Centre Party – were taken by the board’s responsibility for developing institutions’ resources and quality. Yes, it was even stressed that this autonomy was essential for universities and colleges to carry out their social mission. When the Christian People's Party does not support the proposal to amend the decision made by the Nordic University, it is primarily about the autonomy of the institutions. They have a right and they have a duty to make their assessments of how to organise their education services. Here the institution has chosen to make changes in resource use and study sites. The SV and the Central Party propose that the Storting should intervene is not only unusual but also contrary to the adopted guidelines on university autonomy. Secondly, we base our decision that the capacity for teacher training in Helgeland is maintained, even though this is now at Mo. The Nesna study sites are transferred to Mo in their entirety. This means that the capacity in this area is maintained. As I have understood the board and the principal, one will even be able to expand the capacity if it turns out to be needed from the candidate figure in the future. The same applies to the way teaching is organised. It must also be continued. Although it may be demanding to move an offer to a new location, I am convinced that both the management and the board will be focused on making the offer as attractive as possible, and will do what is necessary to achieve it. In addition, we base our decision that Nesna will now be a current candidate for state means of conversion. We therefore need to focus in the future on how to establish new offers on Nesna that can meet the needs that Helgeland can benefit from – competent offers. It will therefore be important for the state and state to look together at how they can use the infrastructure of other skills-enhancing measures that can be positive and important for the community and this part of Helgeland. I have to admit that I'm a little surprised that a party like SV, who supported the structural message when it was treated, in this case seems to be more concerned with forcing the board at Nord University to kneel rather than focusing on what alternatives you should now work to get to a place like Nesna, because there really needs a lot of energy to get up alternative opportunities. In the view of the Christian People's Party, we must therefore work to ensure that the local community at Nesna can continue to be filled with competent offers for the benefit of Nesna and the region in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e362	Food department, local hospitals, educational services – people must now fight against government policy, which undermines the basis for people to live and live and have a future throughout our country. Last year it was 100 years since the start of teacher training at Nesna. A year after the anniversary, this decision is taken. This is absurd in a situation of great teaching shortage, which will continue in the years to come. We need more teachers, and we need people to become teachers all over the country. This makes it strategically important that we maintain teacher training at Nesna. Red believes that the students who were taken up before the closure decision must complete their training course at Nesna. We are promoting this in today's Chamber and hoping for broad support for it. In addition, we know that there is a great shortage of nurses in Northern Ireland. It is difficult for many municipalities to recruit for the jobs needed to provide care for the elderly, and to ensure the provision and services of the inhabitants of the municipalities. As for those taking their education in Lake Sandness, many of them — most of them — are in Helgeland and are involved in ensuring good care for the elderly and a good hospital provision for the population. It is therefore totally illogical to drop nurse training in Lake Sandness. It has also given the municipalities of Helgeland and Helgelands Hospital a clear and unambiguous message about returning to Nord universitet, that this is unacceptable and must be stopped. With a decline in the population of Helgeland, it is particularly serious that there will be fewer job opportunities for young people who want to establish themselves in the region. What is happening now is primarily the responsibility of the government. The appointment of the Board of Directors to organise activities at all levels does not mean that the government and the Council of State can shift responsibility away from where education is to be provided in our country. The size of these boards has not given a general mandate to free up important study sites around Norway. Political decisions on central education offer cannot be outsourced from Stortinget – the Stortinget must take responsibility. After we have received the decisions of the board of directors of the North University and they are in the process of winding up, we have to ask ourselves if it is wise to bind the future of education provision in the Helgelands region to just Nord University. This is a small, underfunded institution. In three years they have been able to become completely discredited in many of the Nordic countries, not least in Helgeland. We propose that North University should be deprived of responsibility for the education services on Helgeland in the future. They should be restored by assigning responsibility to a university other than Nord universitet. We in Red want it to be living districts that people can live and work around the country. It doesn't happen if we drop out of education that just makes people live and live, and can take an education and have a future in important regions outside the largest cities. By ensuring the provision of services, we ensure that municipalities also have access to staff – nurses, teachers – needed to ensure well-being services in the municipalities of our country. There is no good reason why we should now not exploit the premises, leave aside the infrastructure that exists on Nesna and on Helgeland, which has provided good training for both nurses and teachers for very many years. It's not impressive to hear the civilians in the hall today. They're protesting for the world, but they're in the process of raging the offers on Helgeland. We're going to do that, and we hope that someone will take the last second and support sensible proposals to secure the future of the institutions in the Nesna and the Sandness Lake. With that, I'll take up Red's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e381	The representative Bears Moxnes has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e386	The SV’s representatives have proposed a decentralised higher education for quality, well-being and sustainable local communities. I agree with that is an important topic. The decision of the Nord University Board is of great importance, especially for Nesna and for those who live there. But I would like to remind you that the starting point was different, and that this began with a proposal for far more and more extensive changes. That was also the reason why I sent a letter in April to the board reminding them that they had several assignments, both quality and regional responsibility. In June, the proposal was substantially amended and the decision of the Management Board thereafter. For Nesna there was no change between April and June, and I have a great understanding that there is resistance, frustration, anger and disappointment there. It's been a big commitment from all the regions where the university is represented. I have met many who are opposed to the decision, and there has been extensive dialogue and contact between the department and the university and various stakeholders in this matter. But when the university board has made a decision on an overall organisation and location structure, I think it's right that we don't review it. I also believe that it is in line with the understanding expressed by a broad majority in the Stockholm University and Higher Education Act of 2005 and in the treatment of structural reform in 2015. Good access to education and competence across the country and regional development was two of the objectives of the structural reform, which was presented to the Swedish Government in the Report. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. This junk message underlines: ‘In order to provide labour for regional labour, we also need to have a well-developed network of educational institutions in the future. This must not, however, be at the expense of ensuring that education is anchored in sound professional environments and of maintaining high quality.’ The issue we are now discussing is really about who is going to decide how the institutions are going to organise themselves to make sure that there are good and sought-after education services throughout the country. The University and Higher Education Act states that the Board of Institutions is responsible for laying down the strategy for the professional activities of the institutions and that the Board itself is to determine the internal organisation of its activities at all levels. The Management Board must be able to dispose itself of the resources allocated to it in order to achieve the objectives set. The law and the management system are based on the Boards, consisting of both external board members and members of staff and students, who know the institutions best and who have the best chance of deciding on how to solve the important societal tasks they have. If we change that principle, it will make it uncertain what authority governments have in all other universities and colleges. I think it will undermine the ability of the regimes to act and implement and lead to the governments losing some of their function. Training the population is one of the most important tasks a university has. They shall facilitate the acquisition of the skills both of urban residents and of those living in the countryside that are necessary for the business and employment of the region in question. The Nordic University itself has shown that they will continue to train teachers and other important educational groups in Helgeland. Of course, it is not the desired solution for those who are employed at Nesna today, and the community there, that the offer is now to be given from Mo in Rana, but the schools in Helgeland and the students who go there will still have access to good competence through teachers who are educated at Nord University.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e410	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e415	There's almost a bit of a loud word about autonomy here. The majority also state that autonomy is important at a time when the Academy is under pressure from political forces in many parts of the world. But the government councils have ruled, the department has ruled, in the letter of assignment where they asked Nord University to look at the structure. The only university that got that message was Nord universitet. Governments have warned the University of Tromsø against having contact with Nesna. The Council of State has promised its representatives from Trøndelag that Namsos will survive, and the Council of State has also, as far as I understand, put some pressure on the North rector ahead of the ruling decision. Steering is not uncommon. There has been extensive contact, as the Council of State says. Is not what is said here today about autonomy, a little pompous in relation to what the Council of State has done in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e422	This has been a very difficult matter for North University. I think in modern times this is the most difficult case a university has ever faced. There is a process that has passed over a long time. It is quite right, as the representative says, that I sent a letter, because there was a report from the principal that went very far – much further than what was the original decision – in changes in different study places. I then chose to send a letter, which was published both here and there, where I made it clear that they had to think that they had more tasks than just raising the quality. They also had to pay attention to the responsibility they have to provide education to the population of the region to which they belong. In that letter I asked them to adjust the course. And when the Vice-Chancellor presented her proposal for a decision in June, she had taken that into account and made significant changes from the first proposal that was made, to what the board then adopted in June.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e437	The Council of State actually confirms the picture I am now giving, i.e. that the Council of State has had extensive contact with the North University prior to the ruling decision. The ministry was the ones who asked for Nord University to look at the structure. Here has also given a clear signal to the University of Tromsø about not having contact with Nesna. So one controls the overall level, and one controls the structural conditions, but never the content. It's kind of autonomy in the Norwegian university sector. Does it not also appear to the Council of State that the majority here today is using a very formalistic and almost pompous argument, where instead of defending that they are actually defeating Nesna, they choose to push autonomy and formalism ahead of them?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e444	I have not, as a state council, overestimated the board of directors at North University. I have chosen not to do so on the basis that I believe that the autonomy of universities is important. It has been a difficult process, it has been a difficult decision for North University, but it is the Vice-Chancellor who has put forward a proposal, and it is the Board that has adopted the proposal. I, as the Council of State, have chosen not to override it with the background of university autonomy. So I want to fix a little bit in some of the statements that come here. Firstly, with regard to the Ministry's orders to look at the structure, this is part of the development agreement of Nord universitet. There is no unilateral mandate from the department there; this is an agreement between the department and the university on the initiative of the university. We have not asked them to drop the Nesna; the principal himself has chosen to present it, and the board has chosen to adopt it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e451	I'll start by talking about control. The government has many instruments of governance towards the institutions that they can choose to use. In this case, the right-hand government could have stopped this if they wanted it. Our first proposal says that the government must ensure teacher training at Nesna, for example. through a strengthened economic space. It is, as we see it, as strong as SV's proposals, but it preserves the important institutional autonomy. Our proposal is another way to the goal, but it is a very clear call for the government. Last week’s media headlines also show that the government actually controls when they want to, so this is not about management systems, but about a disagreement about what education will look like in the future. We have taken a very clear view from the Labour Party on teacher training at Nesna. Based on the debate we have heard here today, I have to ask: does the Council of State think that the problem here is that the government has too few ways to control the sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e460	After reading the Committee's position, there is no doubt in my mind that the Workers' Party is weakening the autonomy of the institutions. Trying to explain that to me, I don't understand how to do it. It surprises me that the Labour Party places so little emphasis on autonomy as an important sector such as the university and higher education sectors. It is true that the ministry has a number of management tools for the institutions we own. That is also what I used when I sent a letter to the board of directors at the university in April, when the first report from the principal came. Then I wasn't inside the details and instructed what they were going to do, but I asked them to adjust the course, because I thought the original proposal went too far, led to far too big a change and did not carry out one part of the community mission that went to offer education and competence to the region.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e468	There is no doubt that the government has a lot of management tools, and if they wanted to achieve something, they could have done it wisely. Today, Nesna loses in Stortinget. The majority are unfortunately very clear on this matter. They believe that the Nesna exit process should continue. In the face of this harsh reality, the Nesna community and their friends in Helgeland do not intend to put their lobes on the shelf and the enclosure in the closet. They're still working, they're looking for new solutions. If today's education is to be reduced, the Labour Party believes it is important that the government and the Ministry do what they can to support the municipality and the rapporteur in putting in place other alternatives for the community. Has the government done anything to engage in dialogue with the municipality and to be on the supply side to ensure activity at Nesna, whether in the case of conversion to offer new training that is needed now and in the future, or in the case of other measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e475	I myself have been at Nesna and have had dialogue with both rapporteurs in the region and the People's Action for Higher Education in Helgeland. Nord University plans to continue to provide education at Helgeland, but then at Mo in Rana. Nord universitet is concerned that there will continue to be teachers, nurses and other important education groups for the workplace and for the business community in Helgeland. In addition, I am familiar with that e.g. VIT is in dialogue with the hospital to see if they can provide education on Lake Sandes. This is a process that is definitely going to go on. Nord universitet has a job to do in terms of trust between the community and Nord universitet to rebuild it and show that they intend to strengthen Mo and offer the skills needed in Helgeland.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e484	I'm worried – I'm worried about the municipality of Nesna, I'm worried about the employees of the North University, the Nesna campus, and I'm particularly concerned about the students who today have Nesna as their place of study. They've been behind them, they've been talked down in the management paper when the situation, on the other hand, is that it's not just on candidate Nesna's score that's better than Bodø, there's also numbers on both attendance, implementation and study satisfaction that show that the Nesna study site is viable. That's why I ask on behalf of the students: will the Council of State take the initiative to ensure that the students who have already been admitted to the Nordic University, Department Nesna, complete their studies, as promised?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e489	This has been a difficult matter for the employees, for the students, for the North University. I would like to stress that the students who are studying at Nesna today meet the requirements we have set for learning, but Nord University has challenges in recruiting teachers, implementing and getting enough teachers to the region. They have that challenge as a whole at Nord universitet. Then there's something that works better some places than other places, but all the places of study at the North University have their own challenges in teaching. What is important now is that now Nord University has made a decision. Rector presented a configuration, the board has decided to drop the Nesna. Now North University must continue to work on that decision. They have to engage in dialogue with the employees, they have to engage in dialogue with the students, and they have to make good arrangements for those who are going to move to Mo in Rana or Bodø.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e496	I'd like to ask the Council of State to save us for this play on autonomy. Everyone knows that the slaughter of the Nesna campus – despite the fact that there was something else in the merger agreement – has been planned for a long time, over several years. Autonomy is an important principle in terms of the freedom of research and the day-to-day operation and organisation of universities, but it is not an argument that ministerial boards should be given the power to assume responsibility for education policy. The fact that the Boards have been given responsibility for the organisation of the institutions does not mean that the Stortinget has given them a free mandate to rage over important study places around Norway. If this type of closure is still being carried out, does the Council of State Nybø agree that this will happen because the government permits it, and also gives the bluff in giving the necessary appropriations to prevent such a result?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e501	First of all, a government at a university is not appointed solely by the ministry. A board of directors of a university consists of some external directors appointed by the ministry, but also of employees and students, and it is not those appointed by the ministry who have a majority. Secondly, no mandate has been given to the Management Board, says the representative. In fact, in the Law on Higher Education, the Board of Directors has been mandated to determine the organisation of the university at all levels. The mandate of the Management Board has been renewed in the Structural Communication. All parties outside the Centre Party were quite clear that it is the governments who are to decide the organisation of a university. And this North University, as the representative so disdainfully mentions it as, is an important institution for Northern Ireland and Trundellag and is to provide labour to the labour force and to the business community.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e508	Replicate cord shift complete. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e515	Let there be no doubt that this day will stand as the day when the government parties put the final nail in the coffin for an entire community on Helgeland. If you don't see the far-reaching consequences of not intervening and maintaining teacher training at Nesna and nursing training in Lake Sandness, you haven't got enough into the dramatic consequences. This is not just about moving an institution from a place to a more central place in a good spirit of centralization. It is a matter of losing the heart of Nesna, but also of weakening access to qualified teachers and nurses in a large region, a region that is otherwise so important to the state of Norway in some areas, in particular through its high value creation in aquaculture. There are values Norway would like to maintain and further develop. We must not forget that in order to further develop our natural resources, we depend on viable communities, including on the Helgeland coast, and such communities need qualified personnel, both teachers and nurses. I assume that the Council of State has made a thorough conference with both the Minister of Local Government, Industry and the Prime Minister in order to assess the long-term consequences for Helgeland and for the Nordic countries that will result from this closure in the Nordic University. This concerns both housing and industrial development. The Government and the Council of State must be aware of the promises contained in the merger agreement and cannot have avoided noticing all the recordings made, recordings with great professional weight. Unfortunately, today's debate shows that there is a lack of knowledge of the institution's qualities, of geography and of Nord University's alternatives. This is because, in the case of moving to Mo in Rana, the specialist teachers should have a place of residence in Bodø. Nor shall it be possible to overlook the fact that the decisions of the University Board are based on failed facts, which have been set out in hearings, etc. Sometimes those responsible have to take responsibility. Autonomy cannot be used as a skin cover for it. Taking responsibility is not detail management, it is something that the population expects. It has been raised beyond any doubt that the Council of State could and should have intervened. This seems to be a dark day in Helgeland's history, and unfortunately it seems to be several days in the time to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e530	Agenda North Norway is now taking place in Narvik, and yesterday, in Agenda North Norway, questions were asked about what is important for young people who will choose jobs, education and residence. The answer was clear: job opportunities, education and development opportunities – then came friends, girlfriends, family. The answer hardly comes as a surprise. But what happens now on Helgeland? Well, the building blocks that are the most important for young people who are going to create a future are going to be gone on the Helgeland coast, in the Northland. The districts are dismantled and decentralised. When I hear from the Council of State Nybø, it seems that centralisation is a goal in itself in this matter. And where are the representatives of the Northern Government parties in this matter? Where are the representatives of the Progress Party who, throughout the election campaign, rushed to the closure of Lake Nesna and Lake Sandness? In the election campaign they opposed this, against the process leading up to the decision of the North University. Now they're gone, now we don't hear their voices. Nordic representatives from the Right have not mentioned this matter at all, and it is disappointing. The government and government parties can, of course, set a framework for the autonomy of the Nordic University. If they had wanted to, the government parties could vote in favour of the proposals promoted by, among others, The center party in this case, but there's no majority in the big groups to do that. It's actually like the government parties think it's all right to drop teacher training at Nesna. They think it's okay to approx. 230 jobs disappear from Nesna and the surrounding area, and they think it is okay for Helgeland to be tapped for educational and development opportunities. It's said that education is going to pass, it's going to move to Mo in Rana, and it's going to be the same or increased number of places of study. That's not true. We have repeatedly seen in this case that the principal of the North University has presented factual errors. Criticism and counter-power have been evident. People's reaction has fought for what they've loved. They have fought against the closure of Nesna and to find out the facts in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e543	The centre party has stood alone to oppose the structural reform. We believe that actions over time have contributed to centralisation. There has been a reduction in the number of places of study at the Nordic University since the merger, despite the assurances of the government and the majority of the population, as well as the formulation of further developments laid down in the merger agreement. There is a need for increased quality, stronger units and professional environments. But Nesna had quality, was a strong unit and had a strong professional environment before the merger. Publications per employee, applicant numbers, implementation and well-being were highest among the units entering the Nordic University. As at the time of the structural reform, we still lack a review of quality drivers, the quality concept and the requirements for professional environments. Telltale edges and quantity are in front of quality. We still believe that the value of knowledge development and candidate training in a diversity of institutions spread across the country has a self-esteem, both nationally and regionally. This societal mission is not being emphasised today. The government parties point to the agreement on the objectives of teacher training in the development agreement between the Ministry of Knowledge and the Nordic University, but seem to forget how active policies are in fact needed to ensure widespread and decentralised training and campers around Norway. If responsibility is given to directors, we can read in the Law of the University and the Higher Education Act that professional development is to be consistent with objectives given by the superior authority and that «the financial resources and property of the institution are made available in accordance with provisions to this effect given by the superior authority». How internal organisation can be a blank mandate for the closure of study places against political desires is incomprehensible to me. The autonomy of institutions is not absolute. The powers of the Governing Boards have been delegated by the Ministry as the owner of the higher education institutions and universities. The Government and the Council of State cannot discharge political responsibility when the institutions make arrangements which are contrary to politically agreed objectives. The council made itself an active party when writing letters, visits and telephone calls. We understand the commitment, but then it's not useful to pull the shoulders and say, when the decision is made, we did what we could. At the end of the day, this is a political responsibility. The center party believes that the consequences of not doing anything are far, far greater than doing something to save these places of study.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e554	It is a little worrying to listen to some of the arguments of several government parties in this case. I actually don't think Right speaking woman mentioned Nesna in a single word. She had a purely formalistic argument, which in a way shows that Nesna has every reason to feel abandoned. I believe that this argument does not hold true. I would like to see if the Right stayed as calm if NTNU's board had decided to drop out of college in Ålesund. I have no faith in that. But I think it's because Nesna is so small that it's possible to ignore it and thus use formalistic reasoning to put the college down and also call it a detailed management that the Storting has an opinion about it. The government governs at an overall level, on structural conditions, but never on the content of the university and higher education sectors. One may choose to call it the development agreement instead of the letters of assignment, but the government is the director of the development agreement. They do, they all preface it, not least because they're the ones who control the funding. Both basic funding and study production are controlled by the government and therefore also premise the so-called development agreement. I'm also worried when I hear the Left's spokeswoman, when she indirectly chooses to speak the Nesna down quality. Because what the left says indirectly is that quality can only be achieved in larger places. So one implicitly says that education of good teachers with a high professional level cannot happen in smaller places. That's what you could kind of perceive what the Left said about quality and teacher training in his post, and that's what I think is worrying. I also think it is worrying when the spokesman of the Progress Party believes that one cannot operate so-called detailed management from Stortinget. There are some of us who think it's not detail management to decide whether to drop out of a hundred-year-old college or not. It's something quite different than detail management, it's a very important decision, and it's kind of eye-catching that one here chooses to avoid that issue, almost avoiding the debate on it, but the whole question of autonomy is pushing ahead and taking on a very formalistic argument. I think it actually illustrates the distance in reality between the different parties in this room in this case today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e566	The autonomy of the Boards has become the main argument of the Council of State and the parties to the Government in this matter. But I want to point out that the law of higher education underlines the regional political responsibility of universities and colleges. Government and staggering have the overall responsibility for educating teachers, pre-school teachers and nurses who want to get a job over the whole country. Here, Nesna and Sandness Lake can prove that they have delivered. So it should not be possible for the national state, under the autonomy of the governments, to leave to the board to take state – state – decisions that can rage a whole community and weaken a region. The government has intervened in decisions at the Police College, the government has instructed the University of Tromsø, and it is clear that the government could also have been empowered to intervene in this matter. The question is: why will the government not intervene in the closure of the Nesna campus and the training of nurses in Lake Sandness, when this has so great consequences for the region? State Council Nybø claims that she is engaged in decentralised education. But when Nesna is gone, it is not a believer. I have always believed that this matter is too important to be decided in the boardroom. Teacher shortages, district policies and where in the country we are going to place our universities and educational institutions should be a political issue. I have to add some comments to what has been made in some of the speeches today. First to the representative Roy Steffensen: he shows a touching concern for Nesna, but he does not raise a finger to save Nesna. So to the representative Hans Fredrik Gruvan, who thinks it's going on at Mo: To that I would say it's almost like believing in Christmas. Firstly, the professional community should be based in Bodø, so that the decision deprives the region of an important professional environment – a professional environment specialised in decentralised education. This professional environment will also be fragmented. The kindergarten admissions shall be only every two years and there is no room on the Mo for those who will be educated in the practical-esthetic subjects. And after hearing the representative, Emblemsvåg, I have no doubt that campus Nesna is not the only institution and the only place of study to be gone.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e577	This is about at least two things. Firstly, it is about the consequences for the community of Nesna. Secondly, it is about how we discharge regional responsibility for regional education, regional research and that people should be able to study where they live. First, this is a heavy day for Nesna. Today, Nesna loses in Stortinget. The majority are unfortunately clear in this case: they believe that the process of completing Nesna should continue. In the face of this harsh reality, the Nesna community and their friends in Helgeland have not placed their lobbies on the shelf and the enclosure in the closet. They continue to work – they still want an offer at Nesna, they look for solutions, and we should support them in it. Secondly, it is about how we discharge regional responsibility for education and research. We're afraid that what's happening at Nesna can happen elsewhere. Thank you for giving us a debate, for there have been high voices in Helgeland that have spoken out and made us get this debate in Stortinget – hopefully several times as well. Some people are trying to do this primarily as a debate on the structural reform of higher education. We can probably have long debates on that. But the truth is that this matter is not primarily about law, but about political will. We've even heard the state council stand here today and say that she knows that there are ways to govern the institutions. It has – a government can govern through letters of credit, office management meetings, budgets, study places, recruitment positions, development agreements, stocktaking messages and appointment or assignment of directors, through formal and informal signals. The truth is, if the government parties had thought that the training at Nesna was not to be completed, they would have been able to ensure that it was not. If the government parties had thought that North University should have gone in a different direction, they would have been able to secure it. Let me stress that the Workers' Party believes it is wise to go through the guidance signals and the guiding principles of higher education. This case has shown why this is necessary. When both the Council of State and others say that the Workers' Party and other parties have gone too far in governing autonomy in this matter, the Council of State itself has today confirmed that there are ways to govern. And the government itself has said, at the latest today, that she used them when she and the government thought that North University went too far – she disagreed with Nord University's first proposal for structural change. But when others, e.g. The working party, do it – then it must suddenly be irresponsible to think that Nord University should change the course. It is not a believer, and it is an irresponsible and unaccountable management of both North University and higher education, which creates uncertainty, and one should have voted in favour of the proposals that the opposition is making in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e592	There is no doubt that this is and has been a very demanding matter. Even I took the trip to Nesna to both listen to the arguments and not least hear firsthand what was moving, when the first position from Nord University came. As you have probably received with you, fellow representatives, I have been one of those who have been very critical of how you have handled this precisely with student location structure. I would have liked to have seen another solution, I have to say it. I have also been very pleased that the Council of State Nybø has been very clear about pointing to the regional and not least to the social mission that universities have. At the same time, I think it's important that we reflect a little on the autonomic trail, which I feel has been made very unsound from this pulpit today, at least until now. Because there is no doubt that in the dilemma that we are facing here now, and that I myself feel very much, one thing is that we in the United Kingdom are setting budgetary frameworks, that we are pointing to some of the quality and development directions that universities are going to take through these letters of allocation or development agreements that they have. But what I think is very important to bring here, is what level of detail you're moving on. By that I don't mean that putting down a campus is a detail, at all. But the point is that you have to see things in a context, and what's an important principle, and that makes me have a heart attack on this matter, is just the need to place responsibility for a whole and the care of a quality. Then the dilemma we are facing here today is: Shall we, 169 grossing-up representatives, say that we are better qualified to control detail and handle the daily assessment of quality, study offers, professional environment, etc. – what is necessarily involved in facilitating the provision of study and staff recruitment and in facilitating the good operation of a university meeting the requirements of the completely independent NOCUT body to follow up and ensure quality? It goes without saying that that borderline is important precisely because we are not able to take such detailed follow-up from this hall. That's why we have an administration and a board that makes their overall assessments. I just want to point out that in the hearing – despite the fact that we have strengthened the economy of the new universities quite significantly, we have gained more places to study, etc. – it was said that this was not a purely economic issue. This makes this case extra demanding, and that is also why we have to follow the autonomic trail.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e603	In Northern Ireland, both nature and peoples are strong. There is both optimism and creativity in the north. But now we're cursed, as Harald Stanghelle wrote in the Evening Post. We are well-founded cursed: the closure of Andøya Air Station, the merger of Troms and Finnmark, the ambulance planes and the police reform. There are now closures on the Helgeland coast: property courts, traffic stations and the construction of the Brønn Island Health Registers, nurse training in Lake Sandness and teacher training at Nesna. The principal at North University has presented the wrong facts over and over again. I think it qualifies for ironing. But no one with a majority in this room will address these factual errors. I have asked questions and tried to challenge Prime Minister Erna Solberg, and she asks Minister of Education and Research Nybø to answer such questions, and she again shrugs off responsibility or won't take this wrong information, and walks around the pike. I think this is very worrying. It seems as if there are errors in the basis of the case, what lays the foundation for the decisions that could have been converted today, but that still have to be made. Mistakes in the facts are almost impossible to live with. It's a matter of urgency to pack the teacher's training at Nesna. And why should the jobs and education services that exist there today be laid down, in order to try to rebuild afterwards, also with the county's drag and drop aid, as the representative Gruvan adds? It would have been much, much better to stop this matter now. So the trust in North University and Nesna is gone, many say. But I think that if the proposals that have been made today – at least the Central Party – had been adopted, the principal of the North University had to apologize, and she and the board had to align themselves with those decisions or find something else to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e612	It was the post of the representative Arnstad that made me draw. She said that I went quite far in suggesting that small institutions could not maintain high quality. Either she didn't hear what I said, or then she misunderstood me on purpose. That's not what I said at all; what I said was that the demands that politicians make must be about quality, and then it must be up to universities and colleges to figure out how best to achieve this quality both in terms of research and in terms of quality of education. I do not have enough knowledge to assess different places of study or institutions in Norway against each other in terms of quality of education or research quality. We have, as we've been up to, independent bodies that do the job for us, we have NOCUT, and of course we also have the competence of these institutions, which are the best ones to assess it, themselves. We certainly have small colleges and universities of top quality, and we certainly have great ones that don't deliver that good quality. In fact, it's sometimes quite important that we're a little bit of faith in the systems we're creating, so that the outside world can also have confidence that they work. I wish, for example. not an American system in which what kind of educational institution you have attended is more important than the education you have taken. I want it to be just as much worth. If you've taken a teacher's education, it should be just as much worth regardless of where it comes from, because we know that we have a system that ensures quality. The decision can't be that we're 169 sitting here, who are taking, it actually has to be taken by the whole other, who have the knowledge that is needed to make such a decision. It was also suggested that the parties would have reacted differently if there were other study sites that had been proposed. Well, I haven't heard the representative Arnstad engage when there are places of study here in the East that have been laid down, so that's the case for both parties. The point is that our main job in education policy is to ensure that we get highly competent people and good research across the country. That's why we also have a rather decentralised structure for universities and colleges in this country. We stick with a lot of educational institutions compared to a lot of other countries on about. the same size. It's a value that the Left supports, and that we think is very important, but we have to let the universities and colleges decide the structure themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e621	I have some comments on the debate that has been here today, firstly to the Workers' Party's argument: my objection to the Labour Party's argument is that they are trying to ride two horses at once. Firstly, they have supported the Law on Higher Education, which was adopted in 2005, which states that there are governments that decide on the organisation of universities – and also the structural reform of the previous enlargement period, where this is clarified. On the other hand, they are now behind proposals to oblige North University to maintain the study offer at Nesna. On the one hand, you talk about autonomy, on the other hand, you are so clear at the place of study Nesna. That is my objection to the Workers' Party. If it is that the Workers' Party is no longer behind the fact that the boards are going to decide where to offer different educations, it is an honest thing, but then you have to be clear about it. I also want to comment on the University of Tromsø, Norway's Arctic University. Now it has been said several times from the pulpit that UiT has been instructed by the Department of Knowledge and that they have been refused to take over at Nesna. UiT has not been instructed by the Ministry of Knowledge. They were in a certain situation asked to take a step back, for there was a very inflamed situation on Nesna just then. It was linked to a certain period of time, nor was it an instruction. When it comes to whether UiT can take over at Nesna, I've heard a lot talk about it – politicians have talked about it, people in Helgeland have talked about it, the media have talked about it. Some people talk about it because it's political opportunity for them to touch in that water, others talk about it because they really hope that UiT can take over on Nesna. But I've had a meeting with the University of Tromsø, and they stress to the Ministry of Knowledge that they have never considered taking over employees, building stock or activities at Nesna. I think we should be honest about that in a difficult situation, as it is at Nesna now. It is not an option for UiT to come and take over what is today's offer. But UiT is, of course, free, like other universities, to offer different education also in Helgeland, and I know that they are working on continuing and continuing training offers that the region does not have today's offer, but that there may be a need. I expect that they will continue to have dialogue with the region. Nord universitet is an important university for Nordland and Trøndelag. They have a job to do when it comes to building trust, and they have to do that, because this is a university that's going to deliver important labour to business and work, and that means a lot to those who live in those regions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e634	As I said, this is about both the concrete locality of Nesna and Helgeland, and it is about the larger picture of how we provide regional education. I just have to say first that the Council of State Nybø is wrong. It is not the case that the Labour Party's proposals in this matter require a change in the whole of the structural reform. Our point is that you don't have to change the system to ensure teacher training at Nesna. It could have been guaranteed by a government if you wanted to. So the Labour Party's proposals and those we support in the case, don't necessarily force Nord University to do anything. We want to ensure teacher training at Nesna. We've intentionally not written exactly how it could happen. It would have been the government's responsibility if the proposal were adopted. For us, the important thing is that the offer is there, not exactly who will care for it. When we discuss this matter, as many people have said, it's clear that if you ask yourself who is really responsible for securing communities, Nord University doesn't necessarily have responsibility for maintaining district workplaces. But is the district court responsible for maintaining district jobs? No, they don't. The police say they are not responsible for maintaining the district workplaces. The Brønn Island Health Registers are not responsible for maintaining the district workplaces. Or in the case of Troms, who I have been in many defence discussions about: the defence cannot be responsible for maintaining district work. Neither can Nav, etc. The question then is, Who is responsible? Well, I want to ask the government parties about something here today, because on Friday there was a matter up in the Council of State. Then the government changed the guidelines for the location of state jobs and services. On the government’s own website, Monica Mæland spoke under the heading ‘Government is tightening the grip on the distribution of State jobs’. State Council of Malta states: ‘We must avoid any undue impact on individual sites when state jobs are moved or laid down.’ So now, according to the new guidelines, all localisation decisions regarding state agencies and directorates need to be lifted up at political level. The question for the government parties is: when we see that, for example: The closure of the entire study site has a major impact on the community, could it not be done the same thing – included in the discussion on the governance principles of higher education, which the government has now announced to go through – and said that well, if it has as many consequences as it does in this case, there must be a completely different political discussion and a completely different political responsibilities than what we see in that case? The truth is, we hear from other parts of the country that you fear the same kind of evolution. If we're going to have a skills reform, we're going to have education throughout the country, enough teachers and nurses, we have to make sure that we have education across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e656	Yes then, I can assure the representative Arnstad that Nesna was mentioned in my post – for those who heard of it – and it was also the other campuses that were at stake. But they haven't lined up, so maybe that's why they're not mentioned here today. I'm not so busy cutting cheap political points, like many others here, but I'm very concerned that the Storting is going to be the one that's looking up. Who in all days will do it, if not the Storting does it? The representative Arnstad is right that I had engaged in ‘big time’ if NTNU were to shut down Campus Ålesund, but I had never asked the Storting to override NTNU’s rule. To that end, I have far too much integrity and respect for the work done by the various governments in the UH sector around Norway. No one has mentioned here today that in the autumn of 2018 NOKUT threatened to withdraw the accreditation of Nord University due to quality challenges. If we had today chosen to override North University and said that we maintain all the campuses, we override the ruling decision, what would the representative Arnstad have done next time an institution wanted to change its structure? Will Arnstad ignore the quality challenge in Norwegian education and set up study places anyway?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e665	The representative Mona Fagerås has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e670	I've been talking about storms today, and I don't envy the councillor of state that storm she's been in for the last time. But when the media have revealed the paradox of autonomy, that text messages and letters have been sent to the University of Tromsø for their commitment to a conference at Nesna, in addition to the last days' revelations in the Research Forum that the Council of State as late as the day before the President of the North University presented its position, was in contact with her, and it has become known that the Council of State was ready in its recommendation that the study place in Trøndelag should remain, is the big question today: Why is it not contrary to the autonomy of the institutions to recommend the continuation of study places in Trøndelag, while it is this in the case of study places in Nordland?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e675	Many of my best days I've had in North Norway, a phenomenal part of the country where I've become acquainted with people who basically stick to a quiet and comfortable comfort, but who are also not afraid to take in, raise their voice and take a conflict when there's a need for it. There are differences between parts of Norway. Some of these differences are based on strange prejudices, but some of them are completely real. Mother, who is from the Skaugvoll in the municipality of Gildeskal, just south of Bodø, had to have a kind of small course for me when I called home from the recruiting school a few years ago because I suddenly shared rooms with a bunch of northerners. And I, with my relatively modest Southern lightnings, handled it pretty badly before Mom called and reminded me that these people I lived with can tolerate a chatter directly to them – they want it, actually. I believe that we need to provide good enough services and plenty of activities across the country, partly because I have the sense of this direct tone and want to preserve a scattered population with different and diverse cultures and characteristics. But the way of being is just a small part of this. Even more important are the different industries for which each part of the country is responsible. For me, relaxing in vacations and fishing at Skaugvoll is a pleasant and recreational thing, but for Norway, fishing in the Nordic region is even more important for nature management, jobs and the economy, which Nordland contributes to, and which the country relies on. We can't expect Nordland to continue to do this, to contribute to this, if we build down the services and activities that make it nice to live there. The same applies to many other districts suffering from this government’s centralisation policy. Fortunately, we can turn this around, and maintaining teacher training at Nesna is a good place to start.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e687	I think we can state that through the debate, the arguments about autonomy have become more and more unclear. It is also argued slightly differently from the different representatives, for example. from the right. Both the Council of State and the representative of Gudmundsen confirm that this is not a clear argument. Then I agree with those who say that funding for structural reform has been an important point. There has been a biased funding that reinforces the challenges faced by the new universities, and that is worrying. I am also pleased that the representative Melby confirms that there is no basis for saying that there is a lower quality in smaller places of study. It is important to be told, it is important to be confirmed, because then it should not be used as an argument in this case, as one can sometimes get the impression that one does. I did not fully understand the argument from the representative Melby that I should not be interested in other places of study, for example. in the East. The centre party has never pushed this argument with autonomy instead of going into the debate on the individual places of study, and instead of going into the debate on the Nesna and the realities associated with it. But I've been concerned about the realities, so I don't think that argument makes so much sense. It cannot be that if I am not against the closure of any study offer, I cannot speak against the closure of Nesna either. After all, here we are talking about the closure of a high school that has existed for 100 years. We're talking about a college that was confronted with promises from the government parties that no study places should be closed as a result of the structural reform. We're talking about a college that got promises in the merger agreement with Nord University that they would be maintained as a study venue. Those promises have failed here today. And with regard to the representative Synnes and her considerations, I have to stress that yes, I'm very concerned – I'm very concerned about what can happen next when it comes to other, new universities as well. The University of South East Norway also has eight campers, and I'm worried about what can happen, and that it can create the precedent that a person chooses to put down Nesna. This is really about the government depriving itself of political responsibility entirely, and it has become a repeat in the field by area. We've seen it in the police, we've seen it in hospitals, we've seen it in state jobs, and we see it now in the university and higher education sectors as well. That is why Helgeland as a region is hit so hard, because no one sees things in context, no one sees the different things that affect that region, in sum. Then I must also stress that I believe it is very unclear what is really going to be built up in Mo in Rana, what it will mean, and what is really going to happen there. And it will also have great significance for Helgeland as such.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e704	I take the floor too clearly to refute the claim made during the debate, namely that the Workers' Party should also intervene in the autonomy of the university. We're not doing that, we're very careful that that's what we're not doing. We strengthen the university's space for action – with finance, with study places. We ask the government to put in place a plan for how to take care of decentralised education and regional responsibility throughout the country. We're raising our eyes. However, when it comes to government councils and government parties, we have examples of how it has been run in detail over a low shoe over a long period of time – by letter, with meetings, with signals on the mobile phone and by refusing to involve others in order to save Nesna. The Workers' Party has always set up for academic freedom. We want to solve this in the usual way, the way the sector is used to, but the government refuses to use the tools that are available, to get it done. The Workers' Party is committed to training throughout the country. Over several years, we have proposed 3,000 new places of study and several recruitment positions. We have measures for decentralised education in our budgets. We also have a major competence reform that depends on a well-developed offer in the regions. That's why we look at the issue of Nesna as part of something larger, since the discussion about the closure of study places can come elsewhere in the country as well. We in the Workers' Party are committed to sending a clear signal that the role of the regions needs to be strengthened, and that the government has to take responsibility for strengthening decentralised education. And so far, I have to say that what the Council of State and the Prime Minister have supplied is small and inadequate.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e711	It may seem that it is to make the institutions least instructive and that notices given by authorities, or opinions of the Council of State, are fully up to the individual to assess. The centre party believes that the state is – and should be – an active owner, with all the funds invested in higher education and the importance it has for society. In this context, it is also a prerequisite that the Council of State should follow up on the fact that institutions are run in line with the decisions and assumptions taken by the Grand Duchy. I think it's scary how the government parties today take away from politics that can help secure decentralised education for more teachers and nurses in Helgeland, which is badly needed. Letters of assignment and development agreements are not unilateral, but the political responsibility for what it says must be taken by the Council of State. Universities were ordered to decide on a new study site structure within a short period of time in 2019. The central party understands this as a wild policy of the government. The requirements we impose on institutions and education programmes must be considered, and the consequences must be assessed. The fundamental problem with the whole of structural reform is that it was hasty and underfunded. Several new changes, such as five-year teacher training and an increase in the results-based share of funding, have contributed negatively. The Research Association believes that in order to ensure the diversity of universities and colleges, we need to change the criteria for achieving the objectives for which the sector is governed. The central party believes that this should be in place to carry out the regional mission and stimulate decentralised education. Small operating and distance disadvantages mean that we should have a more active management of the impact of funding on the structure of the sector in terms of both places of study and courses. Indicators for measuring the benefits of the mergers carried out must also take this into account. Disadvantages may also occur. Vintreisation must now be documented across what the institutions themselves believe to be suitable for expressing effects and quality improvement – but autonomy weighs more heavily, must know. Arguments substituting. The question raised by the Right in the field of research education should be an argument for preserving Nesna, rather than shutting it down, given the quality of teaching there. Members of the Progress Party have called for the Nordic University Structural Decision to be submitted to the Control and Constitutional Committee, which in itself is alarming. But the responsibility for the political consequences of the Board of Nord University adopting closure, contrary to agreements and social tasks, doesn't seem like anyone will take. The Center Party is taking the fight.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e730	The Workers' Party has always been concerned with decentralised education, whether it is in secondary school, higher vocational education, higher education or higher education. It's about access to education near where you live and where there's a need for both knowledge and labour. Better education contributes to increased knowledge. It also helps to balance differences between people and not least between parts of the country. Good quality education, whether it is education of kindergarten teachers, teachers, nurses or others, is essential for the continuation of the welfare society. That the representative Synnes Emblemsvåg from the Right accuses the Workers' Party of being cumbersome considering who is responsible for governance, I think it's a little exciting. Here the representative says that if education in Ålesund was terminated, she wouldn't interfere with it, because it's the government that knows best. If Health Mid-Norway is going to lay down and move the children's ward at the hospital in Ålesund to Trondheim, it's okay, because it's the board that knows best. That's not how the Workers' Party wants it. We are elected people, and we have to stand up for both municipalities, regions and areas that need knowledge, that need jobs, and that need services and services in our society. For autonomy: we're not going to interfere in the number of places of study, economics or content, but we're going to interfere in where hospitals, schools and universities are going, because it's about wanting to direct Norwegian policy and societal development in the future. That the government and the parties representing the government are not engaged in it must be their own responsibility. They go in with open eyes and now put down Nesna, despite the fact that people have stood up against this. And that's not what the government's parties say, that this is a university of poor quality. Here are employees and students who stand up and who have done good day's work. The Workers' Party is committed to facilitating universities and hospitals. We have court-martials that have said this, we have tax offices. This is about centralisation, it's about job creation around the country, it's about building up knowledge and experience around the country, which means people have to move away from there. Decentralized education, young people being able to choose education, are important for strengthening communities and for people having a job to go to. We as elected representatives have the ultimate responsibility, and we can do that by taking decisions here in the Storting and not ignoring people's opinions. I see that the time is running out, so I'd rather come back later.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e751	The representative, Martin Henriksen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e756	At some of the representatives of the government parties, it may be heard that the State does not govern higher education at all. It's at best a myth. You can, of course, take political responsibility if you do it right and tidy. What we haven't got a response to today is what the government thinks about the way forward for Helgeland and especially for the Nesna community. The Labour Party disagrees with what is now happening, but once the government and government parties have decided to reduce teacher training at Nesna, we believe that there should be some signals from the government and the ministry about whether they can do what they can to support the municipality and the rapporteur in putting in place other alternatives. This is a community that is hard hit, and the government must engage in dialogue with the municipality and be on the offer page to get activity at Nesna. What have governments and government parties thought about the way forward for this community? Will they set up, or will they not?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e765	The representative Siv Mossleth has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e770	Access to training in districts is, of course, district policy, but not district policy only for individual sites; it is a policy of value creation throughout the country. Everybody's working on it. I would like to stress that both the Nesna and the Sandness Lake are high-quality places of study. Councillor Trine Skei Grande explained the closure of Nesna that the place of study has very low applicants and difficulties in getting full-time students. There have not been many applicants for any of these sites, said the Council of State. That's not true. Nesna has a better candidate than Bodø for teacher training. It also applies to attendance, implementation and study satisfaction figures. There is a high-quality study site that is being shut down.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e779	The representative Guri Melby has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e784	In this debate, there's a picture that there's someone in this room who is for us to have access to education throughout the country, and that there's someone who isn't for it. I have to say that is an image that is very misleading. It is still possible to learn more than 30 places in Norway. At the same time, we know that what's considered one of the success factors behind it. Finnish school, is just that you have a few strong educational institutions. They are strong in research, and institutions have strong autonomy by being able to decide for themselves what are the right steps to take in order to get the development they need, both in terms of research and in terms of quality of education. I have to say I'm a little scared that there are so many on the red-green side that don't see this perspective at all. Of course, the government parties are for us to bet on the decentralised educational structure we have in Norway. That's why we've invested heavily in North University in the last year, with a strong supply of study places.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e793	It was a little short of time instead. The working party is committed to facilitating good interaction. Interaction is my integration Nils Arne Eggens postulate – using the good foot. This is very important in the context of structural reform, through which we have been through in the university sector – contributing to interaction and the use of good footings. When NTNU merged with the universities of Gjøvik and Ålesund — within, among others, ICT, real science, digital infrastructure and cybersecurity — it was not to wind up the study sites, but to strengthen the places of study and develop these environments together, and to contribute to the continuation, maintenance and quality of these areas. In Trøndelag we also have strong study sites not only in Trondheim, which is the big engine. We are totally dependent on having study places in Levanger, Namsos and Steinkjer to strengthen the region as a whole. It is then important not to go into and shut down major colleges and universities with such an infrastructure, but that the government is involved in strengthening these places, so that young people can study in their local environment, but of course have the opportunity to travel to other places in the country if they want to apply to other areas. As I said, having strong places of study is important, but when it comes to centralizing, there is no similarity between it and quality, neither within universities, hospitals, justice, etc. Here we have to bet on quality in the areas we have, and make sure that we do manage to maintain the places of study. The end of changing study services is one thing, but not by terminating study services, putting them down and relocating entire areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e805	I wanted to speak in this debate, because the struggle that people on the Nesna and Lake Sandness have waged to preserve the study facilities in the districts, and for the future of Helgeland, affects a lot, and it affects me. I was present at the Guards on the day the closure decision was made by the board of directors of the North University, and I saw what it meant to very many people who were there from the Nesna community and from the rest of Helgeland. I've seen how they've fought without really, I feel, to be taken seriously by the government, who's defended themselves with attempts at principle argumentation and thus overshadowed what's a very important political debate about the structure of Education Norway. Hiding behind the argument about the important principle of autonomy of educational institutions ignores what makes this case very special. One is that the future of the study offer in Helgeland was anchored in a merger agreement for which there were clear indications from this room, and which was anchored in a structural message that said very clearly that although there would of course be changes in the study offer around Norway, it was important to maintain the study sites and the basic structure of the decentralised education system we have in Norway. The second thing that the government always leaves to take seriously in this debate is the social responsibility that we believe our higher education institutions have to meet some social needs, where providing enough people for the basic functions of our welfare state and our education system in the future is one of the most basic. Then we know that the access of districts to professionals, for example. Nurses and teachers are closely related to where they are trained, and the current closure process is therefore going to make it more difficult to deal with the shortage of teachers in Northern Ireland and to provide the nursing staff needed in Helgeland. Autonomy does not mean that the leaders of institutions are exempt from that social responsibility, and it cannot mean that a Council of State could come here and say that this is not a political issue. The structure of Education Norway is, of course, a political theme, and the Stortinget is in its full right to put its foot down – and should do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e816	I understand that the representative Melby is a little annoyed that someone can perceive the Left as not being involved in education throughout the country because they are now giving a clear signal for the closure of Nesna. But it is true that we see it as part of a centralization, what is now happening, and also that it is in contradiction with what the government said when they carried out the structural reform, that is contrary to what is in the merger agreement. It's just a centralization. Then the representative shows Melby that Finland has chosen to have some strong institutions. There is just one of the problems: they have chosen it. This magnification has never really made a choice. The reason for this is that the government presented a structural reform in which the structure was most important, and where one did not discuss what objectives we should have for higher education, universities and higher education, in the years to come. Actually, we've never discussed professional training in particular and how we should organise it. We never took that debate, because the government started the structure, as they have so often done. And then they left the structure of the sector in the sea and said: Be so good, colleges and colleges, it's your sail that chooses who you join! So they let the randomness decide. We have never had a general debate on how we want the Norwegian university and higher education sector in terms of objectives and meaning, and especially in terms of professional training. It's actually so that it decided the NTNU government that time in 2015. Had it been made with one voice in the opposite direction, we might have been in a completely different situation in the area of structural reform. It was the one voice's obsessiveness in NTNU's regime that triggered these structural changes. This allowed the government, because they did not want to have a political debate on the structural changes – they would leave it to the maritime sector. I am very much in favour of having a discussion about objectives and meaning, quality and content, and also what we want with professional training in particular, i.e. the teacher's and nurse's education, the broad education. I also record today that the government obviously has no idea what the total education offer on Helgeland will be like in the future when Nesna is laid down, when Lake Sandness is closed down. Is there going to be something built up on Mo? Is the government going to be at all committed to building something on Mo, or is it just a board of directors, too? Is it all the way up to the board, too? I believe that one quite since the structural reform in 2015 has come out crooked. Today, it is Nesna who pays the price for it, and it seems the Center Party is sad.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e831	The representative Marit Knutsdatter Strand has had the word twice and gets the word for a short note, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e836	The debate is about landing. The arguments and the overall look I follow. The point is that the Center Party sees the consequences of these closures. We fear the consequences in the long term. We are based on experience from past closures and experience of the active policy pursued to establish the higher education institutions with their mandate for professional training spread throughout the country. What is happening today is almost historyless and undermines responsibility for the Storting, our responsibility as elected representatives. In fact, most of them establish themselves in the regions where they study. Now, Nesna and Lake Sandness lose their competence jobs and recruitment arenas for nurses and teachers. This is the seventh and last responsibility of the state to ensure. It is the Stortinget and we as elected representatives who must meet these peoples and explain why we believe that these places of study should not be maintained.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e845	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e862	At the request of the Education and Research Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Moreover, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the Government, and those who have to sign up to the speaking list in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e869	The Committee has been presented with a proposal from the Greens/Greens/EFA to introduce political strikes for school students. Students around the world have shown great commitment to climate change. The climate strike has been an international movement inspired by the Swedish Greta Thunberg, who started the protest movement when she started scolding the school and sitting in front of the Riksdag every Friday. By September 2019 at the latest, young people in 2,600 cities and 150 countries in what has been described as the world’s largest climate strike. Only in New York did 1.1 million students strike in front of the United Nations climate summit. The Committee welcomes the strong commitment to the climate that has spread in Norway. The fact that we have children and young people who participate and engage in the social debate is important for democracy and a very good sign for the future. The Committee shares many of the concerns of young people and agrees that the climate challenges require action by politicians. There are provisions in the absence regulation that say that absences can be eliminated in the context of ‘political work’. If the absence is to be exempted, it must be documented. In the case of absence for political reasons, this can be demonstrated by a political organisation. This derogation has been interpreted and practised differently in the past, so that students who have participated in political strikes have not, in some places, been given this absence as invalid. However, in the context of the climate strike on 22 March 2019, the Minister of Knowledge Jan Tore Sanner was out and clarified that strike does not give rise to valid absences, and thus is not subject to the rule of exception for political work. SV believes that the absence limit is an undue obstacle to the participation and involvement of young people in political work. Political strike is a democratic right for workers in Norway, and this should also apply to pupils. There Chancellor Angela Merkel hails the climate-stripping youth in Germany, and where the metropolitan city of New York gave 1.1 million students free to strike climate change, Norwegian school students meet with little understanding from the Norwegian government. I bring this up with the suggestions that SV is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e884	The representative of Mona Fagerås has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e889	My way into politics was as an activist. When I went to high school, I was against war, against racism, against new hydropower, against polluting gas power stations. It is possible that I was for something too, but I can't remember it completely on my feet. But as you understand, I believe in activism, I believe in strike, I believe in protests as an instrument, and we know that it works. The school strikes for climate work, it's just looking at the enormous global commitment and the support you've received. The strikes have moved the climate debate around the world, but also here in Norway. I fully agree with the school-stripping young people that it is urgent to solve the climate crisis. The extent of the strikes makes it absolutely impossible to ignore the demands of children and young people. And we have extremely bad time. We can no longer postpone the completely necessary transition, and I agree with the rapporteur that it is a good sign that young people are so many when they strike. It's a good sign for the future. In this case, I think there are three key questions. The first is the political demands made by the strikers. I very much agree with the demands that are being made. Climate change is the most important thing of our time. It has to be solved politically. I fully support that. The second is the place climate, environment and sustainability should have in education. There, I believe that the Storting and the government have now taken the right steps with the trade renewal, which ensures that precisely these themes are given an even greater place in education. We will take care of that and follow up on the Storting becomes a reality. I think that's very important. The latter is the question of whether there is a need to amend the absence code to facilitate this kind of political activity. The Labour Party does not see the same need as any of the other parties to change today's absence legislation. We think what is now, is good enough, and that the proposals put forward by the minority go too far in opening up to what political absences may be, for example, to refer to participation in strikes organized by other civil society organisations is to go too far and open too much up to other types of political absences than what you see today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e902	There is hardly any thing that pleases a elected politician more than that there is a burning commitment to key societal issues – that people are involved in the social debate, that they participate, that they say clearly from the point of view, that they provide politicians with insights and clear information about what they think is important for future policies in areas where they are affected. It is even better when the next generation of adults, perhaps the next generation of active politicians and members, and active in teams and organisations, are on the road. We need that, and our democracy needs that. The proposals in this case are about a desire to introduce the policy strike rate for school students on a general basis, but it is undoubtedly closely linked to the climate exposure that school students have shown recently. Both in the Green Party's proposal for a representative and in the comments in the Committee's position, the climate issue is the main one. It has been really inspiring and instructive to follow the climate exposure that has grown bigger and really big in recent years, not least in the youth. We need schoolchildren's impatience and clear voice in this matter. Climate change is one of our most important challenges, and here we need all generations to work together to succeed. Although the climate issue is important, there are also many other important and topical issues in which young people are and can become involved, including political ones. Therefore, opening up a strike as a valid absence could have quite a major and unfortunate impact on students’ presence at school. There is a reason why we introduced the absenteeism limit in high school, and that we are so concerned about getting as low an absence as possible in high school. It's a pleasure that the absenteeism works as well as it does, and that we see that the students are more present at school. Even more joyous is the fact that we see that they learn more, and that fewer falls away. Because it is a prerequisite for students to benefit from education that they are actually present at school and in education. For this reason, the rules of absence have come to be, and therefore it should not be opened up for the rules to be practised differently in different high schools, as I believe the proposal of the Central Party is being put forward. And therefore, in the Right-wing proposals, we do not support discrimination or anything that could lead to increased school absences. The young people's commitment to climate change and also to other political issues means a lot to our future. I believe, however, that some of the most important young people can contribute to, is being present at school in education, learning and gaining knowledge that can help to solve the major challenges of climate issues and in other matters in the future. I hope they continue to be clear, and I am absolutely convinced that they will be able to do well outside of school.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e913	In Norway, we are very lucky to have a good and free education offer. In fact, all in Norway have the right to education, and this is a good thing for which there is a cross-political agreement to be maintained. To call it being away from such a useful knowledge and welfare asset as the Norwegian school of strike is becoming very artificial for me. Permitting political strikes for school students will be unfortunate, as it opens up a number of future conflicts about which issues are worth fighting for at school. I hear people say, exactly your case is special and must get exceptions. Well, we have a number of different societal issues that young people engage in, such as: The rights of homosexuals, aid, nuclear weapons, refugee policy, immigration — to name a few. Are students to be absent from education because they are in favour or against receiving more refugees, for or against oil extraction, for or against windmills, for or against nuclear weapons, for or against aid? I don't think this should qualify for valid absence either, because we can't put different societal exposures up against each other based on what we prefer ourselves. We have to think more in principle about those questions. We cannot have double standards where we accept absence for one good cause, but not for others. We're going to have to equal it. The legislation must then be strictly practised, otherwise there can be a terrible amount of absence for many good purposes, and absence must be reduced. If we're to shape a better society, we need tomorrow's engineers, biologists, physicists and economists to be even better than the ones we have today. Then the school is the right place to be. School is not an obstacle to engagement. However, when some students choose to be away from school, it is quite right that they have to take the consequences of it in terms of illegal absence. It is important to facilitate the participation of young people in policy activities. This is a broad political consensus and therefore good arrangements are already in place today to ensure a valid absence for political organised involvement. Engaging in organisations and political parties will be better than missing out on education, for the last time only on exams. Political parties have an influence on what they are meant to be and on what policies are to be pursued. By participating in democratic elections – whether we stand for elections ourselves or only use the ballot box – one is involved in determining the policy to be pursued. Policies are determined by those present, and unfortunately young people are the worst at meeting in the polls. I will end with a quote from the Council of State, Jan Tore Sanner. He said, ‘I would encourage all young people to engage in important political issues, but I would not encourage any students to be away from training.’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e935	It must be in the gallery!
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e944	I have to ask for the gallery to be cleaned.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e950	Political commitment is something we have to take care of and appreciate. Talking in the Stortingen is unfortunately limited to the representation of the Stortingen. The world is changing, and we need to cheer on those who are seeking knowledge and debate to influence the world around them. We as elected voters must also be a speaker on behalf of the many strong voices that are out there. The exposure to the climate issue is strong and has been strong for a long time. The difference now is that today's young people feel that enough is enough. We no longer hold informed debates and letters of readers – now we have to act. The international wave of demonstrations and demands for action can be thanked by Greta Thunberg. The influence of elected representatives shall be possible for all. When young people now say that they have to leave their daily work and meet up where the politicians are, we have to go in and ask ourselves if we, as politicians, are listening well enough to the recordings we get. As late as September 2019, young people in 2,600 cities and 150 countries were out on the world's biggest climate strike. We must not rebel with absenteeism rules and requirements – we must listen to them. The best school we all go to is life's school. There is no doubt that school and learning are the things that rigged children and young people to meet further education and working life. But the road to a full life I believe also contains some detours and blindways. Absence rules shall be able to escape when such sidings can contribute to students’ learning beyond what you can experience in the classroom or in ordinary education. Absence up to 10 p.m., including Policy work was included, interpreted as the basis for providing students with more places of absence, but then the Minister of Knowledge put an end to this. Teaching the students misses, they have to take back on their own responsibility. The centre party believes there must be room to give students valid absence for political engagement, including political climate strike. The centre party considers that the authority to approve absences should lie with the individual school and that there should not be a general strike, as in proposal 1 of the representative proposal. Today's rules of absence must not restrict students' ability to engage politically, and we therefore support proposal No. 2, delimited to organised markings. The general rule will continue to be present at school. The strike hasn't gone as far as Pink Floyd's song, which says, "We don't need no education". The critics can take it easy. It is fine to support proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e967	I'm cheering on the climate strikers. Climate change is the greatest threat we and the world face, and it's about ensuring that we have a living earth, air that's not dangerous to breathe in, water that plants and animals can live in, and temperatures that make our nature and seasons more or less recognizable. It is very good that children and young people get involved in a matter that is so important for their future, and they should be told clearly from when it is such a big thing that it is primarily those who have to bear the consequences of. I agree with what my party leader Trine Skei Grande said, that she hoped that the schools would ensure that students taking part in a climate strike were not absent. The left believes that children and young people have the right to engage. They have a right to say their opinion. That is why we are also in favour of 16-year-old voting. We believe it would be fair for young people to have a greater place in democracy when so many of the decisions we are making have a major impact on their future. My experience is that young people are often a little bit tougher than adults, they look a little bit longer in time, and they make decisions that are based not primarily on their own comfort here today, but on our common opportunities and future. Therefore, the Left was also against the national absenteeism limit when it was proposed. We think it should be up to the schools and teachers to decide how much absence the students can have before it goes beyond schoolwork. Now, when it comes to evaluating the absence limit, we think it's also natural once to look at what kind of exceptions you're giving. It must be possible to engage politically and voluntarily without the school punishing one for that. In principle, it should be the opposite. We're going to train active fellow citizens, and social inclusion should be a positive thing that is actually rewarded. Nevertheless, we in the Left do not believe that a statutory strike right is necessary. Students have the right to go to school, and they can't be thrown out of school because they strike the climate. It is not entirely comparable to the situation in the labour market. You don't risk your income, you really risk very little if you strike without this strike right. For higher education I think we should look at the absenteeism limit when it is evaluated, and we are open to making a new assessment of this issue then. There were some of us who started the day at a seminar in the Ministry of Knowledge on democracy and citizenship in school. Striking students are a good example of students who exercise fundamental rights, such as freedom of expression and the right to demonstrate and gather, and who try to influence decision-makers as well. These are students who are really fellow citizens, who are involved and take responsibility for the community. At the seminar, it was said that it is important for students to experience hearing, that they must know on the body that democracy actually works. Then I think it's more important that we listen to their climate requirements than that we introduce the strike.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e982	We in the Christian People's Party are pleased that we have climate-conscious young people who are looking for new solutions to today's great challenge. They are courageous and unreasonable, but most of all they are committed to climate change and sustainability for the future. They engage in the social debate, and in this way they also strengthen our democracy. We applaud that in the Christian People's Party. The representative seeks to change the rules on absenteeism in Norwegian schools by changing what we call the derogation today. I believe it is important that we, as politicians, should facilitate the participation of engaged young people in political activity, but that there are today arrangements to ensure that there is a valid absence for politically organised work, within today's regulations. For this reason, it is also important that we do not seek to fill the exemption clause with the exception of which it may be difficult to have a clear common understanding or which, for some, could have a negative impact on students’ presence at school. We have a clear goal in Norwegian school to reduce absenteeism in the training course. If you give a right to training, you are expected to prepare for your education. This believes that the Christian People’s Party must be clearly communicated through the school’s rules of absence. At the same time, students are different, and there are different reasons why students are away from education: social challenges, bullying, problems at home, mental problems or difficulties in coping with the transition from high school to high school. The Christian People's Party believes it is important that we do not have fragmented rules of absence, but a regulation of absence that respects good learning and not least has clear clarifications of expectations – a regulation that cannot be interpreted for differences, depending on which school or teacher to determine whether the absence is inside or outside. It may be easy to allow valid absences on a general basis because of political strikes. There are a number of major policy issues that can involve children and young people. Opening up political strikes as a valid absence could have a negative impact on the presence of some students at school, as well as an easily emerging problem of interpretation. The Christian People's Party is therefore concerned that this government should focus on absenteeism and non-response throughout the training cycle. We have also shown this through the introduction of the teaching norm, with many more teachers in primary school, and with both the early input message Tight on and the trade renewal that this government is now implementing. We believe that an extension of the derogation to include political strikes will create ambiguities and the basis for major interpretation challenges. Nor do we believe that the continuation of today's regulations will dampen the youth's motivation and desire and the ability to engage politically.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e997	In March, 40,000 Norwegian students were fighting for climate change. If they hadn't risked being punished for meeting up, there might be even more. Climate strikes have so far mobilized millions of young people in more than 150 countries and 2,600 cities around the world. Some patient school strikers are also in the gallery today. Climate has become our great generational struggle. Children and young people strike because their future, opportunities and well-being are in our hands. Most students do not have the right to vote, but will be hit harder by climate policy than the adults who have power in society today. This is not the first time in history any struggles for extended rights for a new group in society. Nor is it the first time in history the majority answers by claiming that it is not necessary or that new rights would be abused. Just as a long time ago thought that women did not need to vote because their needs were well cared for by men, so now one assumes that the interests of young people are well cared for by adults. I can reveal that I don't mean it. I mean the adults in this room fail the young in several cases, not just in terms of climate. I don't think it's about evil will, but I think it's about children and young people being a group that has weak political rights today. Political strike is a strong tool. If you use it often, it loses its power, so saying that the strike right would lead to a lot of absence, is to assume that students do not have legitimate political reasons to strike, but that they themselves will be willing to undermine their own democratic instruments. The rules of today’s political absence are strict and require a special type of youth to join political organisations. It does not hold that one stands up for one’s rights once in a while in particularly important cases. We in the Greens believe that 16-year-olds should have had the right to vote. It was downhearted. Nor does it seem that the majority of students will be able to organise political strikes through the arena where all young people today meet each morning and are already organised, namely at school and through student democracy – despite the fact that both the Student Organisation and the National Association of Schools support our proposal. Instead, the majority today ask these young people to sit tight with their hands in prison and wait until they become 18 years old to claim their rights, while they have to watch politicians make short-term decisions that affect more than anyone else, whether they are about climate, teachers or safer school roads. This year, hundreds of years have passed since Norway’s poorest people also received voting rights. The hall here should have marked it by expanding our democracy, not by voting it down.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e1014	There is a broad political consensus that we should facilitate children and young people to express their opinions and that they should be heard. It is therefore important that the Training Act states that ‘students should have co-responsibility and the right to participation’. Students have the right to be heard. Student councils and school selections are examples of venues where students can influence their own school everyday life. It also allows students to be politically active in addition to matters directly related to everyday school life. Students in secondary school may, among other things: to obtain exceptions from the absence limit for absences in political work. In connection with the previous climate demonstrations, I have made it clear that participation in student strikes will not normally be covered by the exemption for political work. However, the specific assessment must be made by the county or school. The proposer shall express his opinion, inter alia: that the right to organise and organise and participate in political strikes without any kind of punishment or reprisal is a central institution of Norwegian democracy. To that I would like to point out that we in no way punish students who strike, but it is important to have rules of absence that have consequences for students with undocumented absences. If we look at the world of work, it is also not free from political strikes without consequences. When a worker is absent from work because of a political strike, it usually leads to wages and salaries. It is therefore not unique for high school students that political strikes have consequences. The issue of absenteeism in the school for participation in climate strike should not be a derailment from the important environmental and climate debate, where young people are drivers. It is important to have engaged children and young people. I hope that young people will continue to engage, both in the environment and in other important policy issues. Fortunately, in well-developed democracy Norway, young people can be heard, both in school and in leisure. A strike rate for students is not the way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e1025	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e1030	It is interesting to hear the council say that it is the county councils that will finally decide on the individual case. Absent rules open to recognise political commitment as a valid absence. Several schools allowed this until the Council of State put an end to it. So several schools changed practice after the Council of State played out. I wonder what made the Council of State take a different view from that of more schools, and why the Council of State saw the need to go out and override local discretion — even though it may now seem as if there is still a room for action — and yet think something about the practice of schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e1035	I believe it is quite natural that I, as the State Council of the Ministry of Knowledge, express what is the general rule of absence from school and what consequences it should have. I have said the same all the way in this case, that strike as a rule will not be covered by the exemption for political work, but that it is the county council and the school that must ultimately make that assessment. I believe that it has been necessary to prepare it, and I have also been registered to have wanted it from the schools themselves – that you should know what the guidelines are.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e1040	I think there is a need to expand and develop democracy. The President-in-Office had some good points in his speech at the opening of the 164th big thing, among other things. that democracy is now under pressure, from, for example: false news and onlineness. Then we have to build it out so it stands out well, even in the face of such threats. A common goal that I think we all share is for more young people to participate in democracy. At the local elections in 2011 and 2015, there was a probationary system for 16- and 17-year-olds in 20 test municipalities. The scheme was successful, with high electoral participation and good information dissemination. Nevertheless, the government would not continue the scheme, and now they will not allow young people to participate in democracy by strike. When the government says no to both of these good and reliable measures, what is the government going to do to increase youth participation in democracy?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e1049	Let me first say that I agree that we should both develop and strengthen democracy and that the voice of young people is important. What this issue is about is whether there should be no consequences if high school students make a political strike. The question is, what are we going to do with absenteeism rules if undocumented absences do not have consequences? The fact that you get undocumented absences by taking part in a political strike does not mean that you deprive someone of a right to say what you mean or to participate in democracy. We are now strengthening the work of democracy in school through the new curricula, where democracy and citizenship become an important cross-cutting issue. It's about critical thinking, it's about professional knowledge, and it's about being trained for political debate and dissent.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e1056	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I am happy to hear that we share this wish. I still think there is a little lack of action, and the question of what to do with the rules of absence, I think we all understand is a derailment from the debate. Mr. Sanner said in his main speech that the Board of Students was a good input to democracy. I fully agree with that, but I may feel that the student board instead of having a big real impact, almost more is a springboard. It has little real power, but many from the Board choose to move on to engage in organisations and youth parties, where they have more real influence. We've also seen that with these recent student strikes. The Council of State hopes that the students will continue to engage, but how will this happen when they do not get this strike right?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e1066	What this issue is about is whether a political strike should have consequences. That's the way it is in the world of work. If you go into a political strike, it has a consequence for the striker. Similarly, it has to be in high school. If a student or student group goes into a political strike, there must also be some consequences. I am glad if the SV has now become too absent. This was not the case when the government implemented the absence limit, when almost a total opposition was opposed — i.e. The working party was both a bit for and against, but the rest of the opposition was strongly against the absence limit. The point is that if you're in favour of the absence limit, you also have to have some consequences if you have undocumented absences. But I can delight the representative that in a week, or a little less than a week, the new curriculum comes where we renew the content of the school. Then democracy and citizenship will be a recurring theme, and we will strengthen students' involvement in school and also their ability to participate in the social debate outside school.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e1075	In a democracy, it is a pretty good principle, when it comes to extending rights to new groups, that it is those who want to prevent it, who have the burden of proof. So the question should not be whether a new group needs this political right, but whether one can defend them from having it. I hear with interest the Council of State's argument, because what the Council of State is concerned about is undocumented absence. But an established right to organised political strike is the opposite. It's a strike where you can document, where students can say that they want to be on this strike because they want to give a signal to the authorities that this matter is important to their generation or to those as a student group – it can be about a lot of different issues. Therefore, I wonder why, because the reason is that the Council of State does not want the undocumented absence. How could an organized school strike be a problem for undocumented absences?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e1082	These are the guidelines that have been drawn up: participation in a political strike will initially not be covered by the exemption for political work. It will depend on the role of the individual in this, and that is why we are clear that it must ultimately be the county council and the school that assesses it. However, this boils down to the seventh and last point, whether it is meant to be a rule of absence or not, and what consequences it should have if you have undocumented absences. As I replied to the SV representative, it is also in the working life that if you carry out a political strike, it has some consequences. This must also be the case in school: if you implement a political strike and have undocumented absences, it will have a consequence.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e1089	Yes, the consequence for the students is that they miss education. So we don't trust the students themselves to want education, even if for example. The student organisation – which has been present at the gallery here today – supports a formal organised right to strike for school students and is an organisation working for a better school for students. I also believe that the Training Act is very clear on the broad social mission of the school. § 1-1 states that students are entitled to co-responsibility and participation, and the purpose of the Training Act states the following: ‘Students and learners shall develop knowledge, skills and attitudes to master their lives and to participate in work and community life.’ As I hear the Council of State now, he believes that it is only going to happen within the school's four walls. I think it's a very big misunderstanding. I think one of the most important things we learn from the students is that by using their voice, they can achieve changes in society.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e1101	I think we totally agree on that, but it's also a time after school. It's not like you just have to express your opinions in school, it's also like you have the opportunity to participate in political activity both before and after school. What's the school's mission is that it should both form and educate. It is important that students get good knowledge, but also that we develop students who are both safe and able to become active participants in our society. That's what we want, and it's going to happen within the school. Of course, the answer is to the question of confidence that students want to learn. But we have also seen that the rule of absence has been absolutely necessary. Since we introduced the rule of absence, absence has fallen sharply. The students are more present at school, and I think that's good.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e1108	I very much disagree that this is a discussion and a problem that is primarily about attitudes to the absence limit, because the absence limit is going to deal with a lot of different reasons why students are away from school. I believe that this debate is about political rights for children and young people, and especially young people, who do not yet have the right to vote. What I think is essentially interesting, is that society tells the students that they have a duty to meet up at school. So there's already some requirements there for the students. So the question is, are you going to give them a right to use the requirement they have against them, to sometimes strike, in the few cases where a student council or an entire student organisation is able to agree on a matter that is so important to their generation that they want to announce strikes? I think that would have happened quite rarely, because it's a right that it's very stupid to abuse, and in that case you would undermine the very instrument. But I think there's something that would have made us here in the hall much clearer when there's a generation conflict in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e1115	I feel that we are being very clearly informed, even if we have not introduced such a type of strike ticket that gives us the right to document this absence. You can discuss this as a fundamental question, and I think that's interesting, but you can also discuss it in a practical way, and then the question is, where are you going to put the limit? Is it that there has to be a great deal of excitement about this strike? Is this something that must have support in the Board, as the representative now pointed out? Where should the limit go if political strikes are first to give students the right, without exception, to have it documented as absence? These questions must also be answered if you are to move in the way the representative wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e1122	Replicate cord shift complete. The following speakers also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e1129	The world looks different now than it did just a year ago. The fact that we have to make significant changes in society in order to prevent the worst climate change has gone from being a pretty niche-thinking to being something most fully agree with. Consumers, private business and politicians are becoming more and more concerned about how we can deal with a crisis that is so big that it threatens our whole life base. The young climate strikers who have dropped out of education to protest against their future being destroyed have changed the world with full force. Many millions of young people have promoted the same message worldwide. The message to the climate strikers is based on knowledge and solid research. The requirements they have set have been reasonable and necessary. Those demands are going to win because they're finally getting the place in society that they should have been far too far away. I was so lucky to participate in the distribution of the Free Word Prize, which Greta Thunberg and Nature and Youth were awarded earlier this year for their contribution to making the climate and environment debate action-oriented and mobilizing. It struck me that that's exactly what we've been trying on for many years, this by getting the climate and environmental debate to be precisely action-oriented and mobilizing. But we haven't made it clear – not until now, not before Greta Thunberg finally found the tool that worked and that really hit, but not everyone has the same access to. The different schools around the country have had different practices in calculating absence of climate strikes. That is why we need to establish the right of strike in school as a right and as a democratic principle. We cannot allow ourselves to miss the voices of the students who are actually changing the world. The climate strike movement we've seen in the last year has been unparalleled. But I can come up with one other matter that – not having the same international dimension – was strongly marked, namely the student strike against the border of absence, which was a protest against the fact that there was less opportunity to engage politically without being punished for it. We're lucky to have an active and highly competent civil society in Norway that makes democracy contain a lot more than just what's going on in the Great Britain and in other elected bodies. That's the way it should be, but we can't take for granted that it continues if we don't fix it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e1144	With beaks and claws, the government parties defend the limit of absence, both when it leads to our most vulnerable students having a longer and heavier way to complete the school, and now, when the same parties vote against introducing a strikeright for school students. It looks like government parties are using the absenteeism limit to suffocate the climate strike. Clearly, they find the students ’ criticism unpleasant. When young people around the world do their best to face the climate crisis, they should be grateful – not punished – for taking care of our planet and our future. As I said in my first post, the Minister of Knowledge, on the occasion of the climate strike, on 22 March, clarified that strike does not give rise to valid absences, and thus is not subject to the rule of exception for political work because strike should have consequences, and that there will be no strike if students are given valid absences. These are a little long-term arguments. The existence of documentation requirements for absences above 10 pst. in a single subject to become a professional, is not the same as giving students freedom from education. Not unlike the way we practice it in the workplace, students will meet at their place of work — the school — and participate in the teaching for the number of hours required by the law. The consequences of absenteeism have been lost education, which in that case students have to take up on their own responsibility. A few hours of absence to participate in a political strike is therefore not free of charge for the students, but it is totally unreasonable that this absence should involve the loss of a year’s schooling. This can ultimately be the result for some students. These outcomes of today’s absenteeism are in stark contrast to other involuntary loss of education to which high school students are exposed. Children and young people's voices deserve to be heard. The democratic rights of children and young people must be respected. The political commitment of children and young people should be supported – not punished.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e1155	We had instead a discussion that was about whether to have this on a principle or a practical level. I think the principal might be most important, because the practical would have to be investigated. If you agree with the principle – that the political rights of children and young people are too weak today, that the right to strike should have been confirmed, and that you should not have a personal cost of showing a strong political commitment to matters where the student democracy points out that this is important for our generation or for us as a group of students – I would recommend that you vote in favour of the proposal, and it will have to be investigated. Neither are any of those who have now been critical of the proposal, who have responded to a proposal to investigate, so I think there is a lot of evidence to suggest that the practical arguments against this proposal are substitutive because, in principle, they do not really want to introduce new political rights for this group. Young people can get involved, they can choose to go into youth parties or other political organisations, but when this hall refuses young people to strike, the Storting also fails to acknowledge that very many major issues today are a conflict between generations — and climate is just one example of it. If that is the delimitation of the right of a political strike you are concerned about, I would recommend to the committee to come back and ask for an investigation. I can report that I believe this will be a matter that comes up regularly in the future, I will attend to it and take care of it. I think that, as in very many other debates on new political rights for new groups, one has to agree because one cannot defend not granting a political right to a group. I think we're going to be left with that this makes as much sense as introducing voting rights for all the poor in Norway, as we did 100 years ago, or for all the women, as we did in 1913.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e1165	The representative of Bastholm is trying to record that we should also look at this in principle, and I believe that we do. One thing is the practical consequences of the absence limit, but basically it's possible to be heard even if you don't just speak in school. It is possible to be engaged even if you do not have to leave school in order to participate in activities. It doesn't know at least all of us who have been local politicians for very many years, and used by our leisure time just to influence political processes and be engaged. As far as the representative is concerned – now it’s quite silent – Mona’s argument that this is an attempt to choke the climate strike: honestly, it’s really not. For us, it's incredibly important that the students are present at school. It is important for students to receive the training they require. And where should the limit go – if we're back on the practical? My associate Roy Steffensen of the Progress Party took up a lot of things that I think are also important political issues, which I know that the young people are engaged in, and I can well imagine that they could imagine doing influential activity for. Is it really such that there is only one thing that it should be allowed to be engaged in, and that should give political strike? I don't think so, so I really think that the system we have now allows young people to be heard. This is not a question of voting rights for the poor or not. Knowledge is important, it is incredibly important that young people receive the education they need. If they receive the training they require, they should also be present at school. Let them get the training they need, let them get the skills they need to pursue the policy, to get the good solutions, which can provide good solutions to the climate strike, but also to other policy challenges. I have strong faith that the youth can manage to be heard even if they do not take time off in the middle of school to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e1174	I would like to take a brief look at the Sanner State Council statement from earlier today, where – perhaps on purpose – he misunderstood my understanding of the rules of absence, that I am in favour of the national and rigid limit of absenteeism imposed by his government. The statement was that the absence limit has been successful, and that is a conclusion that I do not agree with. I think that just looking at some numbers in a statistics that absence has gone down a little bit and then concluding that the absence limit is successful is a way too easy to do it. For this national, rigid and square border of absenteeism that we have today, I believe that I am helping to show a serious distrust of the country's teachers and students. The limit of absenteeism we have today is a good way to suspect students for no reason, and to suspect teachers not being able to judge for themselves – with their discretion – in different situations where the limit goes for when students have been so much away that they should not have the character of a profession. I'm so sorry about the lack of trust in people, that you can't interpret people in the best sense and have faith that students are at school when they can be at school, but for different reasons it doesn't always work, and that the teacher knows their students and even knows when they've been away enough that they shouldn't get a grade. I think that's a crazy way of governing the country, that you have such a need for control that you have to cut through every little situation and think that you have one solution that suits everyone, and it's all going to have to follow, without those in the local situation, those who actually live that life, being allowed to know best what's best for them.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e1181	The President would like to remind the representative that today's debate applies to the right of absence of strike.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e1186	A wave has crossed the country in the last year – a wave of climate-stripping young people, of children and young people who are rightly deeply concerned about their and our common future. In the years ahead, we're going to see new climate-stripping students. Regardless of what the Storting decides for today, students — children and young people — will take to the streets to show what they think about the irresponsible climate policy being pursued. Our democratic rights are based on struggle – fighting to extend these democratic rights year after year, whether there have been women's voting rights, poor voting rights or workers' strike rights. All along, there have been arguments that people can use different methods and other times to promote their vision. I am convinced that the young people who have been fighting and who are going to strike in the years to come have learned a lot – not only about climate change, but also about our democracy, about the construction of our society and how to best influence us as politicians. From my own experience, as a representative without special education other than high school, I dare dare to venture the claim that I have learned as much of my commitment to the environmental movement as in school. The school has been important, but stimulating commitment even in school and beyond is absolutely essential for our democracy to remain alive, and for us to give our citizens even better democratic rights. That's why we're going to vote for the introduction of a strike ticket for school students.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e1195	The representative of Une Bastholm has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e1200	Both the representative Steffensen of the Progress Party and the representative Kristensen have expressed concern about how to define matters. I think that is very important that the Storting should not think anything about it. We are the ones who sit and have power today. We're just going to decide whether this group should have a political right to define for itself issues that they call for. It will be the student democracy that in that case decides that now a matter is so important to them as a student group – it can be about teacher density – or for them as a generation – it can be about climate – that they want to arrange a political strike for it. It'll have to be organized, by registering, and the whole of the sulmite, which makes this organized. I think that also comes up a little bit on the second question that has come up, about why this must happen at school. Well, because every youth can get involved in leisure, but then you do it as an individual and not as a student group. This is about mobilizing the pupil democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e1209	The representative Turid Kristensen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e1214	The point of presenting the challenges with the limitations is just to show the extent to which this can be achieved, because it cannot be that there is only one case that should have given such a strike. The point is that when it gets on a large scale, it can be on a large scale, it's about students missing out on important teaching time, important time in school to get what they're going through. The representative of Fagerås – whom I now remember – pointed out that you didn't miss teaching, but you do, because even if you have to take back and read, you miss the teacher's teaching time, and it's valuable to the students. Yeah, if you do it in your spare time, you do it as a private person. I too, as a local politician, did it in leisure, but as a local politician for an organization, for a party. There's nothing wrong with the student organisations being able to arrange things even outside of school, so I think we should encourage commitment, but not in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e1223	The representative of Solveig Skaugvoll Foss has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e1228	Here I believe that once again we come to the core of the matter, namely trust in people, a belief that the student himself knows his own best, and what she or he will spend time standing up for. The representative Kristensen has many good points about what is worth our time. We all agree that learning and democracy are important. The students themselves also know that both of these things are important. We have to trust and trust enough that these students can decide for themselves and take this balance, and give them a real choice as to what they think is best for themselves to spend their time on.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e1235	This is a matter that is also about trust in today’s young people – trust in the students who are going to school today. We have today an opportunity for young people who are part of a political party, which is part of an environmental organisation, to get political absence from school. We also trust that the young people will acquire the knowledge they may miss when they are away at these political meetings, at a later stage. I trust those young people who fought a climate strike in Norway earlier this year. I trust the young people who are going to strike the climate in the years to come, trust both in the fight they are fighting, and that they will acquire the knowledge they might miss by participating in these demonstrations. Then I record that not everyone in the room has that confidence in today's students. I think that's a shame.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e1243	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox Case No. Five to seven will be treated one below.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e1284	No one has asked for the floor. The map has thus been debated for today. The store is taking a break, and according to the announced agenda it will be voting at 0 p.m. 15th
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e1307	The Stortinget is then ready to go to voting on the matter on today's map. The appointed alternate of Akershus, Mani Husseini, takes no seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e1459	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e1470	The law decision is taken until a second time at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e1482	A total of ten proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's publisher No 1, from Marit Arnstad on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposed no. 2 and 3, from Marit Arnstad on behalf of the Labour Party and the Centre Party proposal No 4, from Marit Arnstad on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party proposed no. 5-7, from Marit Arnstad on behalf of the Centre Party proposal No 8, from Mona Fagerås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposed no. 9 and 10, from the Bears Moxnes on behalf of Red
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e1506	Proposal No. 10 from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to waive responsibility for higher education at Helgeland and to restore the education services at Helgeland by assigning responsibility to another university.’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e1521	Proposal No. 9, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to stop the construction process at the Nesna campus and to ensure that students admitted to Nesna continue their education on Nesna without interruption.’ The Group of the Party of European Socialists and the Greens/European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e1538	Proposal No. 8, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to present a comprehensive plan for the future structure of higher education in Norway.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e1555	Proposal No. 7 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for changes in the funding system and for introducing incentives for decentralised study services requested by regional employment and business.’ The Socialist Left has already given its support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e1573	Proposal No. 5 and 6 from the Center Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The budget requests that decisions on the winding-up of study places by the individual institutions in the UH sector be submitted to the Executive Board for final treatment.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The size calls on the government regularly, and at least once in each growing period, to provide the Stortinget with an analysis of the impact of the funding system on the structure of the sector in terms of both study places and courses.’ The Socialist Left and Red have already supported the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e1597	Proposal No. 4, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to stop the adopted change in student location structure, at the Nesna campus and nursing training in Lake Sandness, at the North University.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e1614	Proposal No. 2 and 3 from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for safe teacher training at Nesna, inter alia, by ensuring financial space for training through study places, recruitment positions and enhanced budget.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asking, in the context of the announced review of higher education governance principles, to ensure that the objectives of regional responsibility and equal access to higher education are strengthened throughout the country and followed up by the educational institutions.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals. The Socialist Left has already received subsidized support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e1640	Proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for follow-up to the higher education structural message with a plan to strengthen the regional role of the places of study and describing how to strengthen broad professional training and practical research in order to ensure access to decentralised education across the country. Future higher education at Nesna shall be part of the plan.» The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e1664	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e1683	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Mona Fagerås on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Mona Fagerås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals with rules and frameworks for the introduction of strikerights for school students, so that student councils and student organisations can organise and encourage political strikes.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e1709	Proposal No. 1, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to change the rules of absence at school so that documented participation in political strikes organised by student councils, student organisations or other civil society organisations is to be considered as political absences.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e1733	The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e1745	Case No. 5–7 are the second processing of legal acts and debts of Acts 2 up to and including 4. There are no comments suggested. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been accepted for the second time and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-12.ana.ud510e1790	Thus, today's maps are processed. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
